ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to culture (No 3399, Annexes 11 and 12; No 3459, Volume I). Mrs Dominique David, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u3	This is almost a truism, and it is not to be welcomed: culture is among the sectors that pay the brunt of the crisis. And the reconfinition, if it remains justified by a very degraded health situation, brings it another blow, terrible. In our country, which carries its cultural exception on a banner and gives from the Enlightenment a central place to culture as a factor of emancipation, this situation, of course, obliges us. The cultural sector was supported last spring; It is today and will continue to be in 2021, "whatever it costs." These are not just words: the finance bill – PLF – demonstrates a clear and unwavering commitment of the state to the world of culture. The three programmes in my report are up 4.5%, an increase of almost EUR 100 million at constant scope. To this significant increase are added the 228 million of the recovery plan in 2021. This is a considerable effort. This year, 400 million more payment appropriations than last year are spent on culture, not to mention the common law arrangements and emergency support put in place in 2020, such as the live show support fund and the festival fund. Let's go into detail. For live entertainment and visual arts, program 131, "Creation", there are 37 million more in the PLF 2021 to support investment expenditures, artistic networks in the territory as well as the national fund for sustainable employment in the show, the FONPEPS, which increases from 17 million to 22 million. And 2021 will also – finally, I want to say – be the first year of implementation of the artist-author plan, for a better defence of the interests of artists, their social rights, their representativeness. With regard to the recovery plan, 168 million will be allocated in payment appropriations for creation: 82 million to help public operators who depend heavily on their own resources, such as the Opéra de Paris – but that is 60% of the envelope –, 53 million for the structures of the show living labeled or private in the territories, 10 million for the ecological transition. Finally, 33 million will make it possible to undertake a major plan of public orders and emergency measures for young artists. Reinvigoration of demand for creators, support for artistic networks in the territories, ecological modernisation of structures, assistance in structuring employment and defending the interests of artists: the PLF 2021 addresses all the issues of creation. The priority which the President of the Republic intends to give to the transmission of knowledge and to cultural democratization is illustrated by the effort made on programme 361. This programme is €750 million, an increase of 6%. A clearer distribution of the Ministry's operating expenditures and the spending on cultural democratization on two different programs will ensure that these appropriations are sanctified. It was imperative. The new delegation would pay particular attention to the Territories. I'm very pleased with that. I am thinking in particular of the monitoring of festivals, which should be strengthened. Financial as well as political support for festivals is crucial: they play a structuring role in their territory. Very fragile, they are the prey of concentration manoeuvres that are likely to accelerate in the wake of the crisis. We must protect them, it is a matter of cultural sovereignty. I welcome, in this context, the holding of the general states of the festivals, which participate in this political recognition which our festivals so much need. Among the new measures, an additional €20 million will go to the culture pass. This device, it is true, has experienced a difficult start. Experimentation, in departments scattered throughout the country, did not help in its proper identification. But the balance sheet is improving, the activation rate is constantly increasing. And contrary to what one might think, the share of digital is less than 30% of young people's purchases. We have the means to generalize the device to give it its full power. It is necessary to do so in order to increase the access of our young people to culture and thus indirectly support the cultural actors in our territories, who suffer so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u4	Mr Gilles Carrez, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u5	[[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Some say that a good budget is an increasing budget. In these circumstances, Madam Minister of Culture, the budget of the "Heritage" programme is a very good budget: 1.36 billion euros, 36% increase, this is never seen. The Committee on Finance approved it and, as the Special Rapporteur, I gave a favourable opinion when, as you know, for more than twenty-five years I have been fighting against public expenditure in this House. But the health crisis justifies this increase because the crop is hit hard. Our heritage, museums, historical monuments, our great establishments, Versailles, the Louvre, Pompidou, Orsay, suffer, like companies, a haemorrhage of resources – ticketing of visitors, space rental, sponsorship or various commercial activities. For more than 20 years, however, public authorities have sought to develop their own resources to support the financing of national heritage. It is a good policy, which must be pursued, but the health crisis calls into question this model. It is therefore legitimate for public authorities, starting with the State, to come to the rescue and support our heritage, whether public or private. The recovery plan is therefore fully implemented in safeguarding our heritage. Normal appropriations are up 4.5% to more than 1 billion, but the Recovery Plan mission provides an additional €344 million in payment appropriations in 2021 and, above all, a commitment authorisation of €614 million. At two-thirds, the stimulus funds support our major heritage institutions, especially those affected by the collapse of international tourism, such as the Louvre, Versailles or Orsay. These large cultural institutions suffer a total shock of almost 300 million euros, offset by the recovery plan, which allows them to remain open and to continue to invest, unlike some countries where many institutions have closed, for example in the United States and the United Kingdom. The second package of loans for the recovery concerns investment, with various envelopes, totalling 280 million over two years. First of all, I would like to point out the aid to the local authorities who own museums or historical monuments. Similarly, the appropriations of the cathedral plan will more than double in two years. On the occasion of this plan, we parliamentarians must be very vigilant about monitoring and evaluation. These appropriations must be used properly. There will be organizational problems to address security issues as a matter of priority and to coordinate all stakeholders, in liaison with the affective clergy. The grand five-year presidential project, Villers-Cotterêts, received EUR 100 million, one third of the recovery plan. It is not because the work derails, but because the private funding and sponsorship that were planned are not at the rendezvous, which one can understand. The State must therefore compensate. Unprotected heritage will continue to benefit from the lottery with the Bern mission. The 2020 edition is expected to earn around €20 million as in other years. You are lucky, Madam Minister, because this year we will not have the controversy about the compensation of the lotto tax, since it is already acquired with the use of the appropriations put in reserve. A word about the Navy Hotel, because I think it's going to be a great success. The assembly is very interesting. The budget – 115 million euros – was held, with only 10 million public loans and 80 million borrowed from commercial revenues, including offices. I invite you to visit it; We hope to open it next April, if the crisis permits. It is a monument with considerable potential and also allows the National Monuments Centre, the CMN, to play its equalization role. By the way, Madam Minister, we will have to hold on to the national public establishment of Mont-Saint-Michel because, if we want to finance, through the CMN, small monuments that do not have many visitors, those who have many of them must be able to contribute. Finally, with regard to the Grand Palais, a huge project abounded by more than 460 million euros, a revision is carried out with a double objective: to hold the budget – that is the least of the things – and to keep the deadline imposed by the Olympic Games, since this monument must host the events of taekwondo and fencing. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and Dem groups]] I'm finishing with a word about Notre-Dame. The subscription has borne fruit, with 340,000 donors and 830 million euros raised, of which 230 million are already cashed. It will have to be perfectly clear about the nature of the expenditure financed by subscriptions, and I will propose an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u6	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u7	The health crisis that we are going through is hitting the world of culture very hard: more shows, more tourists in museums and losses in billions of euros. In the face of this crisis, the state plays its role as a shock absorber. For heritage, culture and artistic education, the commitment authorisations of the recovery plan amount to EUR 1 billion. However, some of these funds could have been included in the "Culture" mission rather than in the "Relaunch Plan" mission. This is the case with the sums intended to fill the deficits of large operators; These are certainly necessary expenses that I approve – because we are not going to let Versailles or the Opéra de Paris sink – but this is not a revival. In order for the action to be effective, the funds must be spent quickly and throughout the country. I regret that more resources are not devoted to the restoration of the historical monuments of local authorities and private owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u8	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u9	Only €40 million over two years is foreseen for this. It's a shame because the proper maintenance of monuments matters to everyone. Victor Hugo wrote: "There are two things in a building: its use and its beauty. Its use belongs to the owner, its beauty to everyone. » It is also a pity from an economic point of view, because these are funds that can be spent quickly and that are distributed throughout the territory, where they contribute to the activity of construction and crafts. In my constituency, I auditioned two historic monument owners, as well as the mayor of a small town whose church could collapse. They're all hoping for credits to start their construction projects. Apart from the recovery plan, the appropriations for the Culture mission amount to EUR 3.2 billion. As far as the Heritage programme is concerned, I would like to focus on two major projects which weigh heavily on the multiannual programming of appropriations. First, Villers-Cotterêts. I had the chance to visit this building. The castle was left in a state of disrepair by the city hall of Paris, which housed an EHPAD until 2014. I am delighted that the renovation of this Renaissance castle is under way. However, I am struck by the disproportion of the means devoted to it. An investment of EUR 110 million was announced for the initial project, but the recovery plan foresees an additional EUR 100 million, of which EUR 25 million to compensate for the fact that the State did not find any sponsors for this project and EUR 75 million to compensate for the fact that it did not find any private investor to restore and exploit the communes. Admit that it casts doubt on the ambition of this great presidential project! Second point: the renovation of the Grand Palais. You have decided, Madam Minister, to review the original ambitions of this pharaonic construction site, and you are right. However, it is not surprising that the new project is presented with the same budget as last year, i.e. EUR 466 million. With regard to live performance, the State has implemented several business and theatre support schemes through the National Music Centre – CNM – and the Association for Support of Private Theatre. I stress the need to maintain emergency aid in 2021 until the activity resumes in a normal manner. I welcome the adoption of the theatre tax credit in the first part of the 2021 finance bill and hope that the cabarets will be able to benefit from it if they do not receive the live entertainment tax credit. However, I see a striking imbalance between the means given to live entertainment and those devoted to the plastic arts. While live entertainment is more directly affected by containment, distancing and curfew measures, visual artists are subject to the cancellation of exhibitions and do not have unemployment insurance. Finally, the culture pass now seems relegated to the background. Regrettably, confinement occurred at a time when it was to be extended to new departments. In committee, the Minister said she would consider a possible reduction in the value of the crop pass to 300 euros per young person. These changes affect the readability of the device and its success. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, despite these various reservations, the Committee on Cultural Affairs supported the adoption of the appropriations for the Culture mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u11	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u12	We are gathered today to review the culture budget in the 2021 Finance Bill. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats welcomes the unprecedented resources deployed for this sector so hard hit by the crisis. For example, €138 million will strengthen the 2020 budget, an increase of 4.5%. The effort thus made will allow us to continue, in the coming year, the path of democratization and the dissemination of culture to all, a path that we have defended with conviction since the beginning of the legislature. Recall that the determined action of our majority for the cultural sector has allowed to develop many initiatives since 2017. It is worth mentioning in particular the support given to the heritage policy thanks to the heritage lottery or the multiplication of the Micro-Folies, which made it possible to make the works accessible throughout the territory. Similarly, the development of the cultural pass, which is now in the experimental phase, marks a step forward in the dissemination of culture to the younger ones. In 2021, the deployment of culture to all our fellow citizens, young and old, urban and rural, will remain one of our priorities. This ambition has been reinforced by the health crisis, which has revealed the prominent place we place on culture in our daily lives. Going to the museum, to the cinema, to a concert or to the theatre is an inherent habit of our everyday life, the importance of which has been shown since we were deprived of it, that is, for several months now. It is because the cultural sector is so important that our group will ensure that the budget for 2021 provides the necessary support to the various cultural actors, that we must help to deal with the epidemic. In fact, the health crisis has hit, and still hit, the cultural world, which is now in a very precarious situation. The turnover of the various cultural market sectors decreased by 25% in 2020 compared to 2019, while the net losses incurred by operators amounted to more than 500 million. In this context, the State has provided massive support by creating multiple mechanisms, but, like many other sectors, the effects of the health crisis will still be visible next year. The 2021 finance bill, far from sacrificing the cultural field, provides a response to these alarming losses. For the creative sector, support is provided for places of production, while support is provided by the National Centre for Plastic Arts – CNAP – to galleries, publishers and audiovisual producers. This effort is part of the policy of helping creative artists and businesses, which we are committed to because it promotes the diversity of the visual arts. He will respond, I hope, to the fears of the professionals. We also welcome the special importance of heritage in this year's budget. Funds of unprecedented magnitude are mobilized, not only for the restoration of the monuments that make our common history, but also for other essential investments, those of the communities, who know the heritage well, and those of the operators. With regard to democratisation of access to culture, programme 361 "Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture" gives itself the means of its ambitions with an increase in the funds allocated to action 01 "Support for higher education institutions and vocational integration" and to action 02 "Support for democratisation and artistic and cultural education". On the other hand, action 03 "French language and languages of France" does not benefit from an increase in appropriations, with an allocation maintained at 3.2 million. Members of the Mouvement Démocratique et Démocrates Allied (Mouvement Démocratique et Démocrates Allied) group recall the importance of supporting the Francophonie around the world. Our language carries with it our humanistic values. The news is a cruel reminder of how much we need it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] I cannot finish without mentioning the unprecedented efforts in favour of culture in the recovery plan. These additional funding will help revive the heritage sector, give new impetus to our artistic model, and also provide the necessary support for artistic employment in the face of the difficulties associated with the persistence of the health crisis. On behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats, I welcome this fair and coherent budget in the light of government objectives. We will therefore vote in favour of the appropriations allocated to the mission "Culture" for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mette!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u14	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u15	Closed cinemas and museums, closed theatres and discotheques, closed bookstores, cancelled shows and festivals: the list is sadly long. Let us not hide it, the world of culture is in great pain. Already sounded by the first wave, here it is at the edge of drowning with the second confinement and its arbitrations contested on the definition of essential goods. Strange thing that this country of the cultural exception where it is so difficult to admit the essential place of cultural goods in the daily lives of our fellow citizens... Yet, let us recall, there were no clusters of contamination in the growing grounds. They assumed their responsibilities, displayed inventiveness and continued to fight at all costs to support their industry, artists, employees, self-employed and intermittents. Madam Minister, you have shown your commitment to the cultural sector by increasing the budget by 5% compared to 2020 and by presenting a recovery plan of 2 billion, but we are concerned that this is not enough in the face of the crisis and its uncertainties. If the losses are estimated today at 22 billion, we are not yet, and you know, measuring the full scale of the disaster. As for the contingency plan, we fear that it will be more a support plan than a real recovery plan. The fourth amending finance bill, PLFR 4, will again have to support the affected sectors. In this context, members of the Socialist and Related Group would like to stress several points that require vigilance. First of all, our concern is about the resumption of cultural activity in August 2021, which is crucial for the intermittents of the show, and the way in which the white year is implemented. Will one year be enough to save the 260,000 intermittents? We are then concerned about the situation of the communities. These essential relays of cultural diffusion benefit only $40 million in the programme of the incentive and partnership fund out of the 2 billion of the stimulus plan and 2 million in funding for the call for projects "cultural and creative neighbourhoods". Efforts towards communities must be intensified and a balance sought. The necessary support for large operators must not be to their detriment. It includes the maintenance of decentralized support to the regional cultural affairs directorates – DRAC – in order to maintain the networks, festivals and residences that our territories need. The territorial network is also provided by our territorial art schools, most of which are public industrial and commercial institutions – EPIC. Clear support from public policies is needed for them, not only to rebalance statutory inequalities, but also to give public higher education the means to play on equal terms with private actors, to recall the stakes and to affirm France's ambitions in this area. The conservatories are also part of this network and clarification is needed as to the support they will receive in the future. The departments of the Ministry of Culture are planning a reform of the conservatories, but the budget presented to us does not say so. Members of the Socialist and Related Group are very committed to access to culture and its democratization. The presence of works of art in the public space plays an important role in avoiding the partitioning of places of culture and should be promoted. If the "1% artistic" device has been designed for this purpose, its effectiveness needs to be reconsidered. Similarly, we support the pursuit of strong actions around policies for the democratization of culture through artistic and cultural education – EAC. However, we remain mixed on the monitoring indicators used to judge its effectiveness. Can allowing the encounter between a work and a student at least once in school be assimilated to a cultural democratisation enterprise? Bringing art into school, of course, but building real artistic and cultural education courses! For this, we need to spread the languages that allow the transmission and understanding of works and bring the farthest audiences closer to the beautiful things of the world. So again this year, we do not believe that the 57 million dedicated to the cultural pass in 2021 will reach their target. Most surveys show that this tool is only used at the margins of students in disadvantaged socio-occupational backgrounds. There is an impensiveness in our educational system, which, in its narrow vision of school time, persists in not considering artistic teachings as fundamental, capable of remedying learning difficulties and transforming minds. Our group is also very concerned about the thousands of artistic jobs that are at risk. The additional 5 million in the FONPEPS budget is likely to be insufficient to save all jobs. Stronger support is needed to maintain these multi-skilled jobs and to sustain this economic fabric. In addition to this threat, the precarious conditions facing artists, performers and composers are unjustifiable. There is an urgent need to bring the economy of this sector to a standstill, in which too often the process of creation is not taken into account, but only the distribution system. The inadaptation of taxation and social rights to the multifaceted realities of artists-authors cannot continue. The various regimes and statutes had revealed their shortcomings during the crisis: the mechanisms put in place by the Government had made it difficult to recognize them and to take charge of them. And then there is the trades sector, a real national wealth that, with 0.56 million euros of additional deconcentrated credits, is having a hard time coping with the crisis. Finally, I want to mention the great forgotten plans of the recovery: the intermittents of the tourism, hotel and event sectors, more than 20,000 people who do not fit into any box but who, nevertheless, participate fully in the economy and in the dynamism of the cultural world. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, the Socialist and related group recognizes the magnitude of the efforts made. Once is not customary, because we bet on trust and because we support your action for culture, we will vote in favour of the budget devoted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u16	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u17	This morning, in a very specific context, we are looking at the appropriations of the 2021 finance bill on culture. Everyone knows the unique place culture plays in our country. The debates over the past few days on the closure of bookstores illustrate our special relationship to culture and the works of the spirit. We are proud of our cultural exception and we are right to be. Our country knows how to rely on the beauty of its monuments, which highlight our landscapes, as well as the excellence of its museums and the quality of its artistic production. These cultural assets play an essential role in France's attractiveness, which remains one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the world. Since last March, our country has been facing a global health crisis that has paralyzed our economies and disrupted our lives. All sectors are affected and permanently weakened. Unfortunately, the cultural sector is no exception. In the face of this situation, the Government and the majority have for months been mobilizing exceptional means to combat the effects of the virus and protect our fellow citizens. For culture, we had to act without delay with two imperatives: to protect the sector and to reshape our cultural ambition. This requires concerted action to address the concerns of those who bring our cultural exception to life and high: the artists-authors, the intermittents and all the professions of the show, whose survival was threatened by the cancellation of summer concerts and festivals, but also the museums, which were severely penalized by health restrictions. The Government has already taken strong steps in this direction, targeted measures such as the White Year for Intermittency, amounting to EUR 849 million, as well as the introduction of cross-cutting aid until the end of 2020: I am thinking of partial activity, exemption from charges or the Solidarity Fund, for a total amount of EUR 3.3 billion already committed under the act of amending finance. We must add to these measures the means of the stimulus plan announced last September: it is an unprecedented effort to avoid the collapse of our economy and to prepare for the future. It has an ambitious cultural component, with 2 billion euros in addition to the new appropriations allocated to the Ministry of Culture in 2021. In line with these priorities, the resources of the Culture mission increased by 138 million euros in 2021, reaching a total of 3.2 billion in payment appropriations. The Action Together Group also welcomes the new support measures announced at the end of October for the sectors of live performance and cinema; total EUR 115 million made available under PLFR 4. This was necessary in view of the very heavy impact on the entire sector of the measures taken to protect the country from the epidemic. The difficulties are known. The distancing measures and the maintenance of a maximum gauge allowed only a very partial resumption of the activity, which was far from compensating the losses incurred during the first confinement as a result of the administrative closures. The new €115 million for live shows and cinemas is in addition to the targeted emergency measures already planned, in particular the extension of the rights for the intermittents of the show until 31 August 2021. Emergency funds for private theatre, the National Music Centre or festivals have also been created to support these sectors and compensate for the decline in spectators. At the same time, a specific EUR 5 million emergency solidarity fund was implemented under the aegis of the Ministry of Culture. It helps to protect artists who are not eligible for the allocations already in place and who do not enjoy the status of entertainer. The State has therefore played and will continue to play its full role in safeguarding our cultural sector. [[Applause on some ofthe banksoftheLaRegroup and on severalofthebanksoftheDemgroup]] Minister, the Action Together Group fully supports the commitments you have made alongside the world of culture. The sites are vast to protect those who make our cultural exception live. They are essential because culture is what we are; Its role is more decisive than ever in our society. It is through it that the resilience of a people materializes, and it is it that ultimately underpins the singularity of our nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u18	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u19	André Malraux was right to say that culture was what made man "other than an accident of the universe." This idea still resonates today in French cultural policy, which sees our country generally invest more in this field than our European neighbours. The "Culture" mission again reflects its importance this year, with a sharp increase in appropriations. We are pleased that this budget covers all areas of the sector and that it is adjusted to the current situation. We cannot underestimate the role that culture plays in our society, everywhere in the territory, and here I would like to greet and assure with all our support all the artists and cultural actors of the event that allow us to enrich ourselves, to flourish, and who suffer so much in these times of health crisis. I would like to dwell for a moment on the social and territorial cohesion encouraged by the cultural pass, the main policy of the presidential programme in cultural matters. If the lion's share of the culture's credits – 59 million euros are dedicated to it – the next finalisation of the pass would see its envelope reduced. Unfortunately, health prospects should leave little room for live entertainment and concerts within this funding. Minister, how can we make the ecosystem of the pass culture virtuous, so that it does not only benefit the digital cultural industries or the purchase of school books during this period of health crisis, and that it allows an exchange between artists and young people in the same territory? Even before the passing of culture, it is the contact between schools and the cultural community that worries me. It is estimated that school attendance at cultural sites will continue to decline in 2021, following a logical sharp decline in 2020. We understand, now more than ever, that health issues can be a problem. However, sometimes school is the only place for some students to have access to culture, and we do not want them to be penalized by the crisis. The IDU and independent group will propose that funds be made available to help our students not to lose contact with places and actors of culture. I firmly believe that culture is more than a sector of activity. It is a "vital necessity," to use the very correct terms used by Éric de Chassey. As soon as one closes a cultural place, he writes, "the prejudice is not only economic [...], it is also intellectual, emotional and spiritual" for the French as a whole. The exceptional situation we are experiencing this year is likely to continue in 2021, which leads us, Madam Minister, to wonder about the consultations we have with artists and the public. What will happen to our theatre, music and film festivals? In all the territories, many actors in our cultural fabric are concerned about the losses of their ticket office, which sometimes threaten their survival and, by snowball effect, that of many artists and associations. The cultural exception and richness of the Hexagon also translate into more than 45,000 buildings, which usually delight 12 million visitors on Heritage Days, for example. Monuments listed or registered, these places of memory have had to close again since the reconfiguration and have little prospect for the beginning of the year 2021. Many historical monuments will thus be deprived of their income, only generated by public reception. According to a Bercy Order, some of these monuments, which are in difficulty as a result of the pandemic, will be eligible for a State-guaranteed loan. The additional €42.8 million allocated for heritage is also in the right direction. However, I am concerned about how maintenance, protection and renovation can be funded. Will they still be possible at the end of the crisis, given the large sums spent to support the French economy? As you know, Minister, I am also paying particular attention to the plastic arts, particularly the schools devoted to this practice in our territories. I will again introduce amendments proposing that you support higher education and research in this field, in order to sustain their funds, their know-how and their diplomas. Finally, I would like to refer to the fate of our 670000 intermittents. Your government has announced a white year for them; they can count on the proposed allowances until August 2021. But, once again, there are concerns for the future, because of the lack of visibility and the prospect of empty agendas. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Brigitte Kuster also applauds]] I have made little mention of the recovery plan, but its role will of course be crucial, essential. Our culture is in crisis and suffers from the doubts created by the health situation. While defending some important principles in our view, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this important support budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u20	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u21	This is now beyond doubt: the sectors of culture will be among the most vulnerable by the health crisis and its repercussions, and they will suffer for a long time from its disastrous consequences. The confinement of spring has already caused almost irreversible damage. The economics of the heritage and architecture sector recorded a massive turnover loss of 30% over the year 2020. For the artistic creation sector, losses amount to more than €7 billion as a result of the closure of theatres and exhibition venues, the cancellation of tours, festivals, fairs and fairs, and the cessation of artistic orders. We must face the reality: some actors will not recover from this new confinement, especially if it were to last. In the absence of human and material means, the screening policy put in place during the deconfinition, "test-tracer-isoler", failed. It has been characterized by unharmonised and inadequate test protocols, a lack of prioritisation, a lack of intervention and social monitoring on the ground; In addition, pilot experiments such as the one conducted by epidemiologist Renaud Piarroux, rich in his experience in epidemic management, have not been generalized. Quantitative and advertising effects on quality and field interventions based on what has worked elsewhere were emphasized. Social security personnel are becoming saturated. The health situation is worsening, as we know, and the risks of strain on the health system are increasing. The balance that has been sought between economic and health will not hold the road. The risk of an endless day for the actors of culture is now well present in all minds. In such a context, the appropriations of the Culture mission are necessarily expected, both to deal with the urgency and to prepare for the future. Culture needs a long time. The appropriations are, of course, increasing, after transfers, by EUR 138 million compared to 2020. We welcome this increase of about 4.5 per cent. They are in addition to the emergency measures taken since the beginning of the crisis, as well as the recovery plan. The Liberties and Territories Group wished to welcome the initiatives taken by the Government, but we now know that they will not be up to the urgency or the necessary revival, while the recovery that we all want is moving away day after day. Let us, however, first of all take stock of the efforts made. A very important effort has been made towards the "Heritage" programme, which will reach more than EUR 1 billion. The recovery plan allocated EUR 345 million in payment appropriations in 2021. However, we urge the Government, as we did last year, to step up support for heritages of all sizes, and in all territories. All too often, we regret that the most visible major projects are still the first beneficiaries. As such, the restoration of the Château de Villers-Cotterêts and the project as a whole appear disproportionate, at a time when everyone is invited to revise their ambitions downwards. Of course, we welcome the effort made with regard to the "Creation" programme: it consists of an increase of EUR 37 million, in addition to the aid included in the recovery plan. But it has well-known oblivions, especially since the longer the time of the crisis will be, the more the upstream of the chain will be in danger. In this case, we strongly call for increased resources for creators and producers. We will propose an amendment to abound the new actions you have created – actions 01 and 02 of programme 131 – with an additional €10 million for live actors and an additional €5 million for visual arts. The downstream industry also suffers from the shock of full whipping. The aim of increasing public participation in cultural places is totally challenged by the health crisis. During the examination of PLFR 3, we had offered assistance in equipping the rooms for the capture of live performances, allowing for a combination of physical and distancing presence. We believe it is essential to continue along this path, because this solution allows us to respond both to the urgency – the broadcast of shows despite closures or physical distancing measures – and, beyond the health crisis, to promote public renewal and the reduction of fractures. We will reiterate this proposal during the review of PLFR 4, because we must help the rooms to equip themselves. Many do not have the necessary investment capacity, but if they do not equip themselves now, they will not be operational in time. Finally, the programme "Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture" will be increased to €590 million. Unfortunately, one of the main actions financed is the cultural pass. Despite the commitments of successive culture ministers and despite our requests for a report, no independent evaluation has been presented or even carried out on what is still an experiment. Since 2018, we have been renewing important appropriations for the cultural pass every year: 5 million euros for its prefiguration, 34 million in 2019, 10 million more in 2020, and 20 million more in 2021 – yes, 20 million euros! What are they going to do, especially in times of containment? Without hindsight, we do not consider it appropriate to allocate such substantial funding to a scheme which, by its very essence, has never succeeded in achieving its original objectives, namely access to culture for all and the reduction of cultural divides, whatever they may be. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] The Libertés et Territoires Group considered the appropriations for the Culture mission to be a positive first step; We therefore intended to vote on them. But because of the scale and duration of the health crisis, we already know that they are likely to be insufficient and, for some, unjustly distributed. As a result, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u22	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u23	The great forgotten of the mission "Culture" of the finance bill for 2021 are the artists-authors. However, the health crisis in our country is a revealing and accelerating factor in the difficulties faced by our creators and creators. The closure of the broadcasting and creation sites has led to an unprecedented deterioration of their economic situation. Recall that this situation of growing precariousness – assessed and documented in the report submitted by Bruno Racine rue de Valois in January 2020 – is not new. The majority of the 270,000 artists-authors in France live below the poverty line, which means that many of them have to combine their artistic work with a food trade. All are faced with uncertain income risks. This alarming situation is due to two main reasons: the artists-authors are not considered and treated as a professional category in their own right by the Ministry of Culture; They are financially dependent on a system of commercial production and distribution. There is therefore an urgent need to develop specific public policies aimed at improving the status of artists-authors in our country. Creators and creators demand strong, quick and tailored measures from us to meet their demands. That is why I tabled a bill last week to create a national centre for artists-authors. I would like to use today's speaking time in this rostrum to detail the operative part of my text. The centre would run an observatory responsible for the statistical and qualitative monitoring of the various professions of artists-authors, which would enable the public authorities to better understand them in their entirety and their professional characteristics. The centre would ensure the publication of an informative work bringing together all the rules relating to artists-authors, but also the opportunities for them to consult, including invitations to tender and prizes. The aim would be to create a national reference tool for artists-authors and their economic partners, as well as for public administration. The centre would also be a forum for mediation to resolve disputes between artists-authors and downstream actors – broadcasters, publishers, producers. It would administer a centre of collective bargaining, in order to organize the social dialogue between the representatives of the professional organizations of artists-authors and those of the channels of diffusion. Collective agreements could thus be adopted and made compulsory by the Minister of Culture. My proposal also provides for a mechanism to combat inequalities among artists-authors, taking into account the gender, geography and social origins of creators and creators. Aids to artists would consist of two types of schemes, starting with a support fund for artistic creation, which would not be organised in silos as at present, but in a global way, taking into account the entire professional population of artists-authors. My will is to increase considerably the share of creation aid in the aid deployed by the Ministry of Culture. The centre would also set up an emergency aid fund for artists-authors, in order to stem the effects – which will be felt for several years – of the health crisis. Here we could create the one-stop shop that artists-authors call for in order to maintain their economic activity and survive. Colleagues, there can be no artistic diffusion without artists-authors to give it meaning. Our responsibility as political decision-makers obliges us to respond to the warning cry of those who create and participate amply in the emancipation of each and every one through culture. The creation of a national centre of artists-authors is the first step necessary for a better consideration of our creators. I call on all national representatives to look into my bill and to vote in favour of the amendment that I will defend later, opening the budget line necessary for the implementation of this scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] I also call on the Government to take up my proposals, which emanate from collaborative work with many creative professionals. Wherever they come from, initiatives in favour of our artists-authors are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u24	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u25	The year 2021 should have been a pivotal year for culture: increased to 3.2 billion euros, the appropriations for this mission are finally reaching their 2010 level. This catch-up, which we welcome, however, comes at a time when the cultural world is more than hard hit by the health crisis, which is not without consequences on the assessment that we could have made of the 4.6% increase in appropriations at constant scope. Whether it is containment, physical distancing or curfew, all health measures to combat covid-19 have had an immediate impact on all cultural sectors and actors, to the extent that the cultural ecosystem is completely upset. Each time, in a very proactive manner and whatever the constraints, cultural operators have adapted and innovated to maintain the link between audiences, artists and works, under conditions as optimal as possible. But it must be noted that the interruption imposed by this new confinement may be insurmountable for many already fragile sectors. This budget cannot be considered as such. Bearing in mind the cross-cutting measures, the cultural aspect of the recovery plan and also your amendment creating the final exceptional measures of EUR 115 million, I shall make a few observations. The first is obvious: it will be necessary to go further, both in terms of the means and the duration of application of the arrangements, both the decrease in the turnover of the cultural sector, already estimated at more than EUR 22 billion, will worsen further. For the live spectacle, a great victim of this health crisis, emergency measures will probably have to be maintained throughout next year. Artistic creation is severely affected by the closure of theatres and exhibitions, the cancellation of events and the application of reduced gauges. For many sectors and artists, it is now a question of survival. There is every reason to believe that the white year in intermittance will have to be extended beyond August 2021, in order to avoid the artists and technicians of the show being confronted, at the end of this crisis, with an even more dreadful precariousness. In this regard, I thank you, Madam Minister, for hearing a recurring and now urgent request from the professionals of La Réunion's show: they want a Pôle emploi spectacle to be reopened on the spot. My second point concerns the distribution of appropriations allocated to the heritage and architecture sector, which also has considerable economic losses – minus 30%. While you have said that you are the minister of artists and territories, neither the stimulus plan nor the funds – though on the increase – included in the draft finance law in favour of this programme, contribute to the necessary rebalancing between Paris and the regions, between urban heritage and rural heritage. The culture pass, which still occupies a central place in the programme "Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture", would therefore be less fragile than you fear, Madam Minister. However, this favourable development is probably not such that we can avoid a recast of a system that still does not reach its target audience, which remains under-used and too overlooked. On the other hand, Micro-Folies – these digital museums that bring together collections and great representations of places of life and citizens – quickly met their audiences. The multiplicity of opportunities and experiences can only encourage speeding up the coverage of the entire national territory. Is the promise to create 1000 by 2022 still relevant? My last point concerns the overseas countries and territories. First of all, I deplore the abandonment of all projects for the promotion and dissemination of the overseas cultures – the latest probably being the Cité des Overseas – but also that of the existing tools, symbolized by the closure of France Ô. As a result, we still don't see the best visibility of overseas. As for the ultramarine press, it has always been surprisingly excluded from the aid provided for the national and regional press. After France - West Indies, two Réunion newspapers find themselves in great difficulty: Le Quotidien de La Réunion, where a threat of dismissal hangs on 40 per cent of the staff; The Journal de l'île de La Réunion, which was again placed in judicial reform yesterday. Of the €450 million in funding that the Media, Books and Cultural Industries mission has earmarked for press aid, €2 million will be returned to the overseas countries and territories. We welcome this timid beginning, but hope that it can help counter any scenario that would be catastrophic for information pluralism and democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not oppose your budget and will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u26	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u27	The exceptional mobilization, which we have witnessed in recent days in favour of bookstores, marks the visceral attachment of our fellow citizens to the culture and the central place it occupies in our national imagination. In the spring, during the first period of confinement, the French began singing at the windows; They took refuge in reading, in music and in fiction to face the test of reality and to regain hope at the roots of life. Now, the French fear that our cultural exception will drown in the second wave of the coronavirus epidemic. I would like to reassure them: the Government and the majority are fully mobilized to support the cultural sector in the face of the crisis. Appropriations for the Culture Mission are up nearly 4.5 per cent compared to the initial finance bill for 2020. First of all, I want to welcome the priority given to the conservation and restoration of historic monuments, whose credits are up by almost 4.22% in 2021. This is great news for culture in the territories. Unlike a museum or a show – where the public chooses to go – the observation of the immediate architectural environment is free and free; It is binding on us. Beyond the sense of aesthetic reflection it provides, heritage is thus an excellent tool for cultural mediation, a bridge to history and a better appropriation of local cultures and identities. This priority given to the conservation and restoration of historic monuments is also an important mechanism for supporting and maintaining the activity of TPEs and SMEs in the craft and heritage restoration sector, which are very dependent on public procurement. The current health crisis poses the risk of the loss of ancestral know-how necessary for the transmission of our common good to future generations. Let us highlight the rise of the incentive and partnership fund – FIP – in favour of the historical monuments of the small communes: almost €5 million in additional payment appropriations were granted in 2021, which shows a particular focus on rural areas. This measure responds to a concern of low-resourced municipalities, which sometimes find it difficult to close the financial tables with all the actors – state, local authorities, private partners –, in particular following the disengagement of certain departments. In this regard, I welcome the proactive policy of my department of Charente-Maritime, which has decided, in the current context, to increase its contribution by 400,000 euros to finance the historical heritage and the heritages of proximity, including non-registered ones. This demonstrates, if necessary, that heritage is the business of all institutions. The FIP complements the action undertaken by the Ministry of Culture to enhance the heritage dimension of projects to revitalize old centres, particularly within the remarkable heritage sites – SPR – within the framework of the action centre of town, and soon within the framework of the plan small cities of tomorrow. It should be recalled that, in the framework of the third law of amending finance, we have changed the conditions for granting the label of the Heritage Foundation, in order to extend them to buildings located in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and not protected as historical monuments. All these measures illustrate the majority's attention to heritage in all territories, particularly those with limited cultural supply. I would also like to emphasize the increased support for creation, a sign that, even in times of crisis, the Government intends to accompany the inventiveness, innovation and vitality of the cultural sector. In particular, I welcome the 18% increase in the appropriations for the payment of the budget for the creation, production and dissemination of the visual arts. I would like these credits to be partly dedicated to the accompaniment of artisans and art masters, whose turnover has often collapsed beyond the 80% limit, particularly as a result of the cancellation of many cultural fairs and the erosion of orders. The weakening of this economic sector, as a result of the epidemic, poses the threat of the disappearance of know-how that contributes to our dynamic of cultural diffusion and the reputation of our country internationally. Finally, I would like to point out the strengthening of support for transition and digital innovation: almost €1.5 million more. The first period of containment showed us how important digital technology is for cultural democratization. Thus, the Louvre Museum has successfully reinvented its digital consultation policy: nearly 10 million people visited its site in the spring, as well as physical visitors in one year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] The group of La République en marche will therefore vote for the credits of the mission "Culture". These provide a proportionate response to the crisis, while consecrating our cultural exception where culture is a continuum of amateur and professional practices, with multiple entrances and a staggering path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u28	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u29	"Culture dominates everything, it is the sine qua non of our civilization," said General de Gaulle in 1965. As I had already done on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party during your hearing by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, we are taking note of the fact that the budget of the Ministry of Culture has increased by more than 5%. It should also be noted, not without satisfaction, that the Government intends to devote, in the France Recovery Plan, almost 2 billion euros to culture, including more than 1 billion euros of budgetary appropriations in the field of the "Culture" mission. However, as the rapporteur for the opinion, Valérie Bazin-Malgras, pointed out, a significant part of these appropriations is not devoted to investments, but is intended to fill the operating deficits of some of the major operators of the State – the Paris Opera, the Louvre Museum or the Palace of Versailles. Of course, it is out of the question of abandoning these florets of French culture, especially when they face a deep crisis that calls into question their cultural and economic model; But these expenses are not, strictly speaking, investment expenditure for the revival of the cultural sector; rather, they should be included in the "Culture" mission. I will not go back to all the emergency aid and support schemes created by the State – solidarity funds, state-guaranteed loans, partial activity arrangements – even though it was necessary, at the beginning of the first confinement, to fight a great deal for certain categories, particularly the authors, to benefit from them and not to be left at the edge of the road. I would also point out that public institutions such as the CNM, the National Film and Image Centre – CNC – or the CNAP have played their full role and have been able to quickly unblock emergency measures. In the same way, the CMOs – collective management organizations – responded present, were responsive and fulfilled their role well. Live shows, theatres, operas, cabarets, dance, concerts, cinemas, festivals, museums, historical monuments, various artistic fairs and fairs, libraries, bookstores: the list is long – too long – of the sacrifices of culture, those that the continuation of the health crisis challenges to survive and resist. I want to pay tribute here to all the actors in the cultural sectors, who have been able to deploy treasures of ingenuity, creativity and agility to resist, face and reinvent themselves in order to keep the link with their audience. It was, of course, before the new containment, which hit the area so hard. I will say a word from the bookstores, to recall the sadness that seized many of us when we realized that they were not considered essential businesses. May the device "I command and take" – to speak French – really help them. To return to the budget of the Ministry of Culture, Members of the Republican Group insist on the need to maintain certain aid and support arrangements throughout the year 2021, because they have understood that the resumption of normal activities in the cultural sector is not for tomorrow – that is to say the least. We welcome, as Gilles Carrez has done, the increase in the appropriations for the Heritage programme, but we would have liked a larger share to have been allocated to the maintenance and restoration of the heritage belonging to private owners or local authorities – the rapporteur for the opinion Valérie Bazin-Malgras stressed this. Similarly, the additional EUR 40 million allocated to non-state holders of assets under the Recovery Plan seems somewhat disproportionate to the total envelope. As for the culture pass, you know the reservations – not to say more – expressed by the members of the group. The Republicans since the beginning of the quinquennium: we always wonder about the total cost of this mechanism, its relevance and its merits. The experimental phases show mixed results, and we would not like its existence to harm historical operators working in the field of artistic and cultural education. I will end with a somewhat bitter note, Madam Minister: yesterday we learned that the Senate had just concluded its consideration of the bill on the return of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal, unanimously adopting it, that the State would return to Madagascar the crown of the dais of the Malagasy queen Ranavalona III, preserved so far at the Museum of the Army.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u31	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This loan, of which we have discovered the existence suddenly, by means of the press, is made in disregard of the national representation, of which we consider that it is the only one authorized to derogate from the principle of inalienability of French museum collections and to allow this type of return – if this term is appropriate. In our view, there is a fact of the prince that we must denounce. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Frédérique Dumas also applauds]] I will conclude by saying that, in the interests of these observations, and all other things equal, the Republicans Group will abstain from the budget of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u32	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u33	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u34	The review of the budget for 2021 is taking place, as you have all stressed, in a particular context for the world of culture, very hard hit by the measures related to the health crisis – Mrs Dominique David has recalled perfectly. The exceptional 4.8 per cent increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in 2021 demonstrates the Government's commitment to strengthening its essential role in the democratic, social and economic life of our country. This remarkable budgetary effort is part of the continuation of the total mobilization that the State has shown since the beginning of the health crisis to support cultural actors – I thank Gilles Carrez for having emphasized it. Thus, as Benoît Potterie pointed out, the world of culture as a whole has already benefited from more than €5 billion of emergency measures, and especially €940 million for the white year of intermittance. Some of you – I am thinking of Michèle Victory or Béatrice Descamps – have mentioned the need to continue this effort. I confirm that it will of course be maintained if the need arises. In order to enable the sector to project itself in the future, I have obtained that the cultural component of the France Relaunch Plan mobilises an exceptional envelope of EUR 2 billion. Since the start of the year, 220 million euros have been mobilised to support cinemas and theatres, which were faced with a significant decrease in their activity due to physical distancing and curfew measures. As a new period of containment begins, I am working to adapt the devices to the reality of the needs of cultural actors. It is in this unprecedented context that the budget for the "Culture" mission submitted for your review was developed. In 2021, it will grow by an exceptional 4.6% – an additional 141 million euros – to a total of more than 3.2 billion euros. The budget for this mission will be supplemented by €733 million from the France Recovery Plan, which will be deployed at equivalent scope for this first year of implementation. In total, nearly €4 billion will be spent next year on heritage, creation, transmission and cultural democratisation. These means of historical magnitude – as you have pointed out almost unanimously – will enable us to undertake an ambitious effort to reshape our cultural model. Beyond the emergency situation we face, it is essential that our cultural policies respond to the major challenges now facing us. As the survey on the cultural practices of the French people, which I took upon myself as soon as I arrived on Rue de Valois, shows, it is essential to take decisive action to reconcile heritage culture and digital culture, which are too often partitioned in the practices of our fellow citizens. The resources included in each of the programmes of this budget mission will enable us to work towards this end. Mr Gérard will indeed benefit from an exceptional budget of €1.015 billion – up 4.4%, or €43 million, compared to 2020 – plus €345 million from the recovery plan in 2021. These investments will contribute to the development of the economy and will strengthen the attractiveness and cohesion of the territories. You are right to point out that the protection of the heritage, its renovation and its safeguarding depend not only on the state, but also on the local authorities – you have welcomed the action of Charente-Maritime, but we are obviously working with many departments. These appropriations will finance, inter alia, a plan to renovate territorial museums, with €52 million over two years – including €6 million from the recovery plan – and measures to support archives and archaeology, for heritage facilities in the territories. We will also deploy, next year, a vast plan dedicated to cathedrals – it was time! The increase in the long-term budgetary appropriations allocated to these buildings, to which Gilles Carrez referred, will bring the annual structural financing to EUR 50 million per year, to which will be added EUR 40 million per year from the recovery plan – a total of EUR 180 million over two years. This will enable the necessary work to be carried out to ensure the safety and security of buildings, as well as to speed up restoration projects. If the subject of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris is not part of this budgetary discussion, I will have the opportunity, Mr Carrez, to give all the useful explanations concerning it. We will also continue our investment programme for large national institutions, both in the area of heritage and creation, while the recovery plan will provide substantial and indispensable support to national operators. The appropriations provided for in the PLF for 2021 will make it possible to continue the major projects already committed. Valérie Bazin-Malgras drew my attention to the case of the Grand Palais, of which I have indeed chosen to reorient the restoration programme in order to better guarantee the control of costs as well as delays, but the projects under way also concern the relocation in Pantin of the National Centre for the Plastic Arts, to which Sophie Mette is attached, or the equipment of the two scenes of the Opéra de Paris. In return for this support, I do expect these institutions, Mrs Le Grip, to further embody their national responsibility by getting closer to our fellow citizens and developing in all territories. The "Creation" programme will also see a sharp increase in 2021: it will reach 4.5%, i.e. €37 million in new budgetary measures, plus €320 million from the recovery plan. One of the priorities is to better support creative establishments in the regions: EUR 15 million will be spent on restoring and consolidating the artistic margins of the labels and supporting artistic companies, while EUR 3 million will go to the visual arts. The resources of the National Music Centre will be strengthened: an additional €7.5 million will ensure compliance with the three-year trajectory set last year to accompany the rise of the CNM, not to mention that it will lead an exceptional allocation of €200 million for the entire music industry, allocated as part of the recovery plan. The theatres will also benefit from tax schemes included in the PLF, namely the extension of the tax credit for live performances, the criteria of which are relaxed, but also the creation of a theatre tax credit that will strengthen the scheme that your assembly had adopted under PLF 3. In complementarity with the recovery plan, the PLF for 2021 increases our support for cultural employment through the strengthening of the FONPEPS – more than 1 million euros – and a mobilization of 2 million euros to implement the first measures for artists-authors – I have heard Michel Larive's proposals for this sector, unfortunately divided by major conflicts. The "Culture" mission also contains the new programme 361 "Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture", which represents 46 million euros in additional appropriations, representing a sharp increase of 8.5%. Dominique David, you welcomed the general delegation that I wished to create, on this subject, within the ministry. It will provide cross-cutting guidance to the Ministry for Access to Culture in the Territories in the field of cultural and artistic education or training, in conjunction with the other ministries concerned, in particular the Ministry for the Cohesion of the Territories and the Ministries of National Education and Higher Education. In addition to the action taken by the Ministry of Culture to achieve the 100% EAC – artistic and cultural education – target, cultural pass credits will increase by €20 million. I want to develop this tool because it must be better linked with the end of the artistic and cultural education path, and make a real contribution to the diversification of the cultural practices of young people; I will have the opportunity to explain this to you in response to your questions and your amendments, ladies and gentlemen. Our policy of access to culture in all territories will also benefit from other means: next year we will designate the first "French capital of culture", a new label that will distinguish every two years cultural and artistic innovation as well as the attractiveness of a city or a group of communities in this field. Higher cultural education will benefit from a significant budgetary increase of 3.3 per cent. In this way, we improve the study and living conditions of the 37,000 students in our cultural and artistic schools, and strengthen measures to support student life and vocational integration. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are, in broad terms, the priorities of the Culture Mission for 2021, whose appropriations are subject to your vote. The new budgetary resources mobilized by this mission, in these difficult times, you have stressed it, of our confidence in the future, of our determination to accompany and support, in our country, the vitality of cultural life, which is indeed one of the foundations of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u35	We come to the questions. Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u36	We, members of the Socialist and Related Group, have tabled an appeal amendment calling for the establishment of a single postal tariff for the sending of books. Indeed, publishers and independent booksellers, who do not have distribution structures, see their meagre margins disappear as the cost of shipping a book with a weight of between 250 and 500 grams can reach up to 30% of its total price, when large online sales platforms sometimes charge a single cent of euro for shipping costs. By breaking prices on these fees, they attack the logic of the single price of the book that allowed the maintenance of a diversified editorial offer and equitable access to culture throughout the territory. We have therefore noted with satisfaction the joint announcement, which you made yesterday with the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, of taking charge of the costs of sending the books ordered from the independent booksellers during the reconfinition. This announcement is a first step. But it will only marginally solve the great difficulty in which the reconfinition places the 3500 French bookstores, engines of the vitality of our neighbourhoods, our cities and our villages, thanks in particular to the original and virtuous model of the single price of the book. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Thus, in addition to your respectable appeals, Madam Minister, to favour independent actors in the book industry over major brands, does the Government envisage a specific taxation of these large platforms, which have been unmistakably the great winners of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u37	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u38	[[Smile. – Mrs Danielle Brulebois and Maud Petit applaud]] I thank you, Mr Le Maire, for paying tribute to the determined action that I am taking, in collaboration with my colleague Bruno Le Maire, to support the booksellers through this operation which I call "click and take" and not "click and collect" – some who have called my attention to the defence of the Francophonie: it is therefore an opportunity to put things back on track. On sending operations, it is therefore a matter of putting the booksellers on an equal footing with the platforms. I welcome the involvement of La Poste, which, for the transport and delivery of books, has taken a very interesting step which will allow to divide practically by three the costs in the agglomerations. I welcome this concerted action and thank the leaders of La Poste for it. You asked me about the taxation of large platforms. I would point out that France is well ahead in this area, but everyone understands the legal difficulty that your suggestion raises because, if we tax mail-order trade, it will not only concern the big platforms. One might wonder if it would not be more useful to develop digital equipment and the practices that go with and share – one may regret it, but one must see it – a number of our fellow citizens. I note that we will facilitate access to these practices for independent businesses, especially for bookstores, and beyond the urgency, as we are implementing, as part of the recovery plan, a bookstore plan with €53 million to modernise and assist the entire book industry. In addition, the recovery plan provides €400 million under the so-called PIA 4 – the fourth investment programme for the future – to develop digital equipment for bookstores. The practices I have mentioned are increasingly being adopted by our citizens and the sector needs to be adapted to enable it to have access to digital equipment. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] But I would like to remind the national representative that there will be nothing better, as soon as we can, than to go back to the bookstores, to talk with the booksellers, to talk with other readers – including our readers if we are a writer – and to choose our books because the bookstore is, like a showroom, a magical place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u39	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u40	Minister, in February 2019, the Government launched the experiment of the pass culture, a promise of the President of the Republic for a democratization of young people's access to culture. Since the start of its experimental phase, the scheme has recorded 115000 active accounts out of the 135000 18-year-olds living in the 14 departments concerned, and more than 610,000 reservations have been made in 18 months. At a time when the impact of covid-19 on the cultural sector amounts to several tens of billion euros, we seek and find solutions every day to strengthen our cultural model; emergency measures in France's recovery plan, we are committed to saving culture in France. What if the pass culture also becomes an element of the revival of culture? The book, which you have just mentioned, represents 55% of reservations. How can the culture pass, in view of this second period of confinement, contribute to the maintenance of the activity of bookstores and publishers? On the other hand, the health prospects, for the time being, totally forcing the physical use of museums, concerts and live shows, how can the pass culture act as a relay of activity for these sectors, now digitally and tomorrow by all means, and achieve that all professional actors seize the opportunities offered by this device? So, Madam Minister, what is the economic potential envisaged by the deployment of the pass culture? How can we reconcile an ambition for youth with a lasting and structural contribution for all sectors of culture throughout France? Can you tell us more about a future generalization of the device?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u41	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u42	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u43	Thank you, Céline Calvez, for asking me this question, which will allow me to answer, more broadly, some of the other points made in the opening statements. Every day, culture passes is experiencing a growing dynamic, and you are right to point out the figures: it is now 115000 young people, in the fourteen departments of experimentation, who are registered on the platform, and 610,000 reservations have been made. After a calm assessment which I wished to carry out as soon as I arrived at the head of this ministry, I proposed new guidelines to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister. Arbitrations are under way. The aim is to make it possible to extend the application to all 18 year olds throughout the country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u45	... while building a better articulation with the artistic and cultural education course during the last years of high school. Culture must not be something that suddenly happens at the age of 18: it is a journey, a tamement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u46	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u47	The culture pass must offer its users personalized paths, introduce new individual and collective practices. Thus, we are thinking about raising the amount of the Pass to 300 euros – which would correspond to the practices found – while enriching the offer available on the platform, in particular through free offers. The current system of subceilings certainly deserves to be both simplified and better adapted. Young people use the pass above all to book physical offers, which account for 75% of bookings, the first of which is books – which we will not regret... More than 300,000 pounds were purchased through this process. And you are right to point out that the culture pass really has a role to play in the current circumstances to maintain access to books and to support bookstores. All those who offer a "click and take" service are reported as such on the app, and its users can continue to buy books – the e-book is also offered, even if its success is less. Culture also has a role to play in reviving the cultural sector as a whole. This is why partnerships are established in many sectors, as recently with the cinema industry – Pathé Gaumont, CGR Cinémas, Cinéville – in addition to special operations with museums – the Palais de Tokyo for example. Today, there are more than 4000 cultural places listed and, each month, more than a hundred new places offer a wide range of offers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I believe that the cultural pass must remain in line with the original ambition that you recalled: to promote the cultural emancipation of young people from the age of 18 – and even before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u48	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u49	I call the credits of the "Culture" mission, listed in state B. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2506.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u50	With this amendment, Members of the La France insoumée group propose to assist French museums. The funds allocated by the Government for 2021 will not be able to compensate for the difficulties they have faced since the beginning of the health crisis. I would remind you that in July and August, museum attendance declined by 70 per cent or more. Therefore, losses due to confinement could not be compensated, on the contrary. We propose to create a museum support fund to support their activity next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u52	Mr Larive, these EUR 50 million are already available under the appropriations of the recovery plan. The large national institutions, which I mentioned in my speech, receive massive support, amounting to hundreds of millions; But provincial museums are also important. Indeed, it is good to talk about the great Parisian cultural institutions, but let's not forget the rest of the country! Between the normal credits and the recovery plan, these museums will benefit from some 50 million over two years, this funding being in line with the efforts made in recent years. I invite you to visit the Ingres-Bourdelle museum in Montauban, which has just been renovated with substantial state aid, or, remarkable achievement, the museum of Picardie in Amiens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u53	One of the most beautiful museums in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u54	In 2021, these aids should concern the Alpine Museum in Chamonix and other interesting establishments. The state is therefore making a real effort for provincial museums, I would like to emphasize. Opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u56	Same opinion. Gilles Carrez recalled, the efforts are considerable: 123 million euros in the recovery plan, 99 million of which from 2021 onwards, aim to support the resumption of the activity of the national museums. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the sterile nature of the incessant debate between the major national operators and the regions. Large museums play a role as an animation, bridgehead and resource centre for the entire museum structure of our country: some of them operate in the regions through very powerful activities such as lending works or managing a series of provincial museums. So, gracefully, let us stop this sterile opposition between the major national operators and the province – I like this term, like that of "region", if we connect to another school. In any event, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u57	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u58	I do not agree at all with you on the sterility of the opposition between the budgets of provincial museums and those of the major museum operators, because they capture the vast majority of the money allocated to museums. As far as the recovery plan is concerned, I am waiting for the vote on PLFR 4: we will see if the 50 million you are talking about, Mr Carrez, are there; for the time being, we are in expectation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u59	No, we're not in expectation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u60	Today, we are looking at the proposed budget, far from these assumptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u61	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u62	Today, the vast majority of provincial museums – since this term is used in the past – depend on local authorities. State aid therefore translates, as the Minister pointed out, into investment aid for the renovation and upgrading of reserves or exhibition spaces, by accompanying exhibitions and dissemination. But the dedicated budgets are well there, in sharp increase; As for operating costs, they are the responsibility of the communities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Today, the circulation of works is much more important than about twenty years ago: the large bridgeheads radiate throughout the territory through the loans and deposits of national collections, but also foreign ones thanks to the international collaborations they have developed. So I find it a little difficult to understand why you want to increase the state's contribution, while it is already increasing in this budget significantly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u63	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u64	[[Smile]] I thank Mr Gérard for validating my remarks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u65	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2558.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u66	We want to remove the culture pass and allocate the funds to a new programme entitled "Democratisation of culture". The PLF 2021 proposes a rise in the power of the pass culture, to allow it to reach 200,000 young people, or double its audience. In a survey published in November 2019, Mediapart's website reveals that "the book comes at the top of the pass's spending but is mainly directed to the classics programmed in the school setting, followed by music, three quarters of which go to the Deezer streaming platform". In addition, young beneficiaries spent on average only 100 euros out of the 500 allocated, explained Damien Cuier, president of SAS – a simplified stock company – in charge of managing the pass culture, on 23 October 2019, before the National Council of Performing Professions. The usefulness of the device is increasingly being questioned. We believe that the funds allocated to it should instead be used for a genuine democratization of culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u67	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u68	I recognize that the beginnings of the culture pass were difficult, but it was necessary to invent everything: create the application, put all the actors around the table, convince them to design offers especially for young people, sometimes even to make them free; The emphasis was on communicating with young people in order to promote the scheme. Progress remains to be made, but the results are not as catastrophic as you say. Without going back to the Minister's detailed explanations in response to a question raised earlier, I think you are making it a political symbol because this project to democratize culture is a promise of the President of the Republic. Yet, in the current context, it is a formidable stimulus. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u70	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u71	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u72	In the context of the examination in the Committee on Finance of the appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, of which I am draftsman, we have also proposed the creation of a youth pass. In our discussions with various interlocutors, Tony Estanguet and the secretary of the Secours populaire expressed the same concern: this pass should be designed from an educational rather than a hyper-consumer perspective. Because that's what happens with the pass culture, which is just a check to buy, without an educational component. Let's say it rawly: the big platforms are getting tired enough to get them extra funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u73	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u74	It is not just President Macron who has said that democratizing culture is a priority. Many of the Presidents of the Republic and the Ministers of Culture have done so. It remains to be seen whether public policies, deployed for forty to fifty years with this – sincere – ambition work. Unfortunately, they have suffered rather setbacks. When the cultural pass was created, we expressed our reservations, including because similar arrangements had been put in place in other countries or even in some French communities. Today, we see that these reservations are confirmed, not only in terms of purchasing and resale systems, but also as an advantaged public. In this budget, the Government would like to spend more money on culture, but we would like to understand whether these 20 million will be used to expand a mechanism whose shortcomings are proven or to reorient it, taking into account the reservations we have expressed from the outset. For the time being, our doubts have not been removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u75	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u76	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u77	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As chair of the book and paper economy study group, I would like to make a point: it is surprising to say that the culture pass has no educational aim while stressing – and regretting – that it targets the classics programmed in the school setting. It is known that teachers sometimes find it difficult to buy books, especially classics, from students; But let us not oppose classical literature and that which is not: reading is important, and we must read everything. I don't understand this attack on the school curriculum classics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u78	Who's attacking the classics?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u79	No one attacked them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u80	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u81	We point out the platforms that would get wasted, but if we talk about Deezer, four fifths of the company's 600 employees work in France. Deezer is a French company, which pays its taxes in France and has the merit of accompanying consumption – that's not a big word – legal cultural products, at a time when the fight against piracy remains a priority. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, it is to be hoped that, gradually, thanks to the new policy led by the Minister, we will move towards mediation and practice. Indeed, the pass culture also gives access to dance, music or drawing classes, and this orientation must be encouraged. We must accompany and monitor the rise of the system, as we do in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, but without pointing the finger at the Deezer platform, which is also the pride of France and which respects the rules in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u82	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u83	I did not plan to speak on the culture pass now because I will defend an amendment earlier to reduce the budget allocation for the benefit of the heritage, but the increase of EUR 20 million in the budget can only challenge us at a time when we see the flaws in the system that we have pointed out from the beginning. In fact, experiments in fourteen departments show that the pass is far from being used at 100%. You are rightly considering reducing the amount of the pass, but at the same time deciding to increase the budget. In the Committee on Cultural Affairs, we have asked for a report that will take stock of its use and its articulation with the territorial cultural passes proposed by certain communities – departments or even regions. We are all mobilized for culture and present to discuss the budget; We all share the desire to democratize and promote access to culture. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But we are concerned about the use of the pass: despite the promotion we have just received from Deezer, the pass culture should lead young people to cultural territories that they do not yet know; This is the main objective of the Republican Group. Deciding to increase the budget by 20 million euros while the experiment did not work in fourteen departments seems surprising to say the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u84	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u85	I fully agree with the statement just made. It is not a question of saying that we are against this tool, but of understanding why it does not work as we would like. As I pointed out in the introduction and as the data show, there is a lack of the target of the device that the most difficult students have difficulty in appropriating themselves. For being a professional high school teacher, I know we can't create a desire among these young people to use the culture pass. If it is to be maintained, it must be improved. In any case – but you mentioned it – it cannot replace other measures aimed at reviving young people's desire and taste for other cultures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u86	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1098.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u87	We are all convinced here that culture creates emotions in us; It helps us to build ourselves, to open ourselves to the world, to flourish. Culture, more than ever, is a vehicle for social cohesion and school must make it accessible to all. It certainly covers artistic and cultural practice, but also encounters and confrontations with artists and the discovery of places of art. In some territories, school remains the only access to culture. In order for it to provide children with a basis of general culture, it must be given the means to do so – this is the aim of the amendment. This is a project that I have defended very much, as principal of school, as as a elected person in charge of culture in a small commune. I've often fought to find credits, because I'm sure it's through school that everything has to go through. Moreover, this year, such a measure would achieve a dual objective, helping our cultural actors to continue to exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u89	Unfavorable. I agree on the importance of giving priority to artistic and cultural education, but the necessary appropriations are already largely included in the PLF for 2021, with an additional 7.2 million to, among other things, consolidate the development of territorial-reading contracts or continue the dynamics of cultural summer. There is no shortage of funds. Instead, in 2020, the challenge was to consume all ABC's credits, particularly as a result of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u91	Unfavorable. The Special Rapporteur has excellently explained that the credits dedicated to artistic and cultural education were already at the meeting in this PLF. With regard to the culture pass, which is in the process of gestation, I am the first to recognize that it still has defects. Generalisation is a response, the only way to improve certain aspects, in particular communication. The experience is decorated, and I am obviously at the disposal of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education to discuss it at a meeting. You are right to stress the importance of linking the device with regional experiences. I say it all the more readily since I was vice-president responsible for the planning of the region that invented the pass culture, under the auspices of Olivier Guichard – my old age gives me the privilege to evoke some personal memories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u92	Ah, the Pays de la Loire!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u93	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, the Pays de la Loire invented the pass culture, I can't help it! That was almost fifty years ago! I believe fundamentally in the usefulness of such tools. The cultural practices of the French have changed. Arts and cultural education cannot be confused with culture, which is based on the autonomy of citizens. They choose what they want: it does not mean that they are not guided or not informed, but their approach is autonomous, and it must be encouraged in that it also participates in a political project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u94	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u95	My proposal was precisely about artistic and cultural education, not culture. Earlier, Madam Minister, you said that not everything starts at the age of 18; I look forward to your commitment to the journey, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u96	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u97	I shall come back to the matter in an amendment. We have been asking questions on this topic for three years! Minister, you have just said that culture pass is a political project aimed at promoting autonomy. But we all know that artistic and cultural education is essential for the development of autonomy. How do you want to get 18 years of a pass culture to promote autonomy, if no work has been done upstream?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u98	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u99	The pass culture promotes the autonomy of those who have the means of this autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u100	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2647.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u101	As I explained in my opening remarks, this amendment echoes the bill I tabled last week. There is an urgent need to create a national centre for artists-authors – CNAA – that would respond to a strong aspiration of creative professionals. Minister, you said you heard me. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore urge you to vote for the appropriations necessary for this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u103	The artist-author plan will come into effect in 2021: I grant you that it was time. The PLF for 2021 provides EUR 20 million for the follow-up to the Racine report. The aim is to defend the interests of artists, their social rights and their representativeness. You support the creation of a national centre of artists-authors, but artists-authors do not make up an informed mass; There are writers, sculptors, painters and musicians as well as translators, for example. Not everyone has the same needs, the same concerns, and the same demands. I am not sure that your proposal meets an expectation from them. This year's priority seems to me to be to accompany them through the crisis. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u105	I'm very active on the subject. The artist-author plan must first respond to emergency situations, in particular concerning the dysfunctions observed by the Unions of Recovery for Social Security and Family Allowances – USSRAF – and the payment of social benefits. These problems are not the responsibility of my ministry, but of solidarity and health, and more specifically of the Directorate of Social Security. However, believe that I am mobilizing on this issue in order to obtain solutions before the end of 2020, because it is intolerable for people not to receive the social benefits to which they are entitled. These malfunctions need to be addressed in an emergency, and this does not require any new structures. Secondly, as the Special Rapporteur has indicated, new resources have been identified. In my view, your proposal, which I may agree with in some time, deserves to be analysed. It must be admitted that the environment is very divided – through armed conflicts, if I may say so. Indeed, the interests are very diverse. While some call for a single structure, many of them do not subscribe to it. To have certain artists-authors of the literary milieu represented by a sculptor or photographer would provoke violent epidermal reactions – that is the least one can say. I am conducting an in-depth consultation, so let's give him time to make it happen. I set myself short deadlines for better protection of artists-authors. Your amendment therefore seems premature; I also ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u106	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u107	A few months ago, Pascal Bois and I were co-rapporteurs of a flash mission on the status of authors for the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. The question was whether to create a statute for the authors and what should happen to the conclusions of the famous Racine report. Of the many consultations and consultations that we have conducted, we have concluded that the creation of a national centre for artists-authors, i.e. a great additional thing, is certainly not desirable, let alone a priority. There are urgent questions, as the Minister has just said, about social benefits or the provision of pensions: the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health are working to answer them. On the other hand, it would be a bad idea to amalgamate in a large structure, of which it is unknown who would lead it, how much it would cost and what it would serve, people whose profiles, interests and life paths differ greatly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is good, sometimes, to do the after-sales service of our reports, news missions and other flash missions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u109	Absolutely! Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u110	There is a nomenclature that details who are the artists-authors: you only need to know. The sectors concerned are, I believe, seventeen or a little more. The artistic world is not responsible for the division that reigns within it: it is due to the way in which it is managed by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u111	It's gonna be my fault again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u112	Public authorities work in silos and divide sectors of activity, while the issue of creation is cross-cutting. Just as during the examination of the bill introduced at our niche in 2019, you confuse creation and dissemination. I am opposed to subsidies and ad hoc aids, they are in their interest, but they are aid for dissemination. There is no permanent system of support for creation, apart from ad hoc actions, which are carried out by local authorities rather than by the State, which selects the major actors, those who have already been identified, without going to search for the actors on the ground, who need these subsidies. You raise the serious problem of the social protection of artists-authors. In this regard, the CNAA would be an effective tool, a one-stop shop to see a little clearer in the maquis of social benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u113	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u114	Precariousness is the thread that connects all artists-authors, regardless of their field of activity: 70% of them live below the poverty line; They have to have another job to live. This is reality, and in all artistic sectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u115	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 2534.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u116	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group, to which Mrs Valérie Rabault is particularly committed, aims to increase the support appropriations for higher education institutions and vocational integration by EUR 33 million in order to bring them back to their 2017 level. Indeed, the €8 million increase proposed in this budget is not sufficient to compensate for the reductions voted by the majority in the three previous finance laws. For example, between 2017 and 2020, funding for higher education institutions and vocational integration fell by €41 million, a 15% decrease. We believe that greater support should be given to higher education institutions and to efforts to integrate into the labour market, particularly in the current period when the covid epidemic tends to increase difficulties. The amendment therefore provides for an increase of some 33 million in the appropriations for action 01 "Support for higher education institutions and vocational integration" of programme 361 "Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture" and a decrease of the same amount in action 07 "Support functions of the Ministry" of programme 224. In reality, Socialist and related MPs do not wish to reduce the means devoted to the support functions of the ministry, but the admissibility rules oblige them to provide for such a transfer. In fact, we call on the Government to raise the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u118	Unfavorable opinion. As you have pointed out, the institutions of the higher education network culture – ESC – are receiving additional funding this year. They are also supported on an ongoing basis, even when expensive. I would point out that the average cost of a student is significantly higher in these schools than in general higher education. In addition, these establishments will be able to benefit from investment aid under the Recovery Plan, as well as from the thermal renovation envelope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u119	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1095, 2530 and 2617, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1095 and 2530 are identical. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1095.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u120	We would like to return to the situation of our public schools of art and design which issue national diplomas and which have been reformed to fully integrate the higher education system. They carry out research activities through programmes and third cycles funded by the Ministry of Culture. However, this funding has remained at an early stage: undersized, it does not include a permanent share, the funds being allocated only through a call for projects. The research envelope, distributed between Actions 01 and 04, has not changed for many years. It amounts to EUR 1 million, i.e. on average EUR 18,000 per school, an insufficient amount to finance the operation of research units, the production, dissemination and exploitation of projects, to the extent that the validity of national diplomas is at risk. The amendment therefore aims to allocate 3 million to Action 04 "Cultural research and scientific and technical culture" of programme 361.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u121	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2530.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u122	Mrs. Descamps defended him very well. I would just add that we are very attentive to this question. These amendments are almost right: we must talk again about art schools and clarify their situation. If they receive only 18,000 euros on average to finance their research units, it is because we have still not solved the problem of their status and we are swinging between different systems. If we want the place of French creation to be recognised in artistic and cultural education, if educational institutions can fight against private schools, which are very numerous in the field of art, and if France defends this project to the point of becoming a leader, which would seem logical, we must take strong decisions. The subject is linked to the previous debate – even though this is about the "top" of training. Earlier, I may have been misunderstood when I spoke of those who begin in cultural practice. The missing link, when it comes to artistic and cultural education – EAC – is school: artistic education is still not considered fundamental. However, to begin an artistic practice, you must have keys and a language to gain access to the understanding of works. I don't think the ABC can do it alone. These issues do not depend strictly on your department, minister, but the whole thing deserves to be rethought. From school to college and high school, artistic education should be provided that gives the keys to understanding. A music teacher can do nothing when he sees only one hour a week of classes of thirty students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u123	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 2617.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u124	This withdrawal amendment seeks at least to perpetuate the EUR 1 million envelope, which is not considerable, by increasing by EUR 520000 the appropriations for Action 04 "Cultural research and scientific and technical culture" of programme 361 "Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture", which currently devotes only EUR 480000 to support art research within the network of higher national and territorial schools of art. I know that your department is preparing an in-depth analysis of cultural research needs in our territories in order to consider next year an increase in budgets. However, it has been several years since the art and design schools in our territories called for a re-evaluation of their research funding. It seems to me important to make a limited gesture in their favour today: the amendment concerns only a small amount.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u125	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u126	I agree with you on the need to increase the resources allocated to research in higher education culture, but this means increasing the human resources in institutions in order to enable teachers to obtain landfills. This is what I will propose with an amendment dedicated to schools of architecture. Reform of the status of associate professor and lecturer is also under way. The year 2021 is expected to make some progress. In substance, since the law on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage or LCAP, there has been a real ambition to develop research for higher education culture. The Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, which I was able to hear, expresses its enthusiasm for all the activities carried out in the research communities. Is there a need for more resources? The question must also be asked. In the meantime, I suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u128	Same opinion. These complex subjects deserve in-depth consultation with the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, as well as with the local authorities that host these schools. Since such consultation is not carried out, I have the feeling that these amendments constitute a form of chapeau to launch the debate. But we really need to start from a state of affairs and figure out what needs to be done. In this particular context, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u129	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u130	No, minister, we are not here to launch a debate, which has been done for a long time. Last year, we had exactly the same exchanges. On the side of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, we were assured that our amendment was good and the reality of the needs was acknowledged. However, we were advised to contact the Ministry of Culture. He also noted the needs, but referred us to the Ministry of Research. As a result, nothing happened for a year. I was convinced that, thanks to the amendments that we had tabled under the PBDA – Research Programming Act 2021-2030 – we had started something. In any event, our amendments are in no way a starting point. In our mind, we could take an important step forward. I really believed that 520,000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u131	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u132	Madam Minister, we do not want to be unpleasant with you, but you tell us that we need to start a dialogue. It's been ten years. Urban France has made a fairly comprehensive study. At the end of a flash mission, Fabienne Colboc and I submitted a report last year to your predecessor. On this question, there were four possible avenues. We were promised things would progress. Of course, you didn't answer us, but the case has been dragging on for ten years. Perhaps we need to go through an interdepartmental way, because we are at a crossroads of policies that relate to both culture, research and territorial communities, and some issues can be understood differently depending on whether they are considered by communities or departments. In any case, the situation is urgent. We're really asking you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u133	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u134	I understand the statements made by Mrs Descamp and Mrs Victory. It's a real subject, which I thank them for asking. We have discussed it in committee and I am at their disposal to discuss it. In my view, we must stop reasoning from the institution. It would be better to do so on the basis of training not only in art schools, but also in art history schools or, more technical, in architecture. Reflecting on the formations, we will see that bridges can be created in the ministries. This is what we need to work on: it is a question of method rather than objectives. To give an example, as part of the training of conservators, the National School of Heritage has just created a PhD through the project with the University of Cergy-Pontoise. This is indeed a collaboration between two ministries and two institutions which build a specific path for a profession in part technical and in part intellectual. We will bring our conservators up into competence by having two universes dialogue that were not talking to each other. In order to move forward, it is best not to table an amendment on a budget mission, but to carry out a substantive reflection and make calls for projects, which is already being done. What is missing today is the projects co-built by different ministries that cross their fields of competence. We'll go back to architecture. In the meantime, although it recognizes the importance of the subject, the LaREM Group will not vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u135	The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No. 2286.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u136	This amendment aims to cover the costs of enrolment of scholarship students in territorial art schools, by allocating an additional 2.5 million to Action 01 "Support for higher education institutions and vocational integration" of the 361 programme "Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture", so that higher schools of territorial art can exempt scholarship students from registration fees. These 2.5 million euros are calculated for a student scholarship rate of 45%, or 4275 students, and for an average enrolment fee of 600 euros. This amount will be taken from the 175 "Heritage" programme, Action 01 "Historical Monuments and Monumental Heritage", to finance the work of the Grand Palais. Indeed, the State has renounced the most pharaonic aspects of this project without reducing the overall budget of the works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u137	On Amendment No 1900, which will be called in a moment, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u138	The exemption you are claiming depends not only on the state, but also on the local and regional authorities. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the Department of Culture is paying particular attention to ESC scholarship students. Social criteria grants – totaling €25 million, an increase of €3 million over 2020 – are calculated on the same model as higher education grants. As the committee has not examined the amendment, I am not giving an opinion on my own initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u140	Your amendment raises two questions, which I have to answer. The first concerns the work of the Grand Palais. At first glance, it could be assumed that the EUR 466 million entered for this work correspond to the appropriations originally planned and that no savings are achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u142	In fact, the initial project – which you described as pharaonic, like others before you – provided for a much higher amount of work, ranging from 550 to 580 million euros, or at least a hundred million euros. In addition, some works had not been considered at the time, in particular those required by the massive deterioration of the façades of the Grand Palais, including statues and architectural elements found there. If you have the pleasure of strolling along the Grand Palais,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u143	[[Smile]] It's less than a mile from here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u144	...you will find that all these elements are covered with nets, in order to protect walkers. The amount of appropriations therefore deserved to be updated. In addition, 30 million of the 466 million registered correspond to a precautionary reserve. So we went from 580 million to 436 million. By reducing the amount of work to 466 million, we have reduced the financial envelope very substantially, by more than 100 million. In other words, we cannot at all regard the Grand Palais's appropriations as a reserve of money in which we could use to finance a particular action, as legitimate as it may be. I would point out that the Grand Palais has a larger surface than the Palace of Versailles and that it is a structural architectural element of the Parisian landscape. In addition, a number of sporting events are to be held at the Olympic Games. So we have both a time constraint and an architectural construction site to lead in the best way. I am at your disposal to present this work in detail. As far as the second question is concerned, that of scholarships and student assistance, I absolutely agree with the Special Rapporteur. In this finance bill, a €4.8 million package of new measures is devoted to improving the living and study conditions of students, which are in full compliance with those of other students in higher education. In addition, I would point out that the recovery plan includes a very large amount of €70 million in support of higher education for culture. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u145	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u146	However, it would be good for scholarship students in schools under the Ministry of Culture to be exempt from registration fees, like all other scholarship students. To the extent that you wish to review the proposed renovation of the Grand Palais, Madam Minister, would it not be appropriate to entrust this renovation to the private sector, as has been done for the Hotel de la Marine, in order to reduce substantially the budget and to raise public money that would make it possible to finance something else in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u147	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u148	Our group supports the amendment tabled by the rapporteur for an opinion. Everything that affects student life is important. It appears that scholarship holders are not treated in the same way in the various schools under the Ministry of Culture. Some of them have made the decision to exempt their students from registration fees. In others, on the other hand, scholarships are paid very late. A global view of the situation should be given and things should be made more homogeneous, so that all students have the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u149	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u150	For my part, I will not enter into the debate balancing student scholarships and the work of the Grand Palais. Thank you, Minister, for your clarification of this work. I defend the Grand Palais, not because I am an elected member of Paris, but because I am aware of what it represents for France. The building had already been the subject of important work, thanks to one of your predecessors, Jacques Toubon. If he hadn't fought, the Grand Palais would no longer exist. The amounts you have mentioned may indeed seem pharaonic and give rise to vertigo – even to us – especially since the bill may eventually be 500 million rather than 450. The Cultural Affairs Committee had planned this week a trip to the Grand Palais, which was obviously cancelled. You have just proposed to present the work in more detail to the committee, as you mentioned earlier the possibility of coming to debate with us on the culture pass. This proposal is in your honour, and I thank you for that. I hope that it will not remain a dead letter and that this very important information will be available to us. We are thirsty for a better understanding of the measures we are taking; They are sometimes examined in a few minutes in the Chamber. Of course, I support the construction of the Grand Palais.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u151	On Amendment No 1770, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2524.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u152	It aims to open 10 additional posts – 10 full-time equivalents – in the National Higher Schools of Architecture. The reform launched in 2018 aims to support research in the ENSA. To this end, it is necessary to create a substantial number of posts, in order to grant discharges to teachers-researchers. In 2017, the Ministry of Higher Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture agreed on a protocol. It would appear that the former met its commitments by creating 30 positions in 2016 and 2017. This is in any case what Minister Frédérique Vidal replied when I tabled an amendment on this subject on the "Research" mission. For its part, the Ministry of Culture created 45 posts in 2017 and 2019, in accordance with its commitments, and then its effort was interrupted: no posts were created in 2020 and only 5 posts are opened in the Finance Bill for 2021. This figure is far from the commitment made: the Ministry of Culture should have created 15 posts in 2021 to meet the protocol's trajectory. Rather, it is an appeal amendment, Madam Minister, inviting you to reinvigorate the interdepartmental momentum on this issue. In order to finance the creation of these 10 posts, I propose to transfer EUR 700000 from Action 01 from Programme 131 "Creation" to Action 07 of Programme 224 "Support for the policies of the Ministry of Culture". Of course, the aim is not to reduce the appropriations for creation, but I had to meet the requirements of the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u154	Madam Special Rapporteur and author of the amendment, the Ministry of Culture has fulfilled its role. Of the 75 posts created, 45 were created by the Ministry of Higher Education and 30 by the Ministry of Higher Education. I defend my home, because the most common feeling is that we are the ones who are hanging out in this field; This is not the reality in this case. The reform of the ENSA introduced in 2018, which you mentioned, is very positive. Its aim is to consolidate architecture in the higher education and research landscape, by strengthening the autonomy and territorial and professional anchoring of schools and by creating two new bodies of teachers-researchers. The Ministry of Culture has made a significant effort, which I have just highlighted. It will continue to do so in 2021, creating 5 additional posts. Only five posts, will you tell me? In the context of the great constraint we have on public employment, these 5 positions are a strong signal. In fact, it took a strong negotiation to get them, as you can imagine. I would add that the ENSA will benefit from EUR 39 million as part of the recovery plan for their real estate renovation. Finally, a mission of the General Inspectorate of Cultural Affairs was launched to take stock; It is now a matter of building a perfectly sustainable trajectory. I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will have to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u155	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u156	I would like to take advantage of the examination of this amendment to launch an alarm call on the state of architecture in our country. We need architects, and we need to pilot a real architectural policy, which is currently split between four ministries, if not five, if we take into account the research dimension. Architects are able to provide innovative solutions, particularly in the area of renovation. It is urgent that we become aware of this, because we are losing know-how and talent, who are going to work abroad, all because of a lack of coordination of public policies relevant to architecture. There is indeed a need to support research. I fully hear your arguments, Madam Minister. You indicate that the Ministry of Culture plays its role; the other actors must follow and support the architecture. It is a strength of our country; It's the heritage of tomorrow; It's innovation, especially in the framework of Action Cœur de Ville and Small Cities plans of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u157	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u158	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u159	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1900.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u160	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u161	This amendment relates to the culture pass. Its consideration could provide us with further explanations. In the Finance Act for 2020, it is specified that the experimental phase in the fourteen departments concerned will last until February 2022. However, the budget has never been spent in its entirety: according to a first review, the rate of use of the pass culture in these fourteen departments was 74% and only 16 million of the additional EUR 29 million allocated by the Finance Act for 2020 was consumed. It is therefore surprising that, by 2021, you were planning to increase the appropriations for the cultural pass by another EUR 20 million. On the other hand, the Republican Group notes – I think you will agree – that we have a problem with private heritage. The two special rapporteurs, Gilles Carrez and Valérie Bazin-Malgras, noted earlier, and Constance Le Grip, who is particularly involved in the group of studies on heritage, which she co-chairs and of which I have the honour to be a member, confirms this. We therefore want to focus on private heritage. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] That is why we propose to postpone the increase of 20 million for the pass culture – I repeat that I do not understand this increase in view of the current consumption of appropriations – on the "Heritage" programme. Private wealth will be very happy to recover this money. In this regard, I have a special thought for Mr Stéphane Bern, who is our common friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u163	We have already discussed the culture pass extensively. In a context of economic crisis, it is an opportunity for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u164	We didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u165	It empowers them to access culture at a time when families can experience a difficult situation. It's also an opportunity for teachers – we talked a lot about arts and cultural education. It's a tool that allows them to discover culture, if they want to take it. Finally, it is an opportunity for cultural actors, as it indirectly finances their activities. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore, of course, give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u166	All this has nothing to do with the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u168	I would like to reiterate my willingness to be heard by the Committee on Cultural Affairs as often as you wish. And since the information is requested from me, here are, in extenso, the figures that I have at my disposal with regard to the pass culture; the provision of a report does not seem necessary. After a first experiment in five departments – Finistère, Bas-Rhin, Seine-Saint-Denis, Hérault and Guiana – a total of fourteen departments have been involved in the deployment of the cultural pass since June 2019. The other departments of the Brittany region now participate in the experiment, where the pass is a great success, the Val-de-Marne, the Vaucluse, the Doubs, the Ardennes, the Nièvre and the Saône-et-Loire. The results I'm about to give you are stopped by October 20, 2020, but they evolve every day. In the fourteen departments participating in the experiment, the participation rate was 81%: 110000 of the 135000 eligible accounts were activated. The utilization rate appears to be rising sharply, reaching 71%, with 78160 active accounts. On average, over a period of nine months, 128 euros per user were spent. A total of 4253 cultural venues participate in the operation, bringing together nearly 2.5 million offers. Among these, books, with 58.2% of reservations, are the most requested, ahead of music – 15.3% of reservations – and audiovisual – 10.3% of reservations. This represents 64.1% of physical assets, compared with 26.1% of digital assets and 9.8% of events. It should be noted that these figures are in breach of the commonly accepted idea that digital would have captured the lion's share in the expenditure of the pass culture. As far as heritage is concerned, I would like first of all to welcome the action of my friend Stéphane Bern, who, thanks to the new edition of the Heritage Lotto, has made it possible to collect €20 million, which could reach – let us dream a bit – €30 million this year. It is also important to stress the extraordinary effort for the heritage that is being made in the PLF for 2021 and in the recovery plan. Of course, the figures are in no way comparable, since the appropriations for the Heritage programme amount to EUR 1,015 billion, of which more than EUR 170 million will be devoted to monuments which do not belong to the State, which is a significant support. I would add that, over the past three years, these appropriations allocated to private monuments have generated a leverage effect of 2. As for the recovery plan, it provides for the sum of EUR 40 million in favour of non-state historical monuments, an amount which, according to our estimates, could generate EUR 120 million in expenditure, since private owners will benefit from important tax deductions and the communities, from the recovery of VAT. Far from me the desire to minimize the merits of Stéphane Bern, but the funds derived from the heritage lottery thus appear to be the accompaniment of a massive effort by the State in favour of heritage. For these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u169	A large number of Members wish to speak. Therefore, please be concise so that our discussions can proceed at a reasonable pace. The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u170	I am well aware that private heritage needs additional budgets; We agree on this point. But, for my part, it is not on the budget line of the pass culture that I would have taken these appropriations, but on the budget line relating to the renovation of the Grand Palais.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u171	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u172	[[Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applauds]] I would like to convey the voice of the overseas countries and territories by recalling that in Guyana, culture passes are a great tool for access to culture, especially for young people, who are often far from it. Rather than calling it into question, we are almost certain that it will need to be strengthened, by giving it access to a younger age or by increasing the amount. I repeat, the pass culture is very effective overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u174	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u175	The EUR 20 million I propose to spend on heritage would not be withdrawn from the appropriations currently allocated to the cultural pass, but would correspond to the increase expected for 2021 and 2022. In fact, EUR 84 million and EUR 104 million are planned for this operation over the next two years, in the absence of a truly comprehensive assessment of the experiment and while confinement reduces the possibilities of going to the show or to a museum. I repeat, our will is not to amputate the pass culture, but simply not to increase it, in order to dedicate these additional funds to the heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have also insisted, Madam Special Rapporteur, on the need to democratise access to culture. But I never said the other way around! The members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs are all convinced of this. From the beginning, we defend the culture pass. But there is also a need for a pragmatic logic in the allocation of available appropriations. If you were a member of our committee, the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, you would understand what we are talking about. Our goal is both to improve the culture pass and to increase the credits dedicated to heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u176	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u177	Thank you, Minister, for providing us with these figures. You also make sure that we want to continue the discussion with us: it is indeed necessary, because these figures say nothing, or almost anything, about the achievement of the ambition of cultural democratization. Your figures tell us what types of cultural goods are consumed, but not by whom. However, you are well aware that in order to evaluate a cultural policy and, in this case, the extent of the democratisation it allows, we need to cross-check these quantitative data with demographic and sociological data. Otherwise, we would not have enough information to judge its effectiveness. However, the figures you give us say something important: the goods consumed are mainly books, audiovisual content and music, which means that the pass culture has little effect on what is already very little consumed by young people, i.e. shows or exhibitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u179	These figures therefore feed our reservations, since they show that the process of democratisation is not even underway. It is therefore necessary to evaluate the scheme before it is generalised, as the risk is to continue a programme that is not moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u180	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u181	There is a need to remove an ambiguity, because there has been a similar confusion in our debates in committee. What does state aid cover for the heritage and restoration of monuments, particularly private ones? As the Minister pointed out, the state intervenes massively in favour of protected heritage, i.e. listed as historical monuments, whether public or private. There is also an unprotected private property for which the third amending finance law for 2020, thanks to a proposal by Senator Dominique Verérie, has provided for the extension of the Heritage Foundation's label, which gives entitlement to tax deductions. It should be noted that these are not negligible and allow private owners of unprotected monuments to restore their buildings. [[Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applauds]] I do not believe that it is necessary to increase the envelope devoted to unprotected private heritage. The support it receives, whether it is State aid or tax provisions, is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u182	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u183	Sophie Mette and I carried out a flash mission on the Heritage Lotto for which we auditioned Mr. Bern. The latter had raised very great reservations as to the actual share of the product granted to the heritage by the French gaming company. Indeed, since only 10% of the bets go back to the Heritage Foundation, the expected gain this year – which you say the minister would be 30 million euros – means that the heritage lottery actually pays 300 million. In this regard, Mr Bern told us that, in the case of an operation which is rather directed towards the general public, we could have foreseen that a larger part of its product would benefit the heritage – especially since French gaming is now privatized and that it is no longer possible to vary that part. In any case, it is a shame to have to rely on a game of money to work for the national heritage. It is a public action for which the Ministry of Culture alone should have responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u184	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1900.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u185	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 94 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 10 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u186	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1770.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u187	In your opinion, Madam Minister, the fact that 110,000 accounts have been activated for a total of 135,000 young volunteers proves the effectiveness of the pass culture. But, as Mrs Faucillon pointed out, these quantitative data are not enough. To ensure that a system has achieved its objectives, we obviously need qualitative data. While the objective is to reduce fractures and promote emancipation through culture, it is important to know the profile of the volunteers who have been involved in the experiment for the past three years to know if it has been achieved – and I doubt that this is the case. In the same way, we should also know precisely what has been consumed, beyond the general categories of books or music. In addition, you have told us, Madam Special Rapporteur, that it was necessary, with the passing of culture, to invent everything. I would remind you that all the communities, particularly the regions, had already tried such a mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u188	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u189	I'm sorry, but I was a regional councillor in Île-de-France, where we had launched the culture check. Why has this type of measure often been abandoned? Because it wasn't working! During Emmanuel Macron's presidential campaign, I participated in the working group dedicated to culture and always opposed the culture pass. It had been announced by the future president following its launch in Italy by Matteo Renzi, who had made it a political response to the terrorist attacks of 2015. But we have resumed this initiative without ever thinking about how to develop it according to the needs of the field. If it serves only those who already have a habit of consuming cultural goods or even having the means to do so, I do not believe that we can say that its objective is achieved. However, you are planning an additional €20 million in 2021, when we know that it will be more difficult to visit cultural sites. Added to this problem are those posed by the territorial divide in the field of digital technology – whether it is the offer of networks or their use – and by the unequal access to culture according to the territories: if they are not resolved, the cultural democratisation that you announce – and to which you accuse us of being opposed if we are not in favour of culture pass – will not translate into reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u191	Unfavorable opinion. We have dealt with the subject sufficiently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u193	Unfavorable opinion. I have already explained myself at length.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u194	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u195	[[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] To bounce back on the words of our colleague Frédérique Dumas, I recall that the pass culture was a campaign promise of President Emmanuel Macron, who wanted to make it available via a digital platform financed by the state, broadcasters and GAFAs; I might as well say we're a long way from the point of view. As my colleague Brigitte Kuster has pointed out, the experimental phase has highlighted an under-consumption of appropriations. A few figures: as of 11 September, 93,000 young people out of the 135,000 involved had activated the pass in the test departments, and it was in Brittany that the project won the most membership. Would it not be useful to carry out an impact assessment of the device before it is generalised?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u196	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u197	I would point out that the amendment aims to shift EUR 15 million from cultural passes to support the creation and dissemination of live entertainment and visual arts, which are in great need at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u198	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u199	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1770.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u200	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 92 Number of votes cast 92 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 19 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u201	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1096.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u202	National scenes are a breath of the country's creation and artistic life. Like many actors in the culture community, they have been greatly affected by the health crisis, including cancellations of performances resulting in the reimbursement of tickets. This amendment is intended to draw attention to their difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u204	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to take the floor to respond to the condescending remarks made earlier by Mrs Kuster. Yes, I am a finance commissioner, but I do not only consider myself an accountant; I am the special rapporteur on the culture budget that we are currently considering, and I have replied in that capacity. So I don't accept that kind of comment. Mrs Descamps, an additional EUR 15 million is already foreseen in the draft finance law for subsidized networks in the territories and EUR 30 million is foreseen for the labels in the recovery plan. Subsidised structures are, because of their economic model, somewhat less dependent on ticketing revenues; They have also benefited from partial activity and other measures under ordinary law. Their losses are significant and significant, but you will understand that priority is given to non-subsidized structures. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u205	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, draftswoman, to support Amendment No 2287.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u206	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] It aims to transfer EUR 10 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations from programme 361 to programme 175. The appropriations for Action 02, "Support for democratisation and artistic and cultural education", amount to 222 million; Their use is presented in a very blurred way with multiple and diffuse devices. This EUR 10 million could be better used to support the maintenance and renovation of historic monuments belonging to small municipalities or private owners. That is why the amendment proposes to allocate them to Action 01, "Historical Monuments and Monumental Heritage", of Programme 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u208	I am in favour of our colleague's amendment. Rather, it is a problem of reallocating appropriations within Program 175, but the Financial Laws Act obliges Ms. Bazin-Malgras to submit a transfer of appropriations from one program to another. Why this proposal? Because the state owns only 3% of historical monuments; local authorities by 50%; 44% are in private hands. Even if a major effort is made for the heritage belonging to local authorities and the private sector, we can still increase it, and it would be a good thing to add about 10 million to the 40 million already planned. The incentive fund created two years ago to help finance heritage in small municipalities was a very good initiative, but it is not enough. On the other hand, there may be a problem with the consumption of appropriations, which we shall discuss again on the occasion of Mr Gérard's amendment, because of the lack of accompaniment of works in the field of works management. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to say a word about the Grand Palais. I went there in September 2017 to understand the work at a long meeting with the then president, Sylvie Hubac. At that time, everyone was already wondering about two points: the considerable earthworks planned to accommodate the logistics, and the central street that had to go from the Champs-Elysées to the Seine. We had a doubt about the budget and I had pointed it out in my report by calling your predecessors to vigilance. The development of the project seems to me good since it removes the earthworks and preserves the existing spaces. On the other hand, I was a little worried about your answer, minister. It is necessary to stand at EUR 460 million. We no longer have the right to any overtaking,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u209	No, I didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u210	... especially since almost all of the Ministry's public funds are already available; the remainder of the financing will be by borrowing, with 150 million loans in addition to the 100 million of the IAP, the investment programme of the future. This loan can only be repaid if the commercial revenues are on hand, and I hope that we will adopt for the Grand Palais the same approach that was chosen for the hotel of the Marine, whose case has been exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u211	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you must be very vigilant, and we are here to help you; Parliamentary work also involves evaluating and monitoring this out-of-standard project. Finally, I would add that, if we do not carry out this work, we will be obliged to close the Grand Palais for security reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u213	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur. For the sake of clarity in our debates, was that the opinion of the committee or an opinion in a personal capacity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u214	This is a personal opinion because the amendment has not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u216	I do not see what has bothered you in my remarks on the Grand Palais, Mr. Special Rapporteur. On the contrary, they should reassure you, because I am the subject with great attention. The EUR 30 million precautionary reserve is precisely there to ensure that the budget envelope is respected. In addition, we cancelled several hazards of this project which, in addition to its pharaohic financial character, also presented a danger due to the excavation work planned to create a logistic platform in the basement of the Grand Palais – this one being located on the banks of the Seine, the excavation work was an additional danger to the building, which did not need this. You recalled the budget model of the restoration of the Grand Palais: 150 million loans, 25 million patronage of Chanel; I would add the risk that the delay would have caused on these financial aspects if I had not made a firm decision. I remain at your disposal to answer more carefully any question concerning the Grand Palais, a building which, as Mrs Kuster pointed out, represents a first-rate heritage element in the Parisian landscape. But if we do not act now, the death of the Grand Palace is programmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u217	We are well aware of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u218	We sometimes think that we can wait; This time, really not. With regard to Amendment No 2287, I would point out that Action 02 of Programme 361 aims to compensate for the geographical inequalities in access to cultural supply, the reduction of which is a priority objective. The level of funding allocated for the maintenance and conservation of historic monuments has reached an exceptional level of €270 million in commitment authorisations and €116 million in payment appropriations, and we are providing significant support to historic monuments that are not State property. We are in a decentralised France, which I know is where everyone takes responsibility: there is not on the one hand a state with a huge revenue and, on the other hand, local and regional authorities without any budgetary margin. That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u219	It's called decentralization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u220	We allocate more than 170 million per year to non-state historical monuments on the Heritage Program, representing 70% of deconcentrated historical monuments, with a considerable leverage effect estimated at a minimum of 2. I would also like to point out that the recovery plan provides 40 million for historic "non-state" monuments, which could generate 120 million euros of work. There is also a real problem of credit consumption. When historic monuments are owned by a territorial community or private owners, the subsidy from the state or another community obviously does not reach 100% of the work undertaken. As a result, private owners or small municipalities, even when substantially assisted, often fail to engage in work and budget allocations are not consumed. There is no problem of funding: rather than increasing subsidies, we should think about how to take on the work. I do not see the advantage of structurally increasing this budget line. A small rural commune whose church is in danger will not necessarily spend the necessary money, even if the share of the subsidy provided by the State is increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u221	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u222	I do not understand, minister, why you are talking about the non-consumption of the budget envelopes. I'll check with my DRAC to find out what's going on, but the reality is that on the ground, we can't get credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u223	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u224	Many communes see their church deteriorate without being able to finance the works. If there is a problem with credit consumption, I don't know where it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u225	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1643.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u226	This appeal amendment will allow us to extend the discussion that took place at the moment. Madam draftsman, you say you do not see any problem of under-consumption of appropriations on the ground. I do not entirely agree and I refer you to the report of the flash mission on support for the protected property heritage, which Emmanuelle Anthoine and I had the pleasure of presenting to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. We had identified the blocking points, particularly concerning the assistance with the control of works – this amendment is intended to remedy this. This can be taken over as an exception by the state authorities, as the minister reminded the committee. It should also be recalled to all the department's deconcentrated departments for more frequent use. In the report, we also pointed out the difficulties in closing the round tables, which are due to many reasons. In particular, the multiplicity of financers – state, region, sometimes department, as is the case in my constituency, and private foundation – makes it difficult to gather funding during the same fiscal year, so that the appropriations must be carried forward, and so on. The fundamental question is that of accompanying the municipalities and some private owners in this matter so that they know who to ask for. The aim of the amendment is to create a fund for contract control assistance, which would be entrusted to the deconcentrated departments of the Ministry. However, this is not the only possible answer. In the Great East or Brittany, this assistance could be provided by the region, and therefore be completely decentralized, while of course keeping a link with the relevant departments of the State and the department. In other territories, the department could handle it. In my home, within the EPCI – a public institution for intercommunal cooperation – of the Haute Saintonge, which comprises 129 communes, an agent is responsible for accompanying the communes and putting them in contact with the departments of the State and the department as well as the potential financiers. Let's work together, let's think. Emmanuelle Anthoine and I made proposals in conclusion of the flash mission. Now we all need to get to grips with the subject. There was no better place than the Ministry of Culture to lead this discussion, and to move forward. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have been talking about this for a long time, and the findings have been made. Now we have to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u228	Mr Gérard, this amendment does indeed prolong the discussion we have just had with the minister. You are quite right, one of the explanations of the difficulties in consuming credits is related to the control of works. Until about ten years ago, DRACs were authorized to do so for work on historic monuments belonging not to the state but to private owners or communes, especially small ones. However, as a result of a reform adopted since then, DRACs can now only intervene in support, in assistance in the control of works, which makes operations more difficult. It seems to me that it is possible to finance studies of assistance in master's work under the incentive and partnership fund for historical monuments located in low-resource communes – but this has to be verified. The studies financed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations in the framework of the operations of the action programme heart de ville – I have visited some sites – can also take into account the assistance to master of works. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one point. You have the chance, with the DRACs, to benefit from deconcentrated services of high quality. The Ministry of Culture, which manages most of the appropriations for investment in heritage, is one of those where the allocation of appropriations is the most deconcentrated, the closest to the land. We will therefore have to study these issues closely, and perhaps launch a mission oriented towards Mr Gérard's proposals, in order to help in a more effective way the control of works. Gathering funding and scheduling work is not obvious for private owners who do not necessarily have a lot of resources or time, or small municipalities. Mr. Gérard is asking a real question. I wish the ministry could study it. I understand that this amendment is an appeal. Mr Gérard, while I fully agree with you on the substance, I do not believe that it is useful to create a specific fund on this subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u230	Thank you, Mr. Gérard; your commitment to these issues is well known and relevant. As you and the Special Rapporteur have just done, I would like to point out that the issue of assistance in the management of works is of paramount importance, not only for the consumption of funds, but also for the restoration of quality historical monuments. The State services can already assist owners of historic monuments in their restoration work; Many small municipalities use this mechanism. Assistance is often free of charge. This is the case where the owner does not have sufficient resources, or where the project is particularly complex. It can also be paid. Where owners, in particular small municipalities, wish to avail themselves of assistance for the control of public or private works, its cost may be included in the amount of the restoration work supported financially by the State; It is part of the budget for restoration. Therefore, the creation of a specific fund does not seem to me to be relevant. However, it would be useful if, in addition to State assistance, local and regional authorities were to develop an offer in this area. I would point out that it already exists, particularly for pre-work studies, in some departments, which have not waited for our requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u231	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u232	It must be widespread and local and regional authorities must take a proactive approach. I ask you, honourable Member, to withdraw the amendment. However, we will be able to reflect on this very fundamental issue of contract-control assistance, as you and the Special Rapporteur ask. On this subject too, let's work together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u233	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr Gérard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u234	I remove it; You realized he was on call. I am at your disposal, minister, to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u235	I wish to speak, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u236	I am sorry, Mr Rebeyrotte, but further discussion of withdrawn amendments would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and not respectful of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u237	We did not vote for the new regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u238	On Amendment No 2098, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2531.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u239	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to finance the creation of joint art and culture houses in the regions. The request comes from UFISC – the Federal Union for the Intervention of Cultural Structures. In its diversity, the cultural field needs structural tools in the regions, to define territorial strategies, to create spaces for decision-making, and to contribute to the "co-construction", as is now said, of cultural policies. Unlike the public or private operators we usually deal with, these structures concern the self-employed or all small enterprises; They can also come from associative citizen initiatives, which we find particularly interesting. These joint art and culture houses are designed to bring together all actors, in a cross-sectoral way. This transversality allows them to take into account all cultural ecosystems in order to structure them. Their work can, of course, be linked with existing processes and bodies, such as the CTC – Territorial Councils for Culture – and with elected officials. They are a place where all citizen initiatives can be organised, and where cultural practices around trades, small businesses and self-employed people can be organised. The process seems to us to be quite interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u241	Cultural structures will be supported as part of the recovery plan; third-party venues and art workshops, which bring together many actors, will benefit from a €30 million envelope in the theatre, dance and circus sectors. In the crisis we are going through, it is better to give priority to supporting the structures and actors that already exist – artists, authors, companies and theatres, whether labeled or not. Unfavorable notice, in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u243	Unfavorable opinion. Let us instead help the structures that already exist, given the very difficult situation of some of them, before imagining new ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u244	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2098.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u245	It aims to eliminate any risk of controversy – one remembers the one, unpleasant, which appeared a few months ago – regarding the use of donations under the national subscription for the restoration work of Notre-Dame. The law we passed on July 29, 2019 is explicit. It states that the national subscription funds exclusively the restoration and conservation work of the cathedral. Consequently, the operation of the public establishment responsible for the conservation work and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris cannot be financed by this subscription. Donor confidence cannot be betrayed if donors are to continue to give.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u246	That's right! There's a big malaise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u247	This amendment therefore takes up the main proposal made by the Court of Auditors in its report of 30 September on the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, to finance this public institution directly from budgetary appropriations. Madam Minister, as soon as you arrived in the government, you sought to extinguish – and you were right – this start of controversy, clearly indicating that the 213,000 euros rent of the premises of the public institution, located in the city Martignac, next to here, would be paid directly by the ministry. The ministry's doctrine has always been constant: all public cultural institutions receive a subsidy for public service expenses, at the time of their creation – except perhaps Chambord's, because it has sufficient own revenues. It must be demonstrated that the Department is funding the operation of this new public institution. If not, we will have problems with the use of funds, I am sure; The Court of Auditors has highlighted them. The purpose of this amendment is to protect you from it, Madam Minister. In addition, the public institution ensures the mastery of the works not only for the works on the cathedral, but also for its surroundings, which are not concerned by the subscription, dear Parisian colleagues. Finally, the Master of Works for the furniture and works of the cathedral is ensured by the DRAC of Île-de-France but not by the public establishment. For a whole range of legal, technical, but also and above all political and trustworthy reasons, I call for this amendment to be adopted. Madam Minister, I propose the amount of $6.7 million here, but I am quite open to your corrections if you think the amount should be lower. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is to do you a service, and to do us all a service, by allowing us to maintain the confidence of the donors, to clearly state that this institution, like all others like it, will receive a subsidy for public service charges. I would point out that the amendment has not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u249	I have, of course, read with interest the observations of the Court of Auditors to surprise myself that there are a number of recommendations that have already been honoured, whether they are the upgrading of movable property, analytical accounting, or thinking about the future of the public institution. Nor do I see the point of triggering an administrative investigation, while the ministry obviously requested a judicial investigation to find those who were responsible for the Notre-Dame disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u250	I did not address this aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u251	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] So I found the Court's observations somewhat staggered... but I won't be more unpleasant. On the other hand, I want to be perfectly clear on one point – and ask you to refer to Franck Riester's comments, which was just as clear when the public institution was created: the operations of control of works and the conduct of works are not detachable from the operation of an establishment whose statutory mission it is. These operations are essential to the successful completion of the work as well as to the timely implementation of the work, and donors have never been misled in this case, as the State's statements have been fully transparent. The good information of the public on the progress of the project, like that of the donors who must realize their promises, also requires that expenditure – a marginal part of the subscription, of the order of 5 million euros per year – be allocated to the communication. Again, as I have verified, all this has been made clear to Parliament by my predecessor. The State shall ensure, within the framework of its supervisory role, as it does for all operators, that the operating and personnel costs of the establishment are balanced. It was decided that the Ministry of Culture would pay the rent for the premises of the public establishment, which was in line with the commitments. Of course, the Ministry of Culture could take over the EUR 6.7 million, but at a time when many of you are concerned about the lack of funding for regional heritage and poor irrigation of the territories which would be disadvantaged compared to Paris, I think it is paradoxical to punctuate EUR 6.7 million to feed a building which is not in need and whose funding has been secured.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u252	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u253	As president of the information mission on Notre-Dame, I would first like to thank Gilles Carrez for this fundamental amendment, which tends to provide a necessary clarification. In this regard, Madam Minister, I am not reassured by your comments. This has nothing to do with the administrative investigation, but with the allocation of donations, on which we need full transparency, if donors are not to be discouraged. We have heard from, among other things, General Georgelin, and it is clear that the salaries and rent of a public institution do not have to be taken into account by the donors. On this question of rent, it seems to me that you have not been precise enough. In the name of what should the rent of a building that belongs to the occurrence in Matignon, if my information is good, be financed by donors? Either the State makes a cross on this rent, or the Ministry of Culture takes care of it. As for our requests for regional heritage, they have absolutely nothing to do with what we are discussing. You can't use that argument. Things have to be clearly said this morning: donor money does not have to finance rent or wages, of which to date we are still waiting for the grid to know precisely the remuneration of each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u254	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u255	First of all, and as I told you, the amount of EUR 6.7 million can probably be reduced if we limit funding to rent and wages, but we have not been able to obtain the institution's accounting data. Secondly, if we have set up, within the framework of the law, a commission to monitor the use of the subscription, in which the Chairman of the Finance Committee and the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs participate, it is precisely to check that the donations are used exclusively to finance the restoration work provided for by the law. We must be very careful to maintain the confidence of donors, especially since to date, only part of the pledges made by companies have been made – in the order of 100 to 200 million. If we want the rest of the promises to materialize, it is essential to be transparent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u256	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u257	[[Virginie Duby-Muller and Maxime Minot applaud]] The term is somewhat confused, but in this case it corresponds to a necessity, if we want, in the interests of all, to avoid a new controversy, after the controversy on rent, which you have managed to extinguish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u258	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u259	[["Oh!" on the benches of the LR group]] There are only polemics that we create...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u260	That's it, that's it, that's it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u261	I stress that, behind wages, there are skills, and I hardly see how to design a construction site without the skills that go with and are employed in the right place. And I confirm what the minister said: at the time, Franck Riester, had been extremely clear. While the risk is to lose the confidence of donors, this confidence will only be strengthened through the ability of people to manoeuvre to move the project forward; Without these powers, we will not be able to meet the deadlines. Let us take the example of the scaffolding and the processes that have had to be developed to dismantle it, which was the sine qua non condition for starting the construction of the building itself. This has required skills without which we would not be in the position we are in today. I therefore do not see how it is possible to distinguish between the different wages, and to include them in full in the budget of the public institution seems to me a good measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u262	It doesn't have anything to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u263	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2098.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u264	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 14 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u265	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2533.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u266	This amendment aims to increase by €5 million the increase in the National Fund for Permanent Employment in Performing Arts – FONPEPS – managed by the Ministry of Culture. This fund was originally to have a budget of EUR 90 million which has never been reached. With the crisis endangering many small structures and jobs, it seems necessary to increase support for artistic jobs, which are very fragile. In particular, the criteria for access to the FONPEPS should be changed and should be opened up, in particular, to those involved in visual art who find it difficult to benefit from it. More broadly, procedures and payment deadlines should be simplified to preserve the cash flow of associations or small structures. Finally, we recommend carrying out ex post checks. It is to clarify the rules of use and the objectives of this fund and to increase these means that we call for, in order to preserve cultural employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u268	I myself defended last year an amendment to increase the FONPEPS. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that this year the effort has been very substantial, from EUR 17 million to EUR 22 million. The scheme was also very simplified, and last year the entire envelope was consumed. There is indeed a delay in the processing of the files, and I hope that this will be resolved, but I think the envelope of 22 million is sufficient. We will see in the years to come whether to increase it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u270	The fight against job insecurity is obviously important, but the EUR 5 million increase we have made is already a substantial effort and corresponds to the needs we have identified. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u271	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u272	Of course, we recognize the effort that has been made, but I would also like to stress the need for training for these professions. It is important that these artists can continue to innovate, and there is a significant lack of resources in this regard – I am thinking in particular of theatre and regional scenes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u273	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2646, 2648, 2641 and 2642, which can be presented together. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u274	We propose a new distribution of cultural credits in order to support architecture and protected areas and, more particularly, the revitalization of old centres in small cities, i.e. cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, which are often below radars. Restoring the activity of the city centres requires strong actions on housing, in particular to reduce the vacancy and unsanitaryness, but also on the maintenance of shops and local services – post office, cinemas, etc. – on the supply of suitable facilities, the cultural and tourist offer – notably through cultural animation and the exploitation of built or landscaped heritage – on mobility, accessibility, economic development or digital services. To strengthen the presence of dynamic and lively city centres in rural areas and peripheral areas requires comprehensive and combined action on all the levers which can, on the one hand, improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the city centres but also of the living areas, and, on the other hand, reduce the desertification of these same cities and the surrounding rural territories. The aim is to contribute to the social cohesion of the territories, their development and their attractiveness by pursuing an ambitious policy. In order to raise funds, the "Departmental Support Functions" action needs to be streamlined, with respect to everything related to real estate in particular, and the department must engage in a process of cost reduction as well as operating expenditures. By redeploying these appropriations, we therefore do not enter the transmission of knowledge. On the contrary, these amendments protect our heritage and ensure that everyone has access to knowledge, by proposing a redeployment of the appropriations allocated to investment and operating expenditure. They take part in the accompaniment of the small communes, on which you insisted earlier. I would add that the heritage mission that you mentioned earlier, Minister, can only serve our small communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u275	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u276	The Finance Committee has not considered these amendments. Personally, I do not think this redeployment is useful. On the other hand, you are dealing with an important subject: in programme 175, it is absolutely necessary to pay more attention to the questions concerning architecture – Mr Raphaël Gérard said earlier –, the protected areas and the treatment of public spaces. In order to highlight a historical monument, one must take an interest in its environment; This problem mainly concerns small towns. I had the opportunity to visit several of the 222 operations of the city centre action programme, notably those of Gien and Romorantin, which are also remarkable heritage sites. The presentation of the heritage is doubly interesting: from the point of view of preserving the heritage, of course, but also because the attractiveness of the monuments contributes to the revitalization of the city centres. In recent years, particularly in connection with my participation in the supervision committee of the Caisse des dépôts, I have made contact on several occasions with the managers of the action programme centre de ville in order to draw their attention to the heritage dimension of several sites: more than half of the 222 operations correspond in fact to remarkable heritage sites. Moreover, in the context of studies financed by the Caisse des dépôts concerning the complex expertise and coordination of these operations, the heritage dimension is well taken into account. I fully agree with you, Mrs Mette, that this dimension must be a priority for the regional directorates of cultural action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u277	I conclude that this is an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u278	Yeah, I said it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u280	I agree with the rapporteur that the animation of city centres has a heritage dimension and an economic dimension. The Ministry of Culture is fully committed to the revitalization of the historic centres undergoing desertification. Together with local and regional authorities, which are also very active in this field, we are pursuing a policy of protecting and developing 900 remarkable heritage sites. This is one of the levers for the State to contribute to the revitalization of old centres. Under the core city action programme, 90% of the 222 cities selected are covered by a protected area under the Heritage Code. The Ministry of Culture is therefore very involved in its application. We also participate in the small town plan of tomorrow; Under the third amending finance law for 2020, the conditions for the award of the Heritage Foundation's label have been relaxed, in particular to include buildings located in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and not protected as historical monuments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u281	More generally, the financial effort for heritage and architecture in the PLF for 2021 is intended to support the development of the territories. I ask you to withdraw the amendments: I agree with their philosophy, but I consider them satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u282	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u283	The question is no longer that of redeployment within the mission, we now have all the tools; The minister has just recalled them and we have already listed them several times. In the city centre action programme, 120 cities already have a RPD – a remarkable heritage site; In thirty-three others, a RPD is being created. I welcome the small town plan of tomorrow, because in Yves Dauge's excellent report, which is at the origin of the reflection on the revitalisation of the town centres, the latter recommended to concentrate on the cities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Thanks to his work, public action is being corrected. He must now be given the necessary time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is very important that the Ministry of Culture finds its right place in the action programmes of the heart of the city and small cities of tomorrow, in order to bring to each project a specificity, animation and economic dynamism. That is why we must all be behind the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u284	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u285	I withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u286	What a waste of time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u287	I think, however, that with better communication to rural areas, the municipalities would use these measures more to develop their deprived city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u288	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2064.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u289	The amendment is the same as I defended last year, at first and second reading of the finance bill. It concerns music societies in all their diversity, including band drums, orchestras of harmony, Breton bagads and other musical structures of this type. On 17 December 2019, the Assembly decided to set up a support fund for them, which your predecessor, Madam Minister, had committed to provide for €3 million. We took up one of the proposals of the rural agenda, in which our colleague Daniel Labaronne participated, and of which Édouard Philippe announced the application on September 25, 2019. When the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs came to my constituency on 24 September 2020, he had the chance to enjoy a magnificent concert specially organized for his arrival and to realize the usefulness of these structures. With more than 500,000 musicians, the music societies are popular in the noble sense of the term, and present absolutely everywhere. The subject is not only the Member of the North who I am, since there are also orchestras of harmony in Aix-en-Provence or Narbonne. Nor are the latter specific to rural areas: those of Seine-Saint-Denis do an absolutely remarkable job, complementary to that of conservatories. These structures are also intergenerational. The assembly of amateur musicians that welcomed Joël Giraud included among its members Jean-Marie Leblanc, former director of the Tour de France, who still plays the clarinet, as well as a young man about ten years old. Do you know any other structures that can bring together such varied age groups every week? Their existence is the pride of the territories. They maintain the social bond and bring life; In many cases, the territorial cultural offer is based on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u290	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u291	Finally, although some have existed for some more than 150 years, they have nothing obsolete and are not content to rework old compositions; They also showcase the music of the seventh art, that of Hans Zimmer, John Williams or Ennio Morricone, which unfortunately left us last summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u292	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u293	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In short, they play an absolutely essential role and need our support; That's why I'm talking to you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u294	On Amendment No 2573, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. On the credits of the mission "Culture", I am also seized by the group La République en Marche of a request for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u295	In substance, I share your concern to support culture in the territories and to be attentive to territorial balances. I also know that a commitment was made last year by the Minister of Culture. But in the meantime, the crisis, which strongly affects culture, has gone through it. The priority is probably not to support structures that, due to containment, have consumed their credits very little in 2020. Personally, request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u297	Mrs Cattelot, we know your repeated commitment to the band. I would remind you that € 200000 is already spent annually on their support. In recent months, this money is far from being consumed; We understand why. In addition, my predecessor's commitment had been made in other circumstances. Clearly, in the face of the disaster in the cultural sector, especially those professionals for whom a commitment to a life makes it possible to pay rent and food, it does not seem to me that support for fanfares can be a priority objective. However, I share the concern of parliamentarians about amateur practice. We want to support the animation of the territories, so I have created a cross-sectional delegation to the ministry dedicated to territories, transmission and cultural practices. There is a need for a balanced approach in this area. For several weeks, we have been working with the Minister of Territorial Cohesion to develop a support plan. It will lead to the strengthening of amateur practice, with 1 million over two years; the doubling of the envelope dedicated to fanfares in the framework of the fund to encourage artistic and cultural initiatives of amateurs, to reach 80000 euros; consolidated support to the federations, with EUR 340000 over two years; aid for rural banding, managed by the DRAC, to the tune of 500,000 euros over two years. Thanks to all these arrangements, the musical structures will be able to receive financial support from the State as of next year. In total, the Government's assistance to the band will amount to €2 million over two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u298	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u299	I support Mrs Cattelot's amendment, which aims to remind not only of the commitment of the Minister of Culture, but also of the vote in the House in December. That this vote has not had an effect contravenes the most elementary rules of parliamentary life. What are the structures involved? It's not just about band bands, band batteries and harmonies, but also about band bands – I'm sensitive to it, you'll understand it. These structures are deeply rooted, not only in the rural world, but also in small, medium and large cities. They combine different generations, which is very rare and very well. [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group. – Many members of the group designate their mask]] Ladies and gentlemen, I see a few mocking smiles on the benches of La République en marche; It doesn't surprise me, knowing your logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u300	Stop assaulting us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u301	Don't play fat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, please! It is true that, through masks, smiles are difficult to see, but I call for the serenity of our debates. Go on, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u303	I also invite each other to regain the utmost serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u304	Why don't you get some chamomile?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u305	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these musical ensembles, you will meet them on 11 November in front of the monuments to the dead where, as in previous years and as in the next few years, they will be mobilized to animate patriotic ceremonies. We have the opportunity today, not to give them a gift, but to confirm the vote already taken in their favour. That is what the amendment proposes, to which I fully subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u306	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u307	I am delighted, Madam Minister, that you are making a formal commitment to put EUR 2 million on the table, as you have just announced before the national representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u308	If the amendment is withdrawn, we shall take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u309	I would point out that Joël Giraud has been very active in this matter. As I have shown by quoting the examples of Narbonne, Aix or Seine-Saint-Denis, these musical societies are not only a rural fact but also an urban fact, and everywhere they promote social ties. They are not particularly fragile, but they are popular structures, composed of amateur musicians with few means and who often pay for their instruments themselves. So I really hope that these EUR 2 million, in addition to supporting the federations, will make it possible to finance direct public action, which you will be able to take advantage of, so that all these amateurs know that it is thanks to you that they will have been able to renew their instruments, their desks and their partitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u310	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u311	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is no question of scorning these structures. I myself greeted their action, in front of the monuments to the dead or for the animation of the holidays... I only hope that if these credits are used to buy instruments, they are French instruments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u312	I understand that the amendment has been withdrawn. As it was immediately taken up, I put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u313	I call Mrs Mette to support Amendment No. 2649.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u314	It proposes a new distribution of cultural credits in order to better support linguistic heritage. Regional languages are an integral part of our culture, history and heritage, as stated in section 75-1 of the Constitution. They contribute to the vitality of our territories by participating in the valorization of our traditions and promote the transmission of a memory and a culture. But they're in danger. According to UNESCO, both schools and all cultural policies should be relays of their dissemination. It is therefore necessary to encourage the practice of regional languages and to increase, for this purpose, the appropriations for the action "French language and languages of France".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u316	By 2021, language pacts will be proposed to local authorities along the lines of the one signed with the Hauts-de-France region, in order to enhance the regional languages spoken in the territories concerned and to carry out awareness-raising activities with the public. With a view to the general states of multilingualism in the overseas regions, to be held in 2021, a proposal will be made to the local authorities of La Réunion. An innovative digital portal will also be opened, the Language Observatory, a single point of access to the information and data available, in particular on the languages of France and the other languages spoken in our territory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u318	I am personally very committed to the promotion of the regional languages and the languages of France. I wanted to write the dialogues of my last book in Breton, to tell you if the attachment to my original language is powerful. The Special Rapporteur recalled the various actions envisaged: language pacts, general states of multilingualism, and the forthcoming opening of a digital portal. I hope that the difficulties associated with the health situation will be alleviated at the time when these general states will be held, when I wish to go personally to mark my attachment to both the overseas and the incomparable heritage of the regional languages and the languages of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u319	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u320	I will vote for our colleague's amendment and thank her for having tabled it. I am a little surprised by the response of the Special Rapporteur. These are not only the overseas regions but also many of the metropolitan areas that are attached to their very different languages. We often talk about Alsacian and Breton, but there is also Flemish, Occitan, Corsican, Basque – the list is long. These are our riches, and you have said it perfectly, Madam Minister, but I appeal to Corentine, if I may say so, to the Gurinoise who sleeps in you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u321	[[Smile]] She doesn't sleep, she's very awake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u322	...because if I agree with your comments, I note that you do not agree with the specific demands attached to the amendment, which I regret. We had the opportunity to express support for what constitutes a part of our culture, which is clearly identified in our Constitution, in Article 75-1. This is one of the positive aspects of President Sarkozy's 2008 reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u323	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2573.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u324	[[Michel Larive, Maud Petit and Maina Sage applaud]] It provides for a budget for the opening and enrichment of training courses in Creole languages, civilizations and cultures. More than 10 million people practice Creole commonly. Although Creole option classes have been open for several decades in overseas countries, the enrolment rate is declining every year. We believe that this is not due to the lack of interest of the ultramarines in their own culture but to the existing discrimination. Indeed, many feel that the study of this language has no value within the professional or even academic community. However, the creation of CAPES in 2002 and Creole aggregation in 2019 proves the opposite. I greet in passing the success of Réunionnais Francky Lauret, which became at the beginning of July the first aggregate in languages of France, Creole option.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u326	As you recalled, Creole education is offered in most schools in the Overseas Territories. The opening in 2019 of a creole aggregation should strengthen Creole's place at university. In addition, the organization in La Réunion, in October 2021, of the general states of multilingualism in the overseas countries and territories will aim to put in place a language policy conducive to balanced multilingualism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u328	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u329	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u330	As a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, as Martinique and Vice-President of the Overseas Delegation, I would like to point out that the promotion of regional languages is also the enhancement of general culture and that it helps to combat discrimination. Last year, I presented a report on discrimination in overseas countries, with Cécile Rilhac and Josette Manin; One of its recommendations, the third, is the strengthening of the teaching of the languages of France, of course with respect for the values of the Republic. Even if I regret that the chosen line is not the right one and that it is also only Creole, in my personal capacity and for the symbol, I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u331	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u332	I have other arguments to convince you: the difficult access to Creole works and basic documents such as dictionaries or grammar complicates the study of these languages and cultures; As Évelyne Adelin and Mylène Lebon-Eyquem, researchers in Creole, have shown, nothing contributes to the development of a language policy specific to overseas countries and territories; and no real promotion of the Creole language has been made, nor has there been any encouragement for the educational system on the ground. This amendment would make it possible to take a first step towards a better consideration of Creole among the languages taught in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u333	I put to the vote Amendment No 2573.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u334	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 33 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u335	I put to the vote the credits of the "Culture" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u336	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 76 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u337	I now call the amendments to the Additional Article after Article 54, attached to the Culture mission. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2571.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u338	Overseas territories are subject to climatic conditions that differ from those of Hexagon. The preservation of the physical cultural heritage present in these territories has become a subject of reflection as their maintenance and renovation are complex. I'm thinking of La Réunion, the lazarets or Juliette-Dodu prison. In order to preserve and preserve these cultural riches, some overseas territories must employ external, sometimes international specialists – from Africa, India, China... But drawing on external expertise has a significant cost and makes it difficult to renovate works and buildings, despite the ingenuity shown by some departments, as evidenced by the establishment of networks of professionals of the built in Réunion through the Indian Ocean Heritage Interviews or the removal of air conditioners in some museums, breaking the standards applied in Hexagon. The particularities associated with the ultra-peripheral character of these territories require special, more costly devices. That is why we are asking for a report in order to determine the real cost of practices adapted to the environment and the specificities of each of these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u340	In general, I am not in favour of reports. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion, in my personal capacity, because the amendment has not been discussed by the committee. But as Special Rapporteur, I am very careful to see that the overseas countries and territories take their full part in programme 175, because they deserve it. In La Réunion, there are 26 classified buildings and 168 registered buildings. In all areas, whether it is the protection of the heritage or archaeological excavations of the National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research, INRAP, considerable funds are used overseas, and that is a very good thing. In Guadeloupe, under the previous legislature, the ACTe Memorial, a remarkable museum, was financed by the State to the tune of tens of millions of euros. We will therefore all ensure that the overseas region, whose monumental and historical heritage is very important, is given full credit for the protection and enhancement of the heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u342	Of course, there is no question of denying the importance of the overseas heritage, the conservation and restoration of which are indeed very specific problems. The use of external specialists is sometimes necessary and results from the constant search for a perfect match between the work required, the conservation procedures and the professional capacity of the undertakings concerned. Above all, it is important that the storage is carried out in the best possible conditions. I do not see the usefulness of a report on the subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u343	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u344	The rapporteur, Madam Minister, in order to exercise our full vigilance over the maintenance of the overseas cultural heritage, a report is indispensable. The current situation is unsatisfactory and the conservation of our monuments deserves further study. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u345	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u346	I would like to thank our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon for his previous amendment: for me, who comes from French Polynesia, bilingualism is also obvious. I believe, like our colleague, that its promotion is necessary, in particular in order to promote social cohesion. On the other hand, I will not support Amendment No 2571, even if I understand the idea. Let me share with you the experience of Polynesia, Mr.Ratenon, where very beautiful partnerships have been developed. About ten years ago, we restored one of the most beautiful churches in Polynesia, the first built in our territory. We worked on this renovation project with the Compagnons de France for several years. This type of partnership is a source of mutual enrichment. The summary statement of your amendment is a little burdensome, but on the contrary, it is necessary to develop this type of approach. Finally, let me draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to a report issued three years ago by the National Commission for the Evaluation of Overseas State Policies – CNEPEOM – which has unfortunately been abolished by the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law. As part of the preparation of this report, I directed the theme "Access to Culture Overseas" with the objective of promoting cultural places. Important work must be done to protect the heritage. Minister, you have my support in this endeavour. However, this amendment could prove counterproductive and undermine the development of partnerships to improve the protection of the overseas heritage. I shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u347	I put to the vote Amendment No 2571.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u348	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 81 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 21 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u349	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1771.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u350	The essential issue of emancipation and democratisation of access to culture deserves a report! By way of comparison, I would like to remind you that before you get any cents of euro – my colleagues are witnesses! – the National Music Centre was the subject of three missions and two comprehensive reports: a pre-figuration report by Mr. Roch-Olivier Maistre, at the request of the then Minister of Culture, whose conclusions were delivered in 2018; A mission then entrusted to MPs Émilie Cariou and Pascal Bois, at the request of the Prime Minister – no less! – in order to give financial expression to the existence of this body: finally, a mission entrusted to Catherine Rugieri to determine the architecture of the aid schemes. All this to start getting money! The culture pass has received 78 million euros since 2018, without ever having been the subject of any report or mission! In order to ensure that the funds committed are relevant to the objectives, we consider a report to be indispensable. We have noted your proposals for improving and optimizing the system, Minister, and we hope that they will be taken into account because they are in the right direction. However, a comprehensive report on the culture pass is still necessary in order to verify its effectiveness and, if demonstrated, to commit ourselves to its deployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u351	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u352	This amendment has not been considered by the committee, so I can only give you my personal opinion. We have already explained why the experiment could not be carried out entirely and why it is necessary to generalize the device to ensure full power. We do not have enough hindrance today for a report to be drawn up. I invite you to make this proposal again in two years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u353	Two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u354	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u355	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u356	I have already expressed myself on the past culture, which has mobilized us very much, rightly. I repeat, I am at the disposal of Members to provide them with all the necessary information. Allow me, on the other hand, to respond to Mrs Le Grip's inquiry earlier on a completely different subject: the return to Madagascar of the crown adorning the dais of Malagasy queen Ranavalona III. The de facto accusation of the prince seems to me quite strange! The file has been under review for several years. If you remember that, I referred it to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education by drawing up a list of the requests we have received. Nothing's been hidden! This is a simple deposit agreement and not a refund. Given the derogation procedure, on a case-by-case basis, which we intend to apply, there will be restitution only on condition that a law is passed by Parliament. Madagascar requested that this highly symbolic heritage object be returned to Madagascar as part of national celebrations. But, ladies and gentlemen, no contempt, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u357	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u358	I didn't say anything about the Malagasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u359	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Madagascar attributes high symbolic value to the crown adorning the dais of Malagasy queen Ranavalona III and asked to dispose of the object as part of a national holiday. It is therefore a loan and not a fact of the prince. In order for restitution to be validated, it will have to be submitted to Parliament as part of a bill. Let's go back to reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u360	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u361	Members of the Republican Group will support the amendment by our colleague Frédérique Dumas. It is good for national representation to be informed in detail of the operation of a system with the relevant guidelines, figures and breakdowns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u362	It's called transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u363	We need a real assessment of the culture pass, which the minister herself pointed out was currently under-consumpted and which, however, is full of additional appropriations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, I have heard your reply to my inquiry and I, in turn, want to answer you, because you have used a word – "scorn" – which will be noted in the record of the sitting and which I cannot endorse: I have at no time spoken unpleasant or contemptuous words against the Malagasy people! I just wanted to warn you about the contrasting feelings that we felt after hearing from the press that a plane was carrying the crown adorning the daisy of Malagasy queen Ranavalona III in Madagascar, even though the Assembly debated, a few months ago, the legislative framework necessary for restitution operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u364	There's no restitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u365	We have to name things!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u366	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u367	Madam Special Rapporteur, you are telling us that you cannot reply to this amendment because it has not been discussed by the committee, but we have been presenting it for three years! I hope you've already had an opportunity to examine it. The subject is, moreover, not well complicated... You explain that the experiment does not work and that the pass culture must be generalized in order to be evaluated. That's an interesting argument to say the least! What, then, is an experiment for under these conditions? You conclude, with magnanimity, that we will get the report we are asking for in two years! Do you know that all the ministers of culture of the legislature have given us this same answer? It's always too early to wait until next year! For you, it is squarely in two years and after the generalization of the pass culture, that is the confession of the failure of the experiment... We only ask you for a report, a report that is necessary. I repeat, before reaching any euro, the National Music Centre was the subject of two reports and three missions. The issue is important and warrants that you respond favourably to our request. Or you don't want to give us the information we ask...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1063.u368	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: New reading of the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law; Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Review of the appropriations of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", the special account "Advances to public audiovisual" and the mission "Cohésion des territoires". The meeting is adjourned.
