ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to protect victims of domestic violence (No. 2478, 2587).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u3	The Libertés et Territoires Group believes that it is beneficial for society as a whole to take up this crucial issue of domestic violence. Let us not be afraid of words: it is a scourge! Such violence destroys lives, personalities; They are, in many cases, the source of behavioural disorders for children who experience them directly or indirectly, which may reappear in adulthood. In recent months, associations have carried out an offensive campaign, often brilliantly, to denounce this phenomenon of society. We must thank and support them; They make democracy live by denouncing injustices, unspeakable horrors. We could not remain deaf to their call; We could not turn our eyes away from a tragic reality, that of the 150 femicides in the past year. As we end the period of vows, this moment when we wish happiness, peace and health, it is already eight women who have fallen, victims of the blows of their husband, spouse or boyfriend. A first step in responding to this intolerable situation has been the bill of our colleague Aurélien Pradié, which we recently adopted. This new bill marks a second step and brings some improvements to the law of 28 December 2019. These measures could have been integrated as early as December in order to act more quickly. But we believe that we must get out of any partisan debate, and that is why, from this text, we will only take on the positive aspects, because the subject is obviously crucial. Many measures seem welcome, such as the extension of the law of 28 December last year to attempted homicides, whose seriousness may be comparable to the commission of the crime itself, or the provisions on arms and respect for privacy. Secondly, support must be given to Articles 10 and 11. Article 10 makes it possible to strengthen the fight against harassment within the couple by broadening the notion of invasion of privacy and punishing it more severely when it takes place within the couple. Article 11 provides a means to act ahead of future violence by strengthening the protection of minors from exposure to pornography. Violence develops through the socialization of individuals; And the easy access, for very young individuals, who are on average 13 years old in France, to pornographic content, which broadcast a brutal vision of sexuality, certainly makes it one of the vectors of domestic violence. This access must therefore be better regulated. However, we must aim at the roots of evil, which means that we must put in place a genuine mechanism of education to respect each other, to combat domestic violence, from an early age, going beyond the mere protection of access to pornography. Nevertheless, some articles call for a few remarks or raise some difficulties. With regard to article 6 on the exemption from maintenance in the event of domestic violence, we question the place of the judge. We support this possibility of exemption; But we believe that the judge must have the possibility, beyond the crime that would lead to an automatic exemption, to grant it in other circumstances. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. On the other hand, with regard to moral harassment within the couple, the worsening of the sentence in cases of harassment leading to suicide is a fair measure, but we do not think that it should be extended to suicide attempts. Of course, any change to the act is an appeal that must be taken into account, but what you are proposing in Article 7 seems disproportionate to us. The suicidal crisis is multifactorial. That is why it is more appropriate to reserve the aggravation of the sentence to the irreparable occurrence of death. On these issues, we are therefore on the same line as other colleagues on other benches. Secondly, Article 8 may, in our view, constitute an infringement of a fundamental right for patients, medical secrecy, a fortiori for victims of domestic violence who know how to find refuge in the doctor. Without the consent of the patient, do you not fear a loss of confidence between the patient and the doctor that would result in the opposite effect of the one we are all looking for? That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete this article, which seems to us to be particularly dangerous for victims of domestic violence themselves. Let us instead provide the means to help the doctors convince the victims to report their execution. Similarly, we need to strengthen the detection of situations of domestic violence. When we examined our colleague Aurélien Pradié's bill, we tabled amendments to give a statute to the general public. We have not been heard on this point and we regret it, but there is a real subject of reflection: the handrail has an important role to play in detecting domestic violence. As with doctors, the training of police officers and gendarmes is adapted. Now I would like to address the important issues raised by article 12, on legal aid. If, again, the intentions are quite laudable, the granting of interim legal aid which may not subsequently be validated – which would entail the obligation to return the fees paid – will inevitably create, we believe, insecurity for the victim of violence. The insecurity and anxiety of an already vulnerable and distressed person are aggravated. To solve this problem, we had a proposal to rewrite you, but the amendment did not resist, once again, the caudine forks of Article 40. This amendment was, in our view, the balance solution: it proposed that the legal aid offices should decide within 48 hours, but finally, on the granting of the aid. Would the Government be prepared to consider introducing such a measure into the text? Before concluding, I would like to dwell on one point, which has already been mentioned, perhaps the most essential. We can legislate as many times as we want, but if we don't give ourselves the means to enforce what we vote, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u5	For the protection of victims of domestic violence to be effective, it is essential to allocate more resources to this fight: the justice, health, safety and education sectors must have the financial, material and human resources to implement the provisions that we include in the law. Unfortunately, successive financial laws have shown us that the means are not up to our objectives. We need to get out of legislation of good intentions and really empower ourselves. This is a public health and safety issue. Feminist associations estimate that it takes EUR 1 billion to effectively combat domestic violence. My colleague Paul Molac pointed out in committee the lack of emergency accommodation for women who wish to leave the family home. This is a complex situation, but if leaving the family home is necessary to escape the stalker, we must allow them access to a safe place when they make this courageous decision. Similarly, the congestion of the courts is a hindrance to the proper functioning of the process of protection and reconstruction of victims. [[Applause on the benches of the LT.–M group. Aurélien Pradie also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the shortcomings I have just mentioned, our group is in favour of this bill improving the mechanism we have recently voted on. However, we will be vigilant in the forthcoming discussions on the points I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u6	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u7	The youngest was 19 years old, the oldest was 85 years old. What do they have in common? They were murdered by a husband, a companion – almost in silence. They were not just anyone: they were someone's daughters, sisters, nieces, friends and mothers, ours. Domestic violence is multifaceted. It can take the form of isolated acts, which do not happen again, or repeated, usual acts. Often reduced to physical violence, assault and injury, it actually takes many forms. Psychological domestic violence is a very real form of violence: humiliation, harassment, threats, insults are often the beginning of the most serious acts. This domestic violence is also often a sexual violence: yes, rape within the couple exists and it is also a crime. Economic violence is no less common than others: often there is permanent control, distilled on a day-to-day basis, spending, or deprivation of income. Domestic violence is often taboo. Yet the figures are there, edifying and stubborn, to remind us of their magnitude. Each year, between 100 and 200 people die as a result of domestic violence. Each year, between 1000 and 1200 marital rapes are reported. Every year, there are an average of 60000 reported assaults, of which 50000 are committed by men against women. In 2019, more than 120 women were killed. Each year, to make it clear, a woman dies every two or three days on average of domestic violence. No, violence is not the prerogative of men. This is often a hidden reality, sometimes denied, but men too are victims – less than women, but the subject is far from being anecdotal. In France, for example, 82,000 men are subjected to beatings, ill-treatment and sexual abuse every year. Because these so-called "ordinary" violence, which causes tens of thousands of victims each year, are real domestic dramas; because these violences are killing families, ruining and taking away lives; because not doing anything would always be acceptable and because indifference is also violence, we have chosen to make the fight against domestic violence and the repression of domestic violence a priority commitment. A result of the work carried out for months by several thousand people mobilized, gathered throughout France in the eleven working groups and the local Grenelle, our bill makes choices. First of all, it erases certain legal implausibility. Because the relationship between the victim and the author is initially biased, the systematization of criminal mediation will be abolished in the case of domestic violence and family mediation will be strictly regulated. Secondly, we make the choice of protecting direct and incidental victims, especially children. The proposed law gives the judge the right to suspend or adjust the exercise of parental authority and its attributes. Thus, the violent parent may be deprived of access and accommodation while continuing to pay maintenance. Finally, we want to strengthen the criminal response. Although moral harassment is now punishable under the Penal Code, the proposal increases the penalties for intramarital harassment. The Act also recognizes the practice of "forced suicide", with the introduction of a new aggravating circumstance for perpetrators of violence in the event of harassment leading to suicide or attempted suicide of the victim. As we all know, violent stories almost always obey the same pattern of manipulations that begin with verbal devalorizations, and that gradually and profoundly undermine self-confidence. It is a real sap work that is organized; And when the blows happen, the victim almost finds it "normal." How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we heard during our hearings: "I found him an apology"; "I thought he had been mistreated"; "I couldn't give him up, he was the father of my children"! It is indeed a psychological grip with powerful springs, which makes any departure extremely difficult, any denunciation almost impossible and any complaint unthinkable. Therefore, our proposal by including the rule in the codes recognizes violence in any form, physical or psychological, that it occurs. And, ladies and gentlemen, because all too often victims go through without saying, our text broadens the scope of the lifting of medical secrecy. Because we need to avoid further tragedies, doctors must be able to report to the competent authorities more easily serious violence and immediate danger. The aim is not only to make a report, but also to provide victims with all the means necessary to accompany them. In fact, each time, the practitioner will have to strive to obtain the consent of the victim. If he fails to do so, he will have to inform him of the notification in advance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The aim of this text is to lift the ambivalence in which victims of domestic violence are too often plunged, between victimization and guilt. To help them erase the grip that suggests that they have sought the violence that has been inflicted on them, I invite you to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u8	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u9	The bill is presented to us as the legislative outcome of the Grenelle against domestic violence. If it is true that one must judge a tree with its fruits, then one will quickly convince oneself of the limits of a well-laid Grenelle, which ultimately served only to gine announcements and river declarations, without ever questioning the primacy of fiscal austerity that structures the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u10	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u11	To pass from words to deeds, it would have been necessary to get out of the golden rule; But you locked yourself in that dogma. Worse, you tried to trade the numbers to try to make it look like there were millions where there were none.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u12	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u13	First of all, I would like to convey to you the disappointment of the associations, the collectives of all citizens engaged in schools, schools, colleges and high schools, higher education institutions, administrations and businesses, and in the streets, so that the law can play its protective role in the face of violence that is known to be primarily systemic. Such a challenge could not be met without a framework law, which would be backed up by a substantial budget: one billion euros, that is what the associations demand in choirs and that the protestors of "We all" chanted last November at a demonstration of unprecedented magnitude on the subject. One billion, I say, seems to us to be a minimum, especially if we compare this amount to the 4.5 billion euros that the state has taken away every year by replacing the solidarity tax on capital with the property tax, or the billions spent on the flat tax or the CICE – the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – transformed into a relief of expenses. Political voluntarism requires resources, and the Government has demonstrated through its measures in favour of the richest that it can sometimes loosen the budget belt. But for the great cause of the quinquennium that is supposed to be the fight against violence against women, we will go back. Your budget, Mrs. Schiappa, is of overwhelming stability. Your communication does not change anything: it hides misery but does not change reality. The ambition of this bill is therefore frustrated by the lack of a budget envelope. In the absence of means, the text cannot live up to the needs to accompany the movement for the liberation of speech. Worse still, when I visited the association SOLFA – solidarity women reception – in Lille, which welcomes women victims, its officials explained to me that the information campaign on the number 3919, launched on 3 September 2019, had resulted in an increase in the number of local calls, to which they do not have the means to respond. It is a heartbreak for all those who work in this association to think of these missed calls, those women who will not call back afterwards. You can make a sign of denial, Madam Secretary of State, but, no doubt, they will tell you the same thing as I do when you return, and you will give them the means to answer all the calls. Some measures are welcome: the ban on criminal mediation, demanded by feminist movements for a very long time, is a real good news; the tightening of certain penalties for aggravating acts is also justified, we welcome it; As for the referral of weapons to a violent man, whether they are hunting weapons or service weapons for law enforcement officers, it is obviously in the right direction. But these small advances must be judged on the basis of what a framework law, accompanied by a budget, could have brought. In the fight against violence against women, the whole prevention component should be used as a lever. The mechanisms that fuel domestic violence and move the aggressor's arm are rooted in the education of children, in stereotypes that shape social behaviour from an early age. This bill contains only adjustments, although we could have sought to stem the violence even before it occurred. An ambitious law would have focused on the training of police officers, gendarmes, magistrates and health personnel. With regard to police officers and gendarmes, having reduced the duration of their training from 12 to 9 months by increasing their workload – in this area, you are dependent on the previous Government's decisions but you have not changed them – is not the best way to prepare for these issues. An ambitious law would have envisaged the hiring of forensic doctors, not in all departments, so that a woman who had been raped in Evreux would no longer be obliged to go to Caen to make known the abuse she had suffered. A truly ambitious law would have been committed to strengthening the resources of associations specializing in the support of women victims of violence, which are now being undermined by the end of the aided contracts and the reduction of subsidies, the concrete consequences of the economic choices made by your government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u14	There is no decrease in subsidies for women's rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u15	You'll answer me later, Madam Secretary of State. An ambitious law would have provided the means for the investigation and support of perpetrators of violence to prevent recidivism. This is an area in which further efforts should be made. The prevention of recidivism is often forgotten in the reforms on the subject. The bill contains only repressive adjustment measures. That's where the bastard hurts. That is the major criticism we are making. We add one on article 8, which removes medical secrecy without the consent of the victims in order to allow doctors to make reports to the public prosecutor. This legislative amendment is not a good idea. Trust must form the patient's relationship with her doctor. It is the only guarantee of sincere and respectful follow-up. How many women who are victims of violence will eventually give up care for fear of possible consequences and reprisals? The seal of professional secrecy is not by chance there: it is and must remain the basis for the protection of victims. Furthermore, article 226-14 of the Criminal Code already provides for the possibility of lifting medical secrecy without the consent of the person when the person is unable to protect himself or herself because of his or her age or physical or mental disability. This provision seems to us to be quite sufficient. We refuse that out of taste for the publicity effects, you come to further weaken the victims by extending the scope of the lifting of secrecy. Protecting will never mean infantilizing. This suggests that the low number of complaints and reports is the main issue in the fight against sexual violence, which is false and contradicted by the record of the last two years, during which it exploded. Rather, their treatment should be considered. Let's straighten it out here, 80 per cent of complaints of domestic violence are closed. Rather than force the words of the victims, let us make sure that we hear those who cry out for their distress. In 1968, women chanted: "Don't let me go, I'll take care of it." We must never lose sight of the extent of gender-based and sexual violence as the only political path we must take is emancipation. Victims of violence must be in charge of the proceedings initiated on their behalf in order to be the actors of their own release. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie applauds]] This bill, despite some progress, therefore suffers from serious shortcomings. The absence of a budget condemns it to constantly turning around the subject without attacking it in front of it. It is always a matter of moving forward slowly, while the subject demands the greatest urgency from us. We will vote on this bill, but with the anger and bitterness of lost time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u16	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u17	The bill is part of a global movement to raise awareness of the dramatic situation of hundreds of thousands of women and children who are victims of domestic violence every year. The numbers have been recalled, and they are overwhelming. There are more than 220,000 victims of violence every year, to varying degrees. While women are the primary targets, children are also subjected to such violence, either directly or indirectly. 170,000 children witness these traumatic scenes. The studies highlight the adverse effects of exposure to violence on children's emotional and social development, health, safety and behaviour. More than half of the children who are covictims of violence in the couple experience anxiety-depressive and post-traumatic disorders. These data must be fully taken into account in order to ensure the effective protection of women and children who are victims of violence. This bill, announced at the conclusion of the Grenelle against domestic violence, is in line with the bills examined by our assembly, at the initiative of the Republicans Group, and the unanimous adoption of the law to act against the violence within the family of which Aurélien Pradié was the author. First of all, we must welcome the republican consensus that has been reached on this societal scourge. Consensus is essential in order to overcome it. As we have pointed out, the number of femicides is increasing and the massive phenomenon of domestic violence continues to grow. It's scary and totally unacceptable. The urgency and seriousness of the situation oblige us all to act without delay, in concrete terms. While the legislative arsenal to combat domestic violence has been considerably strengthened over the past 15 years, the effectiveness of the mechanisms should be questioned. The bill before us for approval contains various provisions that amend both the Civil Code, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. We support both the objective pursued and most of the provisions of the text, many of which are the result of a relentless and determined mobilization of many associative organizations. I am thinking, in particular, of the extension of the ban on family mediation in cases of domestic violence, the seizure of weapons in cases of domestic violence. I am also thinking of strengthening the fight against harassment within the couple, in particular through the prohibition of geolocation of a person without his or her express consent. With regard to the provisions relating to mediation in cases of domestic violence, we welcome the fact that the law of 28 December 2019 has incorporated our proposal to exclude the possibility for the family court judge to propose to parents in disagreement on the modalities of exercising parental authority a mediation measure when violence is alleged by one of the parents on the other parent or on the child. This bill follows the same logic. It excludes any mediation, in divorce cases and proceedings relating to parental authority, in the event of a spouse's influence over the other or in the event of violence within the family. It also prohibits the use of mediation as an alternative to prosecution for cases of domestic violence. The associations have been bringing these claims for many years. We support, with them, the progress that is contained in the text we are considering. As for the provisions on harassment and respect for privacy within the couple, the explicit mention of suicide or attempted suicide as a consequence of moral harassment within the couple and its imposition of specific sanctions is a step forward. This will make it possible to take into account a reality that is too often ignored. Similarly, the prohibition of geolocation of a spouse, without her consent, is a necessity to protect women victims of domestic violence, who are often the subject of digital espionage. In 2018, the Hubertine Auclert Centre published a survey on domestic cyberviolence. Of the 302 victims interviewed, 21% report having been monitored remotely without their partner's consent through spy software or other tracking devices – a figure that is probably underestimated, is stated in the report. 69 per cent of responding women believe that their partner or ex-spouse has had access to information contained in their telephone, e-mail or network account. 44% indicated that their partner knew their travels without telling him. Our main reservation to this bill concerns the lifting of medical secrecy. The law allows health-care personnel to bring to the attention of the public prosecutor their conviction that a person would be the victim of violence within his or her marriage and that he or she would be in immediate danger and under the influence of the alleged perpetrator. This provision raises questions in the light of the principle of medical secrecy. This fundamental principle guarantees the patient absolute freedom of conversation with the practitioner, without concealing any affection or practice the public disclosure of which would lead to family, professional or social consequences for the patient. This lifting of medical secrecy could undermine trust between the patient and the healthcare professional. While the National Council of the Order of Physicians has supported this measure, it is far from unanimous in the medical world and even raises legitimate concerns. The College of General Medicine has thus strongly opposed the lifting of medical secrecy, which it considers counterproductive. Many doctors are hostile to this measure. Gilles Lazimi, a doctor and consultant of SOS Women 93, located in my department, considers that it would be "a further violence for these women to be betrayed by their doctor". In the same vein, the National Council of the Order of Midwives expressed deep reservations about the easing of medical secrecy and called for its rejection. It considers that the proposed law makes the current legislative framework less intelligible. The lifting of professional secrecy legitimately raises the question of women's right to make their own choices, including when they are victims of domestic violence. According to many associations, experience shows the need for the victim to be ready and willing to act effectively. In addition, the proposed scheme could prove counterproductive and harmful as women victims could no longer dare to confide in the health professional and reject his assistance, thereby increasing their isolation. Finally, a report without or against the patient's opinion could endanger the woman and her children, who are victims of domestic violence, if they are not immediately protected by security. However, given the lack of emergency accommodation and the dysfunctions noted in the report of the General Inspectorate of Justice last October on homicides or attempted homicides in 2015 and 2016, one can only be circumspect. Therefore, rather than encouraging health professionals to report in the place of victims, it would seem more appropriate to encourage them to accompany victims of domestic violence in their complaints and to train them more with the assistance of the police, justice and associations. This bill, as in general the fight against domestic violence, can only be effective if, at the same time, substantial budgetary resources are deployed. However, the announcements of 25 November at the conclusion of the Grenelle against domestic violence are, to say the least, disappointing in this respect. The budget remains largely inadequate. The 360 million euros mentioned by the Prime Minister are almost equivalent to the 2019 appropriations. However, according to the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, EUR 500 million per year would be needed to protect women filing complaints. [[Hugo Bernalicis applauds]] In the end, despite our reservations – we will introduce amendments to improve the text, especially on medical secrecy – we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u18	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u19	Her name was Rebecca, she was 44. Rebecca died on December 30 under the blows of her companion in a village in northern France. In the past, she had filed a complaint against him for violence. Her first name came to close the terrible list of women killed under the blows of their husband or ex-husband in 2019. At least 148 women were killed directly by their spouse or ex-spouse in 2019. At least seventy-seven of them were mothers, four were pregnant and three were killed with their daughter. They leave behind at least 171 orphans: of them, 19 children witnessed the murders and six discovered the body. And how many men were killed by their spouses, those men we never talk about? Many men are also victims of domestic violence. But these victims are not statistics; They have faces, names, first names and families. Behind the figures are children who will grow up without their mother, parents who will grow old without their daughter. Ladies and gentlemen, our House has taken too long to act, and yet we have not remained inactive. In 2009, Prime Minister François Fillon, under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, declared violence against women as a major national cause. The right gave rise to the law of 9 July 2010 on violence against women specifically, violence within couples and the impact of such violence on children, of which our colleague Guy Geoffroy was one of the rapporteurs, and which had been adopted unanimously. Yes, the Republicans group is responsible for the creation of the protection order, the recognition of psychological violence, forced marriage as an aggravating circumstance and the presumption of non-consent to criminal mediation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u21	Still recently, the Republicans chose to devote their parliamentary niche, on October 10, 2019, to domestic and domestic violence. The bill to act against domestic violence, which was adopted unanimously by our colleague Aurélien Pradié, allowed for the amendment of the protection order, the introduction of the anti-approximation bracelet, the inclusion in the register of prohibitions on the acquisition and possession of weapons by violent spouses, the simplification of the allocation of the serious danger telephone, and, at my request, the withdrawal of parental authority for the convicted parent. The measure had been rejected by your Government and your majority, but was reinstated through the mobilization of the opposition in the Joint Joint Committee. Thus, what was considered unconstitutional one day became constitutional the next day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u22	Magic on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u23	We also supported the proposed law on domestic violence and its impact on children, which provided for the automatic withdrawal of parental authority for the most serious cases and the precision of the concept of violence, particularly economic and sexual violence, but you chose to oppose it. Yes, the awareness that is taking place on this issue is salutary, but I regret that we are reforming in small parts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u24	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u25	In 2018, you declared the fight against domestic violence as a major national cause. But why not, together with us and all the groups in this House, have drawn up a great text? You make this subject a great cause of the quinquennium, but without additional means, our measures and yours will not be effective enough. Yes, financial resources, with controls, must be deployed to improve the care of victims, support for associations, emergency shelter for victims and training of staff. Let us all say that violence is the weapon of the weak, the refuge of the incompetent. To the courage of the victims who denounce their executioner, to those children who live in physical and psychological suffering, we cannot respond with cowardice, silence, division or inaction. No more than we can answer: "we will see later"; families now suffer. Yes, don't doubt it, there's an emergency! I believe that we must never lose sight of the mechanism of control and power revealed by domestic violence, particularly against children. Almost every day, violent spouses use the children. Almost every day, the latter are helpless in this domestic violence. Almost every day, this violence continues. We must therefore go further and recognize them as true victims and recognize the direct or indirect violence against these children as contrary to human dignity. This violation of human rights and the rights of the child must come to an end. It must be denounced with the greatest force and publicly. We need to put this into practice today. The Republican Group, as always, looks at this bill in a constructive spirit. We will have questions, such as the lifting of medical secrecy, points of agreement or perhaps differences. We will propose amendments which, I hope, will allow us and allow you to get out of the postures. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must raise awareness that everyone in society feels a responsibility in an area that has been ignored for far too long. Many families are waiting, many children are waiting, and I would like to conclude by quoting Charles Péguy's beautiful phrase: "hope, this little girl of nothing at all" which can do anything. Let us not disappoint the families who are waiting, let us not leave the children still trapped in this domestic violence and let us finally act for them in a concrete way which, I hope, will enable them to get out of the grip of these violent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u26	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u27	The Grenelle against domestic violence, organized by the Government on 3 September 2019, was a useful way to raise awareness of domestic violence in society as a whole. The bill that we will be debating follows the law of 28 December 2019 to act against violence within the family – Pradié law – which was the result of a day of parliamentary initiative by the Republicans Group, and is a useful complement to a mechanism by addressing the victims of domestic violence. But two bills passed at an interval of one month, and demonstrating our assembly's consensus on neighbouring concerns, do not facilitate, acknowledge, the legibility of the legislator's work and its appropriation by those for whom this text is intended. Finally, in 2014, France ratified the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. GREVIO – Expert Group on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence – issued its first report at the end of 2019. He pointed out that the gaps that persisted in France were linked to a society that was struggling to integrate the equality of women and men into reality. This bill, after the Pradieu Act, makes progress on very complex concepts that would probably have deserved an impact assessment. In this regard, I will make four observations. The first concerns parental authority: one can only agree with the measures taken to protect the child. Following the Pradieu law, the measures aimed at automatic examination of parental authority in cases of domestic violence are not debated – except to understand what changes with the previous text. It is clear that the judge must have the hand to take the appropriate measures. On the other hand, with regard to medical secrecy, which is the subject of my second observation, the provisions do not appear to be relevant to the Socialist and related group. On the contrary, they appear to us to be rushed. The lifting of medical secrecy would lead to a risk of counterproductive reporting. If the victims know that the doctor will inform the prosecutor against their will, they will no longer have confidence in him and will give up making an appointment. We sincerely fear that the cure will be worse than evil. The assessment of the immediate danger, even if the case law enshrines this concept, seems too uncertain to establish a procedure. On the other hand, we consider it appropriate to insist on the support and referral of victims to networks of specialised actors and associations. The "I will keep the secrets that will be entrusted to me" is an old ethical imperative which is in line with the great law of 2002 on the rights of the sick in the face of the all-power medical of that time. Finally, we all know that the notion of right-of-way and peril appears in the law and allows the physician to act in conscience. My third point concerns mediation. It is recognized that this does not constitute an appropriate procedure in the context of domestic violence. For this reason, we had already proposed to remove this mechanism in the context of the review of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill. It should also be noted that article 48 of the Istanbul Convention prohibits, with regard to violence against women, alternative methods of resolving compulsory conflicts, including mediation and conciliation. We can only approve this ban, even if it is late. In our view, this same reflection should apply to the criminal composition. This procedure also involves a meeting between the victim and the perpetrator, whom we seek to avoid by any means. Article 56 of the Istanbul Convention states that States must ensure that contacts between victims and offenders are avoided within the courts, as well as at the premises of law enforcement agencies. Let us therefore be consistent and examine the criminal composition with regard to domestic violence. Finally, with regard to legal aid, the bill seems to me to be unambitious. The report by my colleagues Philippe Gosselin and Naïma Moutchou on this subject called for this aid to be granted in law and without conditions of resources for victims of domestic violence, as soon as a complaint was lodged. Rather, the text refers to a decree that will list the procedures for which provisional admission to legal aid would be automatic. We can only be disappointed by the reference to the regulatory area of a list which can be amended if desired. The legislator has lost his hand on this point. In conclusion, with my sincere respect for the work of the rapporteur, I would point out that two bills do not make a framework law...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u29	... and that the practical implementation of the measures that we will adopt, such as those taken under the Pradieu Act, will require financial resources. In this regard, I welcome the recent initiative of the Minister of the Interior, which provides for the financing of social workers in the gendarmerie and in the police station, but this mechanism, which is too random in the territory, should not be operational at the earliest in 2021. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie applauds]] It is now that the actors are fully mobilized to win in this fight against domestic violence and violence against women; work with the departments should force us in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u30	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u31	149, it is the number of women who died in 2019 under the blows of their spouses, which represents an increase of 18% compared to 2018. It is a violence that affects all women, between 15 and 92 years old and throughout France. These figures remind us of the urgency of action. Today, however, it is a half-tone text that you propose to us, because if a number of measures go in the right direction – I am thinking of the suspension of parental authority in the case of the voluntary killing of one parent by the other parent, or the prohibition of the geolocation of one spouse without his consent – I regret that others are not included in the law. In particular, I am referring to a simple and effective measure that we are implementing in Béziers, aimed at establishing active cooperation between the emergency services of hospitals or clinics and the law enforcement agencies, in order to make it easier for victims of violence to lodge complaints. In concrete terms, we are working to ensure that the hospital, the national police, the gendarmerie and the municipal police work hand in hand to help abused women, not only by collecting complaints more quickly, but also by responding more easily to problems caused by violent spouses to the emergency services. Working on the subject, we realized that only 10% of women filed complaints after having suffered violence: it's far too little! When a woman has been beaten and goes to the hospital for treatment, it is difficult for her to go and file a complaint with the police station or the gendarmerie. Very often, between the hospital and the police station or the gendarmerie, she passes through her home, where she falls under the influence of the violent spouse. So what to do? They should be facilitated and victims' complaints received within the emergency department without being deterred from doing so. In Béziers, I told you, we are currently studying practical solutions so that this can be done in complete discretion and with trained staff. Madam rapporteur, I understand that, for technical reasons, you believe that this kind of initiative falls within the competence of the territories. I do not hope to show you how much, by including this measure in the law, we would send a strong message to women. I also regret that the penalties for harassment that leads the victim to commit suicide are no more severe. There must be a difference in punishment between harassment that leads to a suicide attempt and one that leads to the death of a person. However, it is estimated that 218 women committed suicide in 2018 as a result of physical and moral violence. In committee, I was told that the Grenelle's working group on domestic violence, which proposed the drafting of article 7 of the draft law, considered that "a procedure under way was not appropriate, both because of its cumbersome nature and because of a desire to submit the offence to professional magistrates before bringing it before a popular jury". On this point, I wonder: is there less severe punishment in France for an act on the grounds of a cumbersome procedure? However, a few months ago we had to vote for a text that was supposed to reform the justice system in depth so that – we were assured – we could be as close as possible to the litigants. In addition, I do not hide my concern about the implementation of Article 8, which will make the doctor a whistleblower and lead him to renounce medical confidentiality. I find it dangerous, because the victim could give up consulting, for fear of being reported to the public prosecutor. Especially since the law already provides for a duty to act in the event of imminent danger, under the penalty of being guilty of non-assistance to persons in danger. I remain convinced that the best service a doctor can do to a battered woman, beyond the care, is to give her enough confidence to go and file a complaint. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to a figure contained in the annual report of the delegation to the victims of the Directorates-General of the National Police and the National Gendarmerie, published on 10 July. In 2018, out of 149 murders committed between spouses or ex-spouses, men and women combined, 31 were committed by perpetrators over 70 years of age, mostly at the time of the announcement of the illness of one of the couple's members. This makes you want to go a little further than the "femicide" category.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u32	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u33	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u34	I have before me two amendments, Nos 116 and 136, to re-establish the Article, which can be discussed together. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor in support of Amendment No 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u35	Article 2 has been deleted by the committee. The purpose of this amendment is to restore it to a new wording. In article 377 of the Civil Code, instead of using the concept of "crime committed against the other parent that resulted in the death of the other parent", we propose to list a number of crimes, including poisoning, which does not necessarily result in the death of the victim. The absence of a reference to the consequences of crimes would broaden the scope of the text. Above all, the proposed law would now deal with the attempt of the crimes so listed, since the concept of attempt was not included in the current wording of articles 377 and 378-2 of the Civil Code. Of course, the Penal Code provides that anyone who tries to commit a crime is the author of the crime, but the civil judge – I would like to draw your attention to this point, ladies and gentlemen – may have a restrictive interpretation of the articles of the Civil Code that I have just mentioned, when it comes to restricting a fundamental right, parental authority. Finally, article 378-2 of the Civil Code, which came out of the law of 28 December 2019, refers to "the parent prosecuted or sentenced, even not definitively". However, this formulation is redundant, since convicted persons who are not definitively convicted are necessarily prosecuted persons. The amendment tends to correct this editorial malfeasance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u36	Amendment No 136 by Mr Hervé Saulignac is being defended. Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u37	I would point out that these amendments tend to modify the drafting of articles of the Civil Code resulting from the Act of 28 December 2019. I would like to put three arguments against them. First, the law refers not only to the crimes that led to the death of the other parent, but to all crimes committed against the spouse. Thus, situations in which the victim survived, whether rape or mutilation, are also covered. In such cases, it goes without saying that the surviving victim in possession of his means will now exercise parental authority alone; there is no need to delegate this to a third party. Secondly, the attempt is not covered by the law, but the criminal code holds for the perpetrator of a crime the one who attempted to commit it, became an accomplice or sponsored it. Of course, we could be clearer by explicitly adding the attempt in the law, but why don't we just as explicitly mention the punishment of the accomplice parent or the sponsor parent? Actually, we wouldn't end it... Let us stay that way, because the intention of the legislator is very clear: to target the perpetrator of the crime regardless of the form of his participation or the result of his package. Thirdly, the objective of the law of 28 December 2019 was to cover as many situations as possible, to take into account new elements involved in the relationship between a violent parent and a child. It then seemed to the legislator that a conviction by a court of assize must necessarily entail a review by the family court of the manner in which parental authority is exercised. I agree with that provision. I therefore invite the authors of the amendments to withdraw them. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u38	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u39	These amendments would result in the victim's parent being deprived of the exercise of parental authority over his or her children, even if he or she was not physically unable to do so. It seems to me that this would not meet exactly the objective we are aiming for. That is why I too am asking for their withdrawal, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u40	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u41	I would like to reply, in law, about the notion of attempt. There is an incomprehension; Perhaps I have not been sufficiently clear. The practical problem raised by this text, as well as by Mr Pradié's bill, is not to punish the perpetrator of an attempt to commit a crime, but to deprive him of one of his rights, parental authority. It is therefore hardly relevant to oppose the legal principle that the perpetrator of an attempted crime is punished as the perpetrator of the crime. That is why I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u42	We come to amendments to the additional article after Article 2. Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendments Nos 205 and 204, as amended, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u43	Amendment No 205, as corrected, seeks to make it compulsory to take account of the child's words in proceedings aimed at delegating parental authority, in accordance with Article 388-1 of the Civil Code, which provides that, in any proceedings concerning him or her, a minor capable of discernment may be heard by the judge, who informs him or her of his or her right to refuse such hearing and of his or her right to be assisted by a lawyer. The procedure for delegating parental authority directly concerns the child. That is why he must be able to exercise his right to be heard. We therefore propose that article 377 of the Civil Code be supplemented by the following paragraph: "Before deciding on the delegation of parental authority, the court shall collect the word of the child, if the child is capable of discernment, in accordance with article 388-1 of this Code. » Amendment No 204, as corrected, is in exactly the same spirit. I would point out that the right of the child to participate in decisions affecting him or her is a fundamental right recognized by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Similarly, Article 26 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention, urges France to take "the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that, in the provision of protection and support services to victims, the rights and needs of children who witness all forms of violence covered by the scope of this Convention are duly taken into account".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u44	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u45	We have discussed this at length, Mrs Provendier, particularly in committee. Of course, the child's words must be heard when possible and, above all, when desirable. I remind you of the terms of article 388-1 of the Civil Code: "In any proceedings concerning him, a minor capable of discernment may, without prejudice to the provisions providing for his intervention or consent, be heard by the judge [...]. Such a hearing shall be entitled to be heard when the minor so requests. Where the minor refuses to be heard, the judge shall assess the merits of the refusal. He or she may be heard alone, with a lawyer or a person of his or her choice. If this choice does not appear to be in the interests of the minor, the judge may appoint another person. » Of course, the question of discernment remains. However, we will all agree, there is a question of age: when the child is too young, the child cannot be heard. Article 388-1 of the Civil Code already responds to your request. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u47	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u48	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u49	I obviously share your concern that the child should be heard and that her word should be better taken into account, Mrs Provendier. That is indeed the spirit of the Istanbul Convention. However, as the rapporteur pointed out, Article 388-1 of the Civil Code already allows the judge, when he considers it necessary, to hear the minor, if he is capable of discernment. However, I do not believe that the hearing of the child should be systematic. Care must be taken: in a context of severe domestic violence, it could prove counterproductive. I would like to draw your attention to this point. The provisions referred to invite the judge to take into account the context of violence and to suspend parental authority. That's the priority. I support the request to withdraw the amendments. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am very committed to the Istanbul Convention, but it does not seem to me that it calls for a systematic hearing of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u50	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u51	We absolutely agree on the substance. My two amendments seek to clarify Article 388-1 of the Civil Code. They were inspired by experiences I have gathered in the context of my community commitments: in fact, although the child's hearing is planned, there is no systematic question as to whether his or her words should be collected. I do not agree with one of your arguments, Madam rapporteur: discernment is a question not of age, but of maturity and context. The purpose of my amendments is to insist on the possibility of hearing the child, which must never be forgotten, if it is thought to be in his or her interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u52	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 213, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u53	It differs from the previous ones. When a child attends scenes of domestic violence, the consequences on his or her health and development can be important: anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, loss of self-esteem, identity building based on stereotypical beliefs about women and men... There is also a risk of reproduction of violent behaviour. It is therefore imperative that the child be accompanied and listened to so that he/she can rebuild and care for himself/herself after such trauma. When declaring the total or partial withdrawal of parental authority, the court wishes to protect the child and enable him/her to be built in a healthy family environment. With this amendment, we propose to continue this protection work, allowing the judge to pass over to psychosocial support professionals. We therefore wish to supplement article 378-1 of the Civil Code with the following paragraph: "When the court pronounces the total or partial withdrawal of parental authority, it directs the child towards a psychosocial support structure responsible for assessing the specific accompaniment he or she needs. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u54	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u55	You are again raising an important issue, Mrs Provendier. However, the provision you are proposing would not be in the right place: article 378-1 of the Civil Code concerns the withdrawal of parental authority not for violence against the child or other parent, but for the poor upbringing of the child, the bad example given to the child or the neglect of the child. It goes without saying that the cases you are targeting are evidence of a dysfunctional home and raise social issues. In such cases, not only do the competent social services intervene to accompany the child following the withdrawal of parental authority, but they are usually present well before. They are sometimes even at the origin of the request for withdrawal of parental authority or sought as an expert by a family member. All I did was repeat the answer I gave you in committee. The Government may wish to provide additional information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u56	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and for Combating Discrimination, to give the Government's opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u57	The opinion is also unfavourable. In practice, the court is already directing the child, in the case of withdrawals from parental authority, towards a social support structure. In addition, the provision you are proposing does not fall within the scope of the law. Last but not least, the custody of the seals, the Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, in charge of child protection, and I myself believe that it can prove counterproductive: to systematically orient the child towards a psycho-social accompaniment structure, the system should be improved. We are working on this because it is not satisfactory as it stands – I share this observation with you –: as part of the plan to combat violence against children for 2020-2022, the Government has made two commitments. The first is to create five new psycho-trauma centres by the end of 2020, to strengthen territorial networking. At the end of 2018, ten comprehensive mechanisms for dealing with psycho-trauma for all types of victims had already been created, in line with the commitments made by the President during the declaration of equality between women and men as a major cause of the quinquennium. The second commitment is the introduction of a graduated care course for the care of the child victim, which will be operational on 1 January 2021; It is currently being defined and will integrate the improvement of the identification, the assessment of the needs of the child and the structuring of the psychological and psychosomatic care in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u58	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u59	I thank you very much for these encouraging clarifications. As you will understand, my concern is to ensure that every child who is the victim of such trauma is cared for directly or collaterally; In view of the assurances you give, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u60	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No 49 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u61	It is intended to supplement article 388-2 of the Civil Code by the following paragraph: "The interests of the child appear in opposition to those of his or her legal representatives when the latter are his or her parents, when violence has been committed by one of the parents on the other and on the child, and when there is evidence of a clear hold by one of the spouses on his or her spouse", and to supplement article 706-50 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the following paragraph: "The protection of the interests of the child is not fully ensured by his or her legal representatives when the latter are his or her parents, when violence has been committed by one of the parents on the other and on the child, and when there is evidence of a clear influence by one of the spouses on his or her spouse. » The notion of right-of-way is central here. The Civil Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure already provide for the appointment of an ad hoc administrator to represent the child when, in a proceeding, "the interests of a minor appear in opposition to those of his or her legal representatives". The ad hoc administrator, as he already exists, does not merely represent the minor in court, he accompanies him, supports him, listens to him and becomes his true defender alongside the lawyer. In the case of domestic violence, the ad hoc administrator may already be solicited when the victim parent is shared between his or her child and spouse, or when he or she is overwhelmed by the situation in which he or she is confronted. The ad hoc administrator then becomes a support for the victim parent, taking care of the judicial procedure – accompaniment, steps – while avoiding the choice of the victim parent to arbitrate between the violent spouse and the child. His appointment should therefore not be seen as dispossession for the parent, but as support, within the complex framework of the right-of-way. The amendment does not tend to reinforce the obligation of recourse to the ad hoc administrator, but to specify a fact already recognized by the magistrates and associations: according to the Civil Code, "the interests of the minor appear in opposition to those of the legal representatives" when the parent legal guardian of the child is himself abused and seems to be under the control of the spouse. The retention of this concept of right-of-way provides flexibility for the judge to decide whether or not to appoint an ad hoc administrator.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u63	I understand the interest of your amendment, which we have discussed at length, both in committee and outside – you show conviction on this subject. However, I ask for his withdrawal, failing which I will issue an unfavorable opinion, for the reasons I have indicated to you and which I repeat before the national representative. The judge can already appoint an ad hoc administrator, and I do not think it would be advisable to make this appointment automatic. We know that the first fear of mothers is losing parental authority. However, the ad hoc administrator may request that it be withdrawn from them. As a result, the systematic appointment of an ad hoc administrator would not be a good signal, especially since it could lead to abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u65	I ask for withdrawal, otherwise it will be an unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons. The automaticity you want to introduce does not respond to the reality of situations: it creates a suspicion about the parent who is the victim of violence, but who is able to accompany the child in the proceedings. In my view, article 388-2 of the Civil Code responds to the multiplicity of situations, including in the case of domestic violence: "When, in a proceeding, the interests of a minor appear in opposition to those of his or her legal representatives, the judge [...] appoints an ad hoc administrator to represent him or her. I do not think it would be useful to add a paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u66	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u67	The amendment was not intended to introduce automaticity but to give judges the means to take into account the cases of influence, on which I wanted to draw your attention. This is an important and delicate concept. The grip generates daily drama. The proposal for a law must respond to its specificities. However, I hear your arguments and I know that the discussion on the subject will continue. I will therefore be reasonable in withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u68	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u69	My colleagues and I are pleased that amendments have finally been declared admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u70	On what article is the reminder based?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u71	Article 45 of the Constitution, according to which even an amendment whose link with the text is indirect is admissible at first reading. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] There was no reason why the amendments tabled by Aurélien Pradié or myself should be declared inadmissible. I was therefore very surprised both in substance and in form by such a decision, especially since these amendments were directly related to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u72	This is the regulation, not the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u73	I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Les Républicains group, but also those of the other groups that had signed them, including Stéphane Peu and Sophie Auconia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u74	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u75	The brutality you show in your way of working is not acceptable. I wanted to denounce your unacceptable and discretionary way of dealing with parliamentary work. If I hadn't been battling all afternoon for these amendments to be brought back into the discussion, they wouldn't have been – it's really not a way to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u76	All right, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u77	Thank you, Mrs Boyer, for the point of order that you could legitimately make on the basis of section 45 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u78	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u79	Under article 3, the judge will finally be able to suspend the right of access and accommodation of a person charged with domestic violence or under judicial supervision. I say "at last", because a lack of criminal procedure, particularly harmful to victims of domestic violence, was discovered during the Grenelle and the examination in committee. When a violent parent to his or her spouse is placed at the disposal of the court during the time of the investigation, the judge may, in the course of a judicial review, prohibit him or her from contacting the victim or from going to his or her home – but he or she cannot be prevented from visiting his or her child, which creates practical difficulties. Judicial review measures are designed to monitor the conduct of the person under investigation, through obligations to do or not to do so. They do not allow the criminal judge to arrange the exercise of parental authority. It is understandable that this situation is dangerous, since it allows the alleged perpetrator to contact the victim's parent in the exercise of his or her right of access and accommodation, while the entire judicial process tends to keep him or her at a distance. The protection of victims and the serenity of the investigation are clearly in conflict with the right to education of the perpetrator of violence. Article 3 seeks to establish a balance, enriching the obligations of judicial review by suspending the access and accommodation of the accused child. This is a practical and common sense measure. The suspension is a temporary obligation, since the current investigation seeks to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to warrant referral to a court or assize court: it is worth recalling that at this stage, the accused is not yet found guilty. There is therefore no question of abolishing the fundamental right of any parent to be in contact with his or her children, but of suspending the exercise of parental authority at that particular time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u80	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u81	Article 3 is intended to supplement article 138, paragraph 17, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, concerning the judicial review to which the alleged perpetrator of domestic violence may be subjected during the investigation or investigation phase. It will allow the judge of liberty and detention and the investigating judge to provide for the suspension of access to and accommodation of children, even in the absence of direct violence against them. I agree, of course, with this measure, which will help to protect the victims, but also the children. I had considered a similar measure as early as 2016, in a bill introduced several times. I wanted the right of access to be exercised in a specially designated meeting space for this purpose, where there is a context of violence between parents. It is a fact: it is impossible to protect the mother without protecting the children, because the exercise of parental authority is often a means of perpetuating the control over the mother or even of reproducing the violence. The encounters between the violent parent and the child must be supervised and protected as they are moments of increased risk of exerting pressure or violence on the child and the mother. How can we encourage women to file complaints while forcing them to stay in contact through their children with a violent parent? It is high time to resolve this dilemma that mothers have been facing for many years and to help them free themselves from the grip they have suffered through their children. As children's judge Édouard Durand explains, if the mother is protected, she is given the means to protect her child: there are situations where it may be legitimate to establish a distance with an abusive parent – but domestic violence is abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u82	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u83	It is simply intended to replace the word "may" with the word "must". It is a matter of recalling the best interests of the child in cases of domestic violence, of which he too is a victim – an assertion that is increasingly repeated. A violent spouse cannot be a good parent. Thus, in the interests of the child, parental authority must be suspended when a person commits an offence against a spouse, partner or partner to which he is bound by a civil solidarity pact, either against his child or his spouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u85	The proposed amendment would have the effect of automatically suspending the exercise of parental authority upon the issuance of a home ban against the person suspected of violent behaviour – without any margin of discretion for the criminal judge. If this solution can be preferred by the judge – that is also what we want with this article – it is not possible to make it systematic. On the other hand, the adoption of the amendment would put Article 3 on the quasi-certainty of unconstitutionality. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u87	Opinions were also unfavourable. In essence, we wish to leave to the judge his discretion as to proportionality and the need to provide for the suspension of access and accommodation rights in the interests of the child. If I fully understand your concern, it seems to me that replacing "may" with "must" does not meet the criterion of constitutionality or the need for the judge to assess the singularity of each situation. For all these reasons, request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u88	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u89	I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u90	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u91	We would surely have been able to find an intermediate solution, as we did in the framework of the law to act against domestic violence adopted at the end of last year. I would remind you that we had instituted an automatic suspension of parental authority in the case of a prosecution or conviction for a crime. This measure was intermediate in nature, enabling it to comply with the Constitution while ensuring an automatic suspension of parental authority for six months. Automaticity must be included in the measure. A few weeks ago, a new case was tried on the bench, in which the perpetrator was convicted of attempted murder. However, the judge of the French Republic justified his decision to maintain the exercise of parental authority on the basis of some psychological arguments on the useful link between the violent father and the child concerned. So this is a real problem. I am sorry to say so, but sometimes it is necessary to twist our magistrates' arms a little bit on the issue of parental authority. We could probably have found an intermediate solution: with the verb "may" – which, in my opinion, will render the measure inoperative – I fear that, in many cases, magistrates do not use the faculty given to them. Indeed, we found that, under the protection orders, many magistrates did not use the power to order the removal of weapons from their possession. Maybe they won't be using this new faculty anymore. On the other hand, as Mrs. Keeper of Seals was quite right to say, automaticity would not be constitutional. One of the intermediate solutions could have been, as in the context of the Act on Action against Domestic Violence, to automatically suspend the exercise of parental authority for six months and then to entrust the final decision to the judge. I regret that in committee we have not been able to find a more constructive intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u92	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u93	I just want to abound in the direction of Aurélien Pradie. The possibility of a suspension will certainly only cause very little movement of the lines. Conversely, a time-limited automaticity – whether six months or another period of time – would allow a solution to a situation of immediate and systematic peril to be included in the law. Once the judgement has been rendered, this measure could be corrected by the judge. For once, let us place ourselves on the side of the perpetrator of the violence: on a certain category of authors – not to be overlooked – the measure would not have a deterrent role, but rather a preventive one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u94	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u95	I understand, of course, the concerns of Members Aurélien Pradié, Arnaud Viala and Maud Petit. Nevertheless, the legislator of 28 December chose to reserve automatic suspension to the most serious cases, i.e. to crimes, as Mr Pradie recalled. For the reasons we mentioned earlier, I think it is wise to remain in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u96	On the contrary, I think we need to go further!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u97	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u98	It always concerns my first concern, that the word of the child be heard and gathered in appropriate conditions, as soon as he is capable of discernment. I will not defend it any longer, since the content is the same as that of my previous amendments. I have heard the answers that have been given to me, but many children are still not heard today: the notion of discernment should be clarified. This is not the purpose of this text, but there is room for reflection and progress on this subject. I therefore await the opinions of the rapporteur and the minister, and I will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u100	Same opinion as on the previous amendments tabled by Mrs Provendier: request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u102	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u103	I have before me three amendments, Nos 10, 220 and 11, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Aleksandr Freschi to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u104	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u105	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u106	This afternoon, we adopted the motion for a resolution on the inclusion of children's rights in the work of the National Assembly, tabled by Mrs Florence Provendier. It places the protection and safety of the child at the heart of our legislative work, as the protection of the child takes precedence over everything. Domestic violence creates an unsafe or, worse, dangerous family environment. The existence of domestic violence is, in itself, violence against the child: in fact, it has serious consequences on his psychological state and psyche, and hinders his construction. Is it necessary to remind you of the future of children who have grown up in the midst of domestic violence? Protecting the child therefore means ensuring that there is no danger. Even if the victim parent does not file a complaint, protecting the child is to prevent the danger, not to prove its existence and then to be able to intervene. Is the perpetrator of domestic violence able to ensure the safety and protection of his child? As we have said, in the absence of care and care, this seems a little difficult, because the violent parent exerts a real and intense psychological suffering on his child. His parental authority allows him to retain control of this psyche. Putting the child in the presence of the perpetrator means continuing exposure to trauma and maintaining fear; Maintaining this link in a context of violence means engaging the child in a conflict of loyalty legitimized by a joint parental authority, which gives both parents – the violent parent and the victim parent – the same influence, the same guidance, the same power over the child. Thus, maintaining parental authority or the right of reception is tantamount to maintaining the relationship between the victim and the perpetrator, which renders the protection order ineffective. Of course, legal certainty is needed: the family judge is the master of the duration and the lifting of all or part of the measures; He can decide them when he feels right and right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u107	The next speaker is Mr Aleksandre Freschi, in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u108	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u109	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 220?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u110	The law of 28 December 2019 made it possible to find a balance that I very much wish to maintain. The procedure to be preferred by the victim is the protection order, which now allows all measures relating to parental authority to be taken; Failing this, a public access right may be introduced. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u112	Same opinion. Following the discussions and work carried out in the Grenelle against domestic violence, we have reached a point of balance which is satisfactory and in line with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. As you know, any parent prosecuted or convicted of a crime against the person of the other parent will now have his or her parental authority suspended automatically for a maximum period of six months. The public prosecutor will then have to promptly refer the matter to the family judge for a substantive decision on the exercise of parental authority. It is at this point that the judge will control the interests of the child. The chosen wording is balanced, it allows the child to be protected from the violent parent – that is what we are looking for – while allowing the judge to rule quickly on the merits. I believe that the balance we have achieved is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u113	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u114	I thank Ms. Garde des Sceaux for her answer, but I speak for children's judges, lawyers, associations such as The Voice of the Child, who regularly witness the inadequacy of child protection. For example, I would like to know the number of children growing up in an environment of domestic and domestic violence and receiving treatment, because, when the exercise of parental authority is maintained, the violent parent may object to treatment. This is a serious problem. Today, we often act by default. All the representatives of the legal and associative world whose voice I am speaking ask us to be more incisive in the protection of the child: I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u115	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u116	If we look at this amendment, it is, indeed, because many actors in the field of child protection consider that certain situations can be improved. I would remind you that we unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution on the inclusion of the rights of the child in the work of the National Assembly. The amendment falls within the scope of the resolution. Is it just a simple text or a real will? The amendment stems from the many demands made by child protection actors that we have heard here in the House. These hearings have been the subject of minutes, which suggest that there is room to improve the possibility that we will give the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u117	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u118	I agree with the two colleagues who have just spoken, because I share their point of view. First of all, we did adopt a motion for a resolution on child protection a few hours ago. I would like to point out that only 15 to 20 per cent of violence cases result in a complaint. The three-quarters of these complaints are not subject to criminal prosecution. This lack of complaint and conviction can only be deplored, especially when the parents separate; In fact, parental authority is not suspended, even though it is a situation of great danger: the violent spouse repeats violence and invective towards the victim spouse. We must reflect on the inability of the violent parent to exercise parental authority, at least for the time of the proceedings, because it is a real means of pressure. Dear colleagues of the Republic on the move, you have been creative about the maintenance obligation; Would we not also be able to imagine an automatic measure in cases of violence occurring at the worst moment, that of separation, during which the child should be removed from the violent spouse? I do not understand why a systematic measure of maintenance – that is, once the water has sank under the bridges – could not be considered at the time of separation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u119	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u120	I would like to make a point, in the light of what has just been said by ladies and gentlemen. I would point out that under article 373-2-1 of the Civil Code, the family court may entrust the exercise of parental authority to one of the two parents if the child's interest so orders, even in the absence of a complaint or prosecution. It is therefore not necessary to resort to a complaint or prosecution as you referred to it, M.P. Boyer, in order to entrust parental authority to one of the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u121	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u122	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement Article 378-1 of the Civil Code. He proposed that the scope of the measure should be broadened by including the concept of temporary withdrawal of parental authority during the investigation. Indeed, a total withdrawal would probably be too definitive in this case, while the situation may still evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u124	The withdrawal of parental authority is always temporary, in so far as the deposed parent may at any time apply to the competent judge, whether the family judge or the court, to plead a change in the factual circumstances. The law may provide for an incompressible period of up to one year before the review. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u126	The provisional suspension of the exercise of parental authority was introduced by the law of 28 December 2019: you have made a very recent choice different from that which is defended by this amendment. The Government therefore also expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u127	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u128	The purpose of this amendment is to broaden the scope of the new article 378-2 of the Civil Code by incorporating physical and psychological violence that does not necessarily fall within the definition of a crime. The aim is to suspend the exercise of parental authority and the rights of access and accommodation of the accused parent, until a decision is taken by the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u130	I will deliver the same opinion as on the previous amendment – which would have been the same for Amendment No 242, which is not supported – even if in this amendment your proposal is more restricted. The automaticity of the suspension seems to me to have to be reserved for the most serious cases of violence from one parent to another. In this case, the law of 28 December adopted the concept of crime, indisputable, perfectly defined in law and not open to discussion. The extension of the mechanism to all forms of violence, including the least severely punished, would raise a problem of proportionality. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u131	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u132	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u133	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u134	I would like to refer briefly to the discussions that we had on the occasion of the December 28, 2019 Act, particularly with regard to the automatic suspension of parental authority. First of all, I would like to point out that this debate was not held in a public meeting but in a Joint Joint Committee and that it is pleased that we were able to remove – I am weighing my words – the provision that we are referring to under this law. In all frankness, we have wondered about the opportunity to go further than the notion of crime. For my part, I believe that it is pleased that we were able to have the law of 28 December passed by obtaining, in the Joint Joint Committee, the possibility of automatic suspension of parental authority. I am not sure that we could have voted on such a provision later. In a serene parliamentary debate, the possibility of suspension of parental authority should be extended to situations other than those relating to a crime – especially since this is, I repeat, an automatic suspension for a period of six months, at the end of which the judge's decision prevails. I would add that we have largely dusted protection orders and that they now incorporate the rule of child preservation through the possible suspension of parental authority. I believe, like you, that it is not within the framework of the vehicle that you have proposed that this should be done, but sooner or later we will have to go beyond the category of crimes in order to extend this provision to some aggravated violence. The question of parental authority arises not only in cases of attempted femicides, or femicides committed, but also in the case of the most serious violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u135	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u136	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u137	I will not repeat the rapporteur's explanations. However, I cannot let it be said here that the provision on parental authority would have been removed from the CMP and that, failing that, it would not have been transcribed into the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u138	It is clear, though, that she was!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u139	This provision was announced by Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, in conclusion of the Grenelle against domestic violence. It emerged from the work of the eleven Grenelle groups and the Government had planned to propose it in the context of the present bill, if it had not been integrated into the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u140	Is that a joke, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u141	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am pleased that you have incorporated it, but we also welcome the decision of the Government and the Prime Minister to announce this parental authority measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u142	Madam President...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u143	We have already heard a response to the initial answer on this amendment. Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u144	In order to protect these victims – and above all to avoid as much as possible any risk of femicide – we need to make sure that once the alleged aggressor is denounced and removed from the victim, he or she cannot come closer to her again. Indeed, let us not deceive ourselves on this point: when an aggressor seeks to get closer to his victim, it is not to apologize and to make amends. It is almost systematic in order to continue to exercise its grip and to inflict its violence, or even to reach the ultimate stage of violence and attempt to execute its victim, who is escaping him. In the event of domestic violence, when the victim has managed to take the step of denouncing such violence and initiating legal proceedings, it is up to the public authorities – it is our responsibility – to do everything they can to protect the victim who has already experienced the worst, and who is succeeding in getting out of the vicious circle of domestic violence. Better protection for victims: this is the aim of this amendment. Article 138 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that a judge may subject a person subject to judicial review to several types of obligations. Its 17 ° specifically targets cases of domestic violence to ensure the eviction of the violent spouse from the marital home and to seek the opinion of the alleged victim in this regard. I believe that we need to go even further than this 17° and believe that we can even better protect the victims in the context of judicial checks on violence committed within the couple or by an ex-partner. In particular, I believe that, under this same article of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we should allow the judge to order the suspected spouse not to visit certain places usually frequented by the victim. Of course, the 3° of Article 138 already allows the judge to pronounce this type of prohibition in the context of judicial review. But I am convinced that we need to focus on this issue, because, in the case of domestic violence, the prohibition of a violent spouse from going to certain places is fundamental. This is probably one of the keys to reducing the risk of femicide. On the other hand, I think that we should also provide for the judge to consult the victim on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u145	I invite you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u146	She alone can indicate the risks she faces and the places she usually frequents, where her ex-spouse may seek to contact her. We need to take better account of these realities and the victim's opinion, in order to better protect her. This is the objective of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u148	Mrs Le Peih, you know how much I respect the work of the delegation to women's rights. On this amendment, however, I will make a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavourable opinion. Article 138 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already provides for consultation of the victim when the prohibition against the violent spouse has the effect of being removed from the home. This logic is understandable, since such a decision is likely to upset family life. In the same way, your amendment proposes to seek the victim's opinion on all bans on publication. I would be inclined to consider him satisfied, since the ban on appearance is almost always associated with the prohibition of contact, of which the victim is of course informed. Finally, in order to determine the places in which the prohibition of publication applies, the judge is in practice obliged to obtain from the victim information concerning his or her place of work or the place where the children attend school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u150	My opinion is identical to that of the rapporteur. I fully understand your intention – especially since the ban on appearance is an extremely useful tool, as we mobilize in several instances. The law of 28 December added it to the contents of the protection order, of which you know that it is an important tool to ensure the protection of the victim. Article 138 specifies, as you yourself have pointed out, in its 3°, the possibility of a ban on appearance, which comes in excess of the 17° of that same article, specifying all the measures that can be taken in case of domestic violence. It seems to me in these circumstances that your amendment would not add any additional elements. That is why I wish it to be withdrawn and will, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u151	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u152	The measure provided for in Article 4 was and remains particularly expected by the Grenelle participants against domestic violence. It eliminates family mediation in divorce proceedings or in the exercise of parental authority, where there are allegations of violence within the couple or where there is a clear hold of one spouse over the other. This is also a measure of common sense. Family mediation is an amicable mode of conflict resolution that brings the two spouses together to discuss in the presence of a third party, to renew the dialogue. It may be interesting and useful in the event of a conflict but cannot take place in a context of violence. How can we expect a happy outcome between spouses when there is a situation of violence? How can we believe that a balanced compromise is possible when one of the spouses is in a position of control and fears for his or her safety or that of his or her children? Such a relationship is fundamentally unbalanced. It is this frightening reality that Article 4 seeks to correct by removing the possibility of family mediation in these cases – especially since the law of 18 November 2016 on the modernization of justice of the 21st century has made mediation attempts mandatory in advance of any referral to the judge, for example with regard to the exercise of parental authority. I can therefore only invite you to vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u153	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u154	Article 4 of this bill proposes to restrict the practice of family mediation in a context of domestic violence. An amendment by the rapporteur re-establishes the drafting precision resulting from the proposed law of Aurélien Pradié for the violence no longer committed but alleged, so that this restriction can take place earlier, since acts of violence are alleged against the other spouse. I can only agree with this new preventive wording, which clearly provides for better protection of mothers and children. I admit, however, that I am somewhat lost. Last October, on the same subject, the La République en marche group defended a position in the opposite of the one it adopted today. At the time, I had, of course, voted in favour of the amendment by our colleague Stéphane Peu, like many other colleagues, but my arguments were rejected. This amendment to act against domestic violence did not impose family mediation in cases of suspicion of violence, without waiting for it to be demonstrated. In this case, it seems dangerous to subject the victim of violence, and potentially his or her children, to mediation with the violent spouse. The measure provided for in Article 4 will clearly improve the protection of victims by avoiding contact between the violent spouse and the abused spouse, as I have tried to explain earlier. The door to mediation should not be left open in the event of suspicion of violence or influence during divorce proceedings or when there is a problem with the exercise of parental authority. In a situation of repetitive violence, it would be dangerous to allow time for mediation between the two spouses and their children. Our role is to protect the victims of their execution and not to create opportunities for encounters. Although I welcome such a development, I am surprised to see that you are now taking back arguments rejected at the time with the same conviction. How can we change our minds so categorically in such a short time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u155	"At the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u156	Since we all agree, we should have proposed a common text, trans-partisan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u158	[[Mr Vincent Descoeur and Mr Stéphane Peu applause]] ...as I have always sought to do in recent years on these subjects. It is regrettable to want to attribute a political colour to proposals of common sense. After the Grenelle against domestic violence, it is really regrettable to work in such conditions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u159	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u160	I would like to speak very briefly to dispel an incomprehension that has occurred in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Because we preferred the term "alleged violence" over "violence committed", because the original bill retained the second expression when the law of 28 December last made the choice of the first, some of our colleagues wondered what the contribution of this article 4 was to the law in force. I'll let you know. First, we are closing the way for mediation in civil matters in cases of manifest right-of-way. It is a complete novelty, a word that did not previously exist in our law. So it's not nothing. Secondly, it is fair to say that the law of 28 December 2019 closed civil mediation in case of alleged violence – or rather, it is half right. By an amendment by Mr Stéphane Peu, in fact, and as Valérie Boyer pointed out, the National Assembly closed civil mediation in matters of parental authority. That is something that we consider to be acquired. Simply, the legislator had neglected the second form of family mediation provided for in the Civil Code in the case of divorces in dispute. We therefore correct this omission in the same way. I hope that the legitimate incomprehension that some colleagues may have felt has been lifted and that everyone now understands the reason for this Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u161	On identical amendments Nos 36 and 71, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Erwan Balanant, in support of Amendment No. 115, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u162	As much as I am satisfied that we are introducing the notion of grip, although it must be "obvious", that is, strong and proven, so much so that I am concerned about your choice to use the term "alleged violence". Indeed, I have sought the definition of the word "claim": "to put forward, to rely on a more or less well-established fact, an ill-founded evidence". We could thus find ourselves in a very perverse situation – but sometimes we are dealing with perverts – where a man or woman under control will claim violence that does not exist; In this way, he will be able to avoid mediation when it might have been necessary, since there has never been violence but a grip that no one has seen. Don't laugh, rapporteur, we can have differences of appreciation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u163	I'm not laughing, I'm talking to the administrators about your question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u164	[["Very good! » on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We therefore propose replacing the words "violence is alleged by one of the spouses" with the words "one of the spouses is prosecuted or convicted for violence committed". Indeed, the notion of allegation seems to me rather fragile legally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u166	Of course, Mr. Balanant, I wasn't laughing at you. Let's take the case you described of a woman who would lie...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u167	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u168	...or invent violence. What's the point of having a mediation with someone who's lying? Since the aim of mediation is to find a compromise, this procedure would be doomed to failure. Let us therefore stay on to the "alleged violence", an expression that is found in the law of 28 December 2019: thus, we will ensure that the two texts are coherent. Again, in case of a lie, mediation is of no interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u170	Mr Balanant, allow me to make two points to answer your questions. The concept of alleged "violence" seems to me to be consistent with the Constitution and current practice observed by family judges at the request of the Chancellery. Indeed, a circular dated 26 July 2017, which you know, indicates that the judge will have to "assess whether there are serious reasons to consider as probable the commission of the alleged acts of violence in view of the evidence before him [...]". On the merits, therefore, we ask the judge to rule on "alleged violence". Moreover, the law of 28 December 2019 used this terminology. Mrs Boyer, it is not because the members of the La République group who are on the move and the Government have suddenly changed their minds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u171	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u172	...but for a simple reason of consistency and logic that we prefer to use the same texts in both texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u173	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u174	You've changed your mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u175	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u176	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u177	Everyone knows my commitment to this issue. Madam Keeper of the Seals, we agree on the substance, but you have just quoted your circular of 26 July 2017, which I obviously knew and which asks the judge to "assess whether there are serious reasons to consider as probable the commission of the alleged acts of violence". In this bill, the situation is different, since "violence is alleged by one of the spouses". Look at the hiatus between your circular, which is very fair, and the bill, which presents frailties!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u179	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u180	I'm seeing some confusion. We are discussing a law of protection and not a criminal law: the law is not intended to punish reprehensible acts but to protect victims of domestic violence when such violence is detected and all the magistrates seized are in urgent need. The concept of alleged violence effectively creates a presumption of good faith for the benefit of the victim of domestic violence. This presumption seems useful to me – and that is why we passed the law of 28 December last. Mr Balanant's amendment, which is intended to replace a situation of alleged violence with a situation in which "one of the spouses is prosecuted or sentenced for violence committed", seems paradoxical to me, at the very least, to the extent that the person prosecuted is prosecuted on the basis of alleged facts and is not condemned. That doesn't make any sense! Since this law is intended to protect the victim from domestic violence, it must of course be given the benefit of the facts to which she claims to be a victim, at least until the day of conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u182	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u183	Let me first respond to Mrs Schiappa's comments on parental authority. Madam Secretary of State, unfortunately you were not there when we examined, as part of the niche of the Republicans group, the bill by Aurélien Pradien and mine. As a result, you have not been able to hear our constant response, both in committee and in public session, that the proposals we were defending on parental authority were unconstitutional. For my part, I heard this argument for hours and hours when I organised my hearings, then during the examination of my bill in committee, and finally very briefly during the few moments when the question of the suspension of parental authority in the event of domestic violence was raised in public session – it was very brief because the discussion of the text could not reach its conclusion. I therefore agree with what Aurélien Pradié said earlier: this provision was removed from the Joint Joint Committee, and I regret it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u184	We were not members of the Joint Joint Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u185	... because I would have liked to have been able to discuss it in this House. This is a particularly important measure that I have been defending myself for many years and was one of the Prime Minister's first proposals. So, Madam Secretary of State, you cannot say what you said earlier about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u186	That is not the subject of my amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u187	I think we would all appreciate it if you considered that the opposition's proposals can be properly considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u188	I have before me three amendments, Nos 22, 36 and 71, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 36 and 71 are identical. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u189	As I have already explained in committee, the concept of right-of-way is not legally defined. This term is more a matter of psychoanalysis than of legislation. I therefore wonder about the arbitrary nature of the judge's decision to rule on this approximate concept. How will he assess the intellectual or moral ascendant of one person on the other? How do we measure the attraction of one party to another? It is not for the legislator to include subjective perceptions, notions of the order of the feeling in the law; On the other hand, it has the power to introduce clear and legally defined provisions. My amendment is therefore a call for clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u190	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u191	I have already tabled this amendment in committee, which, to my great regret, has been rejected. I am defending it again today in a public session with the satisfaction that several of my colleagues have co-signed it or tabled an identical amendment – it is good news, I am delighted that everyone has measured its importance! The purpose of this amendment is therefore to remove the need for the right of way to be "manifest" in order to prevent mediation. Indeed, the grip is too insidious to be restricted in this way. Moreover, in civil proceedings, it is not an embarrassment to provide for a wider scope of application to better protect victims: the judge will thus be able to freely assess the existence of the hold without being bound by its manifest character. Finally, the Government proposes a global rewrite of article 8, where the notion of right-of-way appears without any particular adjective, which shows that the idea is shared; In the interests of consistency and consistency, it seems appropriate to do the same in Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u192	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u193	Seizure is an absolutely fundamental concept in understanding the mechanisms at work in domestic violence. These violences are very specific and operate according to a particular pattern characterized, inter alia, by this phenomenon of domination, by the desire for discretion in the life of the couple, by the weight of family burdens and social agreements, or by the fear of consequences for children. It must be understood that the victims are trapped in this intimate environment which is difficult to escape: they share or have shared the life of their aggressor, they have once loved and trusted the perpetrator of the violence, and this is sometimes still the case. It must also be understood that denouncing the violence they suffer in the intimate setting can be synonymous with shame, disapproval and suspicion. In addition, by starting this process, they sometimes take the risk of breaking their personal, family and professional balance. All these aspects must be carefully considered in order to understand, support and effectively assist victims of domestic violence. I believe that the introduction of the term "capture" in our penal code is a huge step, a giant step to better take into account the specificity of such violence. However, we must be careful in how to handle and understand this concept. The latter has not yet been defined uniformly by health professionals and domestic violence, although I think we can retain the definition proposed by Dr. Muriel Salmona, for whom the grip is "a process of psychic colonization by the violent spouse which has the consequence of annihilating [the] will" of the victim. However, as we have just introduced this concept into our law, this bill speaks of two things, the "right-of-way", without further clarification, in its section 8, and the "manifest right-of-way" in its section 5. This seems to me to be an unnecessary complication which may cause problems of interpretation and legibility of the law, besides that it is a bit absurd: if one can see that there is a hold, it is obvious. With a view to simplification and efficiency in the protection of victims, this amendment therefore proposes to stick to the simple notion of grabbing without complicating it with qualifiers subject to differences of interpretation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u195	It will obviously be against your amendment, Mrs Lorho, since it goes against the objective of this article, which, by introducing the notion of control, constitutes a considerable advance and expected by the families of the victims and the associations that have been fighting for years for the recognition of this phenomenon. I have considered a moment to accept your amendments, Mrs Auconia and the rapporteur, but the word "manifest" is in fact indispensable. This qualifier will allow the judge to assess the reality of the right-of-way situation when, in his absence, it will be for the victim to prove that he or she is under the control of his or her spouse or former spouse, for example. The lawyers whom I consulted on this subject have convinced me that it would be counterproductive to withdraw this qualifier and that deleting it would run counter to the very purpose of the article, which, I am sure, is not your intention. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal; Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u197	The reality of the grip will obviously have to be assessed by the judge, as is the case with other notions of our law, such as the notion of coercion in relation to rape. In the case of changes in law, this concept is not or is not sufficiently characterized by definition. We can, however, welcome this because it is a proposal by the Grenelle Working Group against Domestic Violence on psychological violence, a concept that is insufficiently recognized by society as a whole. It also responds to a request from the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, GREVIO, in the context of France's assessment of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. Indeed, as you know, France is conducting the global ratification campaign of this Convention and we are committed to bringing our right into line with it. However, according to GREVIO, our law does not sufficiently define the concept of psychological violence. This provision will make it possible to move forward on this issue. Furthermore, if the intentions of the authors of the amendments to delete the term "manifest" were laudable, the adoption of those amendments would have the opposite effect. Indeed, this qualifier exempts the victim from proving the right-of-way. If it were removed, the burden of proof would be on the victim. That is why we believe that the notion of "manifest" is more protective for the victim. Finally, contrary to what the authors of the identical amendment No. 189, which is not defended, there is no inconsistency between this concept of manifest right-of-way and Article 8 of this bill, which is intended to introduce into the Penal Code the only concept of right-of-way, since these are different things. Article 4 concerns judges, while Article 8 concerning professional secrecy concerns doctors. They are able, given their training, expertise and practice, to detect any situations of right-of-way, including those that would not be obvious. That is why the Government is giving an opinion against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u198	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u199	I would like to go along with what has just been said by the rapporteur and the minister. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be a confusion between the "manifest" hold and the "characterized" hold. The manifest hold is revealed by the judge's assessment, and it is the judge's freedom of assessment that motivates Ms. Lorho's rejection. It is precisely this freedom of judgment of the judge that will ensure the effectiveness of the mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u200	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u201	We will vote in favour of Mrs Auconia and Mrs Le Peih's amendments, which we share. You are telling us, Madam rapporteur, that you have consulted with lawyers, but I understand that the delegation for women's rights reached this conclusion after having interviewed several eminent lawyers, and I know that the same is true of Mrs Auconia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u202	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u203	The arguments of the rapporteur and the minister convinced me that this term "manifest" saves the victim the burden of proving the existence of a right-of-way. I even think, to return to the previous debate, that the notion of "manifest violence" would have been stronger than that of "claimed violence".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u204	I repeat Amendment No 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u205	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 36 and 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u206	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 19 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u207	Amendment No 122 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u208	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u209	Article 5 aims to eliminate mediation in criminal matters in cases of domestic violence according to the same logic as Article 4. Indeed, while criminal mediation can be very useful as an alternative in the case of neighbourhood conflicts, for example, the risk of adverse effects in the case of domestic violence is obvious. It is very often seen by the victims as a real sanction against them. The wait is still very strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u210	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u211	The purpose of this article is to prohibit criminal mediation in cases of violence within a couple. In the current state of law, article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure strictly regulates the use of criminal mediation in a context of domestic violence. The article provides that the mediation mission shall be carried out only in the event of an express request from the victim. Avoiding the relationship of the abused woman with her executioner is a real step forward. However, I think that we should go even further, as was proposed in the Committee on Laws on 15 January, for example. To provide a single reminder to the law in case of violence committed, and then a response of another order in case of recidivism, seems to me to be elementary. Indeed, allowing several reminders to be made for similar facts would devalue the public speech, but also the word of justice and reinforce the perpetrator of the violence. If the perpetrator re-offends under the same conditions, it is that the recall to the law did not have the desired effect. In addition, we are several to have stressed in the general discussion that there is a lack of measures in this text relating to the prevention of violence and the follow-up of perpetrators. The idea of an internship seems perfectly suited to me. It's a first step, anyway. He must intervene after a first and only reminder to the law. We must do our utmost to keep the victims away from their executioners and prevent them from further harming them. We should not give the violent spouse the opportunity to repeat his beatings, his insults, his assaults on his victim. Internships, the only reminder of the law, prohibitions of mediation, all solutions that would prevent the recurrence of perpetrators of violence. Above all, this would offer us additional means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u212	I call Mrs Panonacle to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u213	Many women, who see their complaint dealt with by a reminder to the law, express their dismay at this measure, which does not necessarily have the desired effect on the perpetrator of the violence. The latter rarely becomes aware of the seriousness of the facts or risks. This can even, in some cases, amplify violence and put the victim even more at risk. The aim of this amendment is to empower the perpetrator of domestic violence, by systematically adding the reminder to the law to an accountability course to prevent and combat domestic violence. The act that has been committed must of course be punished, but it must also be avoided, and it is not by working exclusively with the victims that it will be possible to do so: the perpetrators must also be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u215	Article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for alternative measures to the prosecution which the public prosecutor may decide, including a reminder of the law and courses of any kind, including those dealing with domestic and gender-based violence. The prosecutor may already decide to issue several of these measures if he deems it appropriate. The amendment proposes to link the reminder to the law with an internship if the suspected offence is linked to domestic violence. I am really not hostile to this, but I would prefer that, in this matter, the freedom of the magistrate be preserved. I fear, however, that if we vote on this amendment, it will become the norm for all offences which may give rise to an internship, whether in road, health or what I know, neutralizing in practice the reminder to the law, which will disappear behind the internship. So I don't think that's a good option. It is necessary to keep open the range of facts available to the prosecutor's office which are not always likely to be characterized and against which the reminder to the law may be just as well a precautionary approach. Request for withdrawal; Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u217	My first point echoes what the rapporteur has just said: it is better to allow the prosecutor the freedom to pronounce either or both rather than order him to combine the two measures. Secondly, it seems to me that the circular I sent to prosecutors on 9 May on these matters strongly encourages them to resort to alternative measures to prosecution, particularly in the case of a first offence, that there was no position of control and that there had been no serious physical violence. Finally, I would like to remind you that we intend to launch a call for projects to develop centres for the care of violent spouses. This is a concrete measure which is not within the scope of the law, but which is part of the general context. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u218	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u219	I hear these words, which I am delighted to hear. However, in order to combat violence against women, since 2017, the Nancy Public Prosecutor's Office has been organizing, in partnership with the Realise association, compulsory training courses for perpetrators of domestic violence. They were followed by sixty-nine men in 2018 and sixty-three in 2019, 60% of whom did not repeat. I therefore remain convinced that compulsory training is a solution to combat recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u221	I call Mrs Panonacle to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u222	Many complaints of violence within the couple are the subject of alternative measures, including a reminder to the law: it aims to make the perpetrator aware of the violence, which is generally regarded as a primary offender, that he or she has committed an illegal act and that his or her victim has suffered trauma. It's a chance for the one who commits the facts. However, when a victim of violence complains for the first time, this does not necessarily mean that the perpetrator is a primary offender. In almost all cases, the victim has been suffering from them for months or even years. When the first reminder to the law does not put an end to the violence, one can imagine that a second reminder will have no effect, except to delay the prosecution of the prosecutor. With this amendment, I propose that the point of order be made only once. The aim is still here to avoid recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u224	This amendment is much more problematic than the previous one. You wish to exclude the possibility for the Public Prosecutor's Office to send two successive reminders to the law in cases of domestic violence. Your amendment does not provide for any time limit: two reminders could never follow, even at a time of thirty or forty years. I ask that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u226	Same opinion. As I pointed out with regard to the previous amendment, I am not in favour of the law being too rigid in regulating the criminal response that can be provided by prosecutors. Allow me to refer again to the circular of 9 May, which deals with the subjects we are talking about here: I have made it clear that a firm and reactive response is needed for repeated, serious, violent acts or situations of influence. I have distinguished between two situations: on the one hand, the first acts of violence can find an answer in the courses you mentioned, the results of which are extremely positive in terms of recidivism; On the other hand, repeated violence requires a firm and reactive response. In the latter case, the person may be brought before the prosecutor to consider an immediate, delayed or verbal appearance. Once again, this is a criminal policy led by prosecutors; I do not think it necessary to write it black on white and to rigidize it excessively in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u227	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u228	Punishment is, of course, indispensable, but I maintain that prevention and the fight against recidivism are just as important, if not more important. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u229	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u230	I am not entirely convinced by the mechanism proposed by this amendment, but the Minister's speech calls for some reflections on my part. To hear you, it would be too restrictive to include in the law a criminal procedure requiring prosecutors to follow one path rather than another – the subject by finally returning to the criminal policy defined by the custody of seals. I do not share that view. I believe that the Criminal Policy Circular takes too much place in our country: it only makes prosecutors accountable to you, while they also have the task of enforcing the law, voted here, and respecting the spirit of the law. Rebalancing is necessary to ensure greater independence of the prosecutor's office, so that it is less subject to the executive and more to the legislature. That would be in the order of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u231	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u232	This is an opportunity for me to make a reflection that I reserved to Article 9 bis on reminders to the law and, above all, internships. An injunction to take a course of accountability against violence within the couple can be imposed as a penalty, as an alternative to prosecution, such as a measure of criminal composition or appearance on prior recognition of guilt, or as a correctional penalty applicable to natural persons. The Criminal Code is not very clear about internships – of course, it is aimed primarily at magistrates rather than the general public. However, it would be useful to reflect on the definition of probationary sentences in the Criminal Code. We all share the will to combat recidivism and to deploy a pedagogy to prevent violence within the couple, and we would benefit from clarifying the penal code in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u233	It's a draft!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u234	I have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u235	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u236	I am aware of its inaboutious nature, but this is an appeal amendment on which I would like to hear from you, Madam Minister. As Article 5 excludes criminal mediation in cases of violence within the couple, this amendment calls for consideration of the procedure of criminal composition. Recall that this simplified alternative method, which aims to deal with the least serious crimes, was created in 1999, was then expanded and then regulated by the 2019 Law on the Reform of the Justice. We may wish to consider the advisability of excluding offences relating to domestic violence. The Istanbul Convention recommends that there should be no confrontation between the victim of domestic violence and the alleged perpetrator, as this can be painful. It may be necessary to exclude the criminal composition from the outset in such cases, as it puts the perpetrator and the victim in confrontation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u238	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u240	I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. Perhaps we should talk more about your proposal, Mrs Untermaier. However, the criminal composition seems to me to respond, in some cases, to situations of domestic violence. It allows for the adoption of appropriate measures, such as a ban on contacting or appearing. On the other hand, as I have already explained, I do not want us to overrigid the solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u241	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u242	I withdraw my amendment, which I recognize is not successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u243	I have before me two amendments, Nos 45 and 67, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u244	The confrontation of a victim of domestic violence with the alleged perpetrator constitutes an additional test and psychological suffering. If some victims are able to cope with it, others suffer such psychological influence that they retract during the confrontation. The situation could then lead to the abandonment of the prosecution. Therefore, this amendment gives victims the opportunity to refuse confrontation with the alleged perpetrator of the events in police custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u245	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u246	It is the same as Mrs Gayte's, and it is the result of a very important debate that we have had in committee. Since the beginning of the evening, we have discussed a great deal about the grip and the weight that it represents in the various judicial stages, often laborious, that women must go through in a position of danger. The almost physical confrontation, even at a distance, between the perpetrator and his victim, is a moment of terrible cruelty for the latter. The only idea of presenting oneself physically to a violent companion is often a considerable test, including whether the confrontation takes place in the office of a judge, police station or gendarmerie. Psychiatrists and all the doctors who know this issue testify to this. In many cases, the test is such that it leads women to withdraw their complaint, and the procedures do not succeed. Again, the statistics clearly attest to this. Therefore, as we have done for civil mediation and criminal mediation, we must ensure that the victim can refuse confrontation with the perpetrator from the moment of police custody. The prospect of a confrontation, beyond the pain that it may represent for the victim – the law is also there to protect him – may lead to a abandonment of the procedure. That is why our amendment seeks to clarify that the victim can refuse confrontation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u248	This issue was raised at the outset in committee, and we interviewed many of the people interviewed on this subject, including the President of the Court of Pontoise and Edward Durand, a judge at the Bobigny Court, both of whom were extremely committed to violence against women and the protection of victims. Your proposal reflects the ban on the use of mediation in cases of domestic violence. If the perpetrator and the victim are not on an equal footing, it is indeed painful for the victim to experience a confrontation with those who may still hold her under her control and scare her. As I said in committee, however, I believe that confrontation and mediation are two very different approaches. A confrontation meets the needs of an investigation: the magistrate or judicial police officer's mission is to unravel the true of the false in contradictory versions, and confrontation can be a tool to achieve this. The magistrate or judicial police officer is not in the position of arbitrator as in a mediation procedure; He's an investigator looking for the truth. In any event, the victim is already entitled to refuse a confrontation, without the law providing for any harmful consequences against him. As the associations for the protection of women's rights had indicated, the right response was to improve the procedure to avoid over-victimization. The victim must be notified sufficiently in advance of the confrontation to ensure the presence of his or her lawyer. On the other hand, there is no requirement for visual contact between the parts: hangings or removable partitions can play a protective role. Finally, as the members of the committee can testify, I asked those who were interviewed about the systematic confrontation. No lawyer, investigator or magistrate, even those most involved in the case of victims of domestic violence, considered this measure to be positive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u250	I fully understand the concern for the protection of victims who have just tabled their amendments. However, I will request their withdrawal for three reasons. The first was set out by the rapporteur: a confrontation can never be imposed on a victim; She can still refuse it. To the extent that this general rule applies to all confrontations, I do not think it is necessary to remind her specifically about domestic violence. The second observation is that there are already safeguards to limit the risk of trauma among victims. I am thinking of the assistance of a lawyer, of the fact that the victim can be accompanied by any person of his or her choice or that he or she can benefit from a personalized assessment to determine whether he or she needs specific protection measures, etc. Third observation: at the Grenelle against domestic violence, it was said that these guarantees could be supplemented and improved, and that is why my services are currently working on the drafting of a decree that will regulate the conduct of confrontations. This decree will specify, inter alia, that, where a confrontation of the victim with the suspected person is indispensable, the investigators will verify the consent of the victim and ensure that the confrontation takes place in conditions that guarantee the safety and confidence of the victim. He would also indicate under what conditions it was necessary to use the separation arrangements which the rapporteur had mentioned. He will recall that the victim has the right to be assisted by a lawyer or a third party and that he or she may terminate the confrontation at any time. It seems to me, given the precision of the provisions envisaged, that these are not covered by the law, but by a regulatory provision, on which we are working. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u251	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u252	Mr Pradie's amendment has a relatively limited scope, since it concerns only police custody. This means that, in many cases, it is within hours of the commission of the facts. It can be understood that the victim is traumatized. In our view, there is a difference between what is planned today, namely that the victim can refuse a confrontation, and what we propose, namely that the victim has the right to do so. In the first case, she retracts because she is afraid; in the other, it exercises a right: this can strengthen the victim in his position, to the extent that this right is recognized to him by provisions engraved in the marble since inscribed in the law. This is important, especially since this confrontation can be postponed: it can take place later, if an investigating judge is brought before him or if police custody is resumed by letter rogatory. In any event, for the protection of the victim, it would be useful to engrave a new right in the marble, whereas it was previously only a possibility. If we have never seen this kind of scene, we do not know that it exists, but it would avoid the verses of the type: "You know, my little lady, if you do not want a confrontation, it will be your word against her and, in the report that we are going to make to the prosecutor of the Republic, we will tell her: she did not want a confrontation. As soon as she takes the step to lay down a plain and a procedure is opened, perhaps the victim should be preserved from a violent encounter within hours of the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u253	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u254	What Mr Savignat has just said is important. This is a singular moment, that of police custody, which takes place, if all goes well, within the following hours, if not the commission of the facts, at least their report by the victim. It is therefore a moment of extreme fragility for the victims, the one during which they risk recanting, to go back on the commitments they may have made. In fact, all those who are on the issue will tell you: it is within hours of the first act of freeing the violence that the victim is the most fragile. I do not imagine that particular attention could not be paid to the victims at this unique moment in custody. I would add that this debate on the fact that it would not be necessary to clarify certain things because, the law does not speak of them, it would allow them, as we have already had, the keeper of seals, particularly with regard to protection orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u255	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u256	Previously, the law did not indicate that a complaint had to be filed in order to initiate protection order proceedings. However, in a large part of our country's courts, prosecutors demanded that a complaint be filed in order to initiate such proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u257	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u258	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we have included in the law something that should be clarified. We are dealing with a matter which, unlike many others, requires clarification or even rigidification. I stress that police custody is a very special moment, and I do not see what would prevent us from providing additional protection to women, especially since we would not change the law in depth and we would not push the legislative structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u259	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u260	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u261	The question is important. I hear the fears of my colleagues. It is true that the moment of confrontation is often dreaded. However, this is mainly due, in my view, to the conditions under which confrontations are organised. The situation is very different if a lawyer is present, if there is an accompaniment of the victim, if we explain to the victim that devices exist, that it is possible to put on a curtain, to use the video. I would even say that, in these circumstances, a confrontation can be extremely useful, because, in practice, it must be said that one often has a problem related to the lack of evidence: there are not always medical certificates or concordant testimonies. Unfortunately, justice is not always an exact science. However, confrontations are moments when the truth can be brought out, sometimes in a very short period of time. I have been able to verify this in my life as a lawyer: if a confrontation is well conducted, the work is well done, one can succeed in obtaining confessions, to put the perpetrator of the acts in line with his responsibilities. However, I stress the need to guarantee all this, for example by ensuring that assistance by a lawyer, as provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, is effective. I hear your fears, ladies and gentlemen, but I believe that we must overcome them. Again, the victim can refuse confrontation. In general, all this is done on a case-by-case basis, in good intelligence: when police officers or gendarmes realize that a situation is special, they alert the prosecutor and he takes it into account. I therefore believe that, if these amendments are of good intention, it would be inappropriate to adopt them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u262	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u263	As I am not the author of the amendment, I do not feel the right to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u264	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u265	[[Mr. Aurélien Pradie exclaimed]] I would like to look back on Mr Pradie's remarks. He claims that it would not be harmful to add a clarification to the law. And yet! Reaffirming something that is already possible can have consequences – let me explain which ones. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] Today, a confrontation cannot be imposed on a victim. If we include it, in this particular case, in the law, we would risk creating an a contrario situation, i.e. it could be inferred that, in all other cases, it can be imposed on it. Therefore, if these amendments are intended to be commendable, their adoption could have devastating consequences in other procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u266	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u267	I will be brief, because I have already had the opportunity to detail this proposal in committee and also, earlier, in the general discussion. The purpose of this amendment is to establish active cooperation between the emergency services of hospitals or clinics and law enforcement agencies – police, gendarmerie, possibly municipal police. This would make it easier for victims of violence to file complaints, directly within the hospital, in the emergency services. This would also improve the protection of such persons by giving them the opportunity to file their complaints discreetly, without forcing them to go to the police station or the gendarmerie. As I said earlier, only 10% of women who are victims of domestic violence file complaints: it is far too little. When one seeks to understand why this rate is so low, one realizes that victims who leave the hospital without having filed a complaint tend to return home and fall under the influence of the abusive spouse or former spouse. It then becomes difficult for them to go to the police station or gendarmerie, taking the risk of being followed by the violent spouse or being spotted, for example, by a geolocation system installed in their telephones. They are afraid of reprisals, and this discourages them from filing a complaint. What I propose with this amendment is to send a strong message to the victims: by including such a provision in the law, one means that one really wants to take care of them, in a concrete way, and to protect them. In addition, this would encourage municipalities with emergency services to establish such a convention between police and emergency services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u269	I share your ambition, Madame Ménard. The Prime Minister also announced that some 15 departments had taken similar initiatives. However, as I said to you two weeks ago in committee, this cannot be included in the law: these are agreements concluded between the actors, at the initiative of the local authorities. That is why I am asking for your amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u271	I believe that this is not a matter of law, but of a circular and, more precisely, of practice. I have visited many medical and judicial units that receive women victims of such violence, provide them with the necessary care and liaise with judicial authorities, associations or police authorities. Then things are done in an extremely coordinated way. These are extraordinarily effective units, which receive funding from both the local authorities, the regional health agency and the victim service of my ministry. If we want this type of structure to multiply, because it is essential for the first treatment of victims, I do not think it is in the legislative field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u272	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u273	I will not withdraw the amendment because I believe that including this in the law would send a strong signal and encourage local and regional authorities to create such devices more quickly than through a circular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u274	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1128.u275	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law to protect victims of domestic violence. The meeting is adjourned.
