ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law by Mrs Jeanine Dubié and others on various measures of social justice (No 2550, 2629).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u3	"I have been paraplegic for three years now and I do not have the right to the AAH, the allowance for adults with disabilities, because in his small business my husband receives 1500 euros a month. We pay 990 euros of rent for accommodation adapted to my wheelchair. We're paying my daughter 150 euros in the second year of college for her university room. My son is in boarding school for 150 euros a month. And I'm getting zero from the family allowance fund, because my husband's income is overflowing. So, I wish Mr.Macron would stop counting the spouse's income in the AAH: with his calculations, he makes us poor people. » It's Karine who writes this to me – but I could also read Patricia's testimony about her 27-year-old daughter, or the testimonies of Myriam, Nicolas, Stephanie... You must have received the same at your permanence or in your electronic mailbox, Mr. Rapporteur. Seized of this injustice, you decided to remedy it by this bill. You had a dream. You dreamed that one day, under the presidency of Emmanuel Macron, in this assembly of walkers, would be adopted – to use your words – "various measures of social justice". I was going to iron on your naivety. I was going to remind you of the decline in personalized housing subsidies, the freezing of agricultural pensions, the elimination of assisted jobs and, for the rich, the end of the solidarity tax on wealth, flat tax, exit tax, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – in short, a thousand gifts. I was going to mention, of course, the ongoing reform: the "programmed drop in future pensions", as announced by Axa, the shift from a deserved pension to a poverty benefit. I was even going to quote small things in the corners, unnoticed setbacks: take the social funds of the colleges, which are used to pay for clothes, bags, medical consultations, class trips to the poorest children; Well, these social funds are going to fall by half. I was going to conclude that, for me, Macron and social justice belong to the oxymore. I was going to tell you all this – but after all, I thought, it's beautiful, hope. It makes you live, I hear. I chose to share your hope. I want to bet, with you, on a conversion: a social conversion, a conversion of the majority. Of course, our communist colleague Marie-George Buffet had already pleaded the same cause in this rostrum last year. The elected members of the La République en marche had then rejected his bill, alone against all: only against the communists, against the insoumis, against the socialists, against the Republicans; Only against the right and against the left. Whatever, my dear brothers, my dear sisters! We must continue to hope, we must maintain our faith in man. What did the majority say to you in the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr. Rapporteur? That your will is commendable, that we can only agree with the stated objectives, that you ask the right questions, but... There's got to be a "but"! That is what the spokesman for the La République group said: "This bill asks the right questions, but not at the right time". Texto! Not at the right time for whom? Not at the right time for the first concerned? Not at the right time for people with disabilities? Not at the right time for Karine, Myriam, Nicolas, Stephanie? No: not at the right time for the Government, not at the right time for the majority. I continue to quote the spokesman for the La République group on the move: "The measures proposed in the framework of this bill are coming a little early". And why would they arrive early? Because reflections are under way, because "these complex and demanding issues need to be addressed in future major reforms that we will discuss in the next two years". Texto! [[Smile]] Therefore, we should wait: waiting for the adoption of the bill establishing a universal retirement system – that will be fast; waiting for the draft law introducing a universal income for activity, which will be presented next year – for this one, however, the accelerated procedure will not be initiated; wait for the reform on the old age and autonomy... Wait, always wait! Your agenda, Mr rapporteur, and that of this House must be based on the ministerial agenda. The emergency is not social; It is the government emergency that prevails. In this case, the urgency is to wait. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republic on the move, you will be alone again today, no doubt. Only against all: only against the communists, against the insoumis, against the socialists, against – I think – the Republicans; Only against the right and against the left. You will be alone – and that, for agenda reasons! [[Applause on the SOC benches – Mr Aurélien Pradie also applauds]] I am making the same bet as you, rapporteur; The bet that a party will be able to bring us together today: that of humanity. Don't disappoint us, fellow walkers. Do not disappoint the French again. Give them evidence of humanity from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u4	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u5	Today, we not only have the power to vote a law, we have the opportunity to greatly improve the daily lives of thousands of our fellow citizens. All the measures of social justice set out in the draft law of our colleagues in the Freedom and Territory Group appear to be measures of common sense. At a time when Parliament is preparing to debate the draft law establishing a universal pension system, article 5 of the text raises the question of the inclusion of traineeships in the career path. Internships have become an indispensable step in the validation of diplomas and a gateway to the world of work. Their valorisation must be accompanied by recognition of the work done in the professional environment by the trainees, not only in terms of gratuity, but also in terms of the opening of pension rights. Thinking that young people are not interested in their retirement is a mistake; They prove it to us by being numerous in the processions. Increasing from two to ten years the period within which it is possible to validate an internship would allow many active young people to enjoy their rights. In this sense, Article 5 is a major step forward. The improvement of the daily lives of adults with disabilities is also at the centre of the bill, which I welcome. Among all the provisions contained therein, I have already defended one in the Chamber: this is the end of taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. I am pleased that this measure, supported by all the associations concerned, is now being defended by the Freedom and Territory Group. This shows the consensus that surrounds it; More than eighty members from many benches had co-signed my bill, but a motion to reject it had been opposed. Being disabled is not annoyance in a society that is too unsuited to people with disabilities. What does it mean to take into account the spouse's or spouse's income in calculating the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities, other than the dependent status of the disabled spouse? It is in order to guarantee the autonomy of the latter that many couples are obliged not to formalize their common life. How can a society like ours still produce such unworthy situations? When I introduced this bill, I was opposed to the fact that family solidarity should take precedence over national solidarity. Such an argument sends a disastrous signal to people with disabilities. Accepting difference as an integral part of our nation is the foundation of our values; On the other hand, closing and partitioning the disability by referring it back to the family circle is a strong symbolic violence. No longer taking into account the spouse's income in the calculation of the HFA, it is respecting the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities and enabling their emancipation. When the allowance for adults with disabilities was introduced in 1975, it was intended to restore the dignity of persons with disabilities by promoting national solidarity. The spouse's income should never have been taken into account: relying on family solidarity is not the philosophy of this allowance. In the same spirit, the disability compensation benefit – PCH – provides essential support for the material and physical accompaniment of the disability. Raising the maximum age for eligibility for the PCH from 60 to 65 is a legitimate measure in a society where life expectancy increases. Indeed, disability can strike at any time in life. I hope that the adoption of this article will be a first step that will gradually lead to the removal of age barriers. Article 1 also seeks to reduce the remainder of the dependents of the elderly in institutions, by transforming a tax reduction into a tax credit. This is in line with a bill I have just tabled: I hope that, in the context of permanent hospitalization, the spouse's income will adjust and cannot be less than the amount of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, the ASPA. We all know that the end of life is a sensitive and difficult subject. Continuing to live at home is the preferred solution for older people, but this option is not always possible. Hospitals for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – and specialized accommodation offer benefits that many pensioners cannot afford without plunged the family home into an unsustainable financial situation. That is why I strongly support the bill advocated by the Freedom and Territory Group and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the action of Parliament seems to our compatriots, sometimes far from their daily lives. Imagine what would change in it if the provisions of this bill were passed today! That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u6	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u7	Today we are debating a bill on various social justice measures. But what do we mean by the term "social justice"? Often used, this notion is sometimes blurred. Let me give you a definition, on which I hope we will all find ourselves: social justice is a political and moral principle based on two pillars, equality of opportunity and collective solidarity. It also implies collective responsibility, which can be divided into three dimensions. A political dimension, first of all, that is, the fact that different groups can see their ideas debated and represented in a Parliament such as ours; an economic dimension, which consists of redistribution to those who need it; A symbolic dimension, finally, that is, recognition of the fact that one group can claim equal status in society. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie exclaimed]] In this regard, for the past two and a half years, the road map for action by the Government and the majority has been social justice. I will give as proof these few examples: we are acting for young children with the program of duplication of elementary classes, which is beginning to yield excellent results; we enable young adults to choose their orientation better through learning reform; we are mobilizing to reduce inequalities by revaluing the work of the most modest French, with 5 million households eligible for the activity premium, or 1.8 million more since 2018; we focus on the most modest homes, with better access to care and zero remains at the expense of optics, dental care and hearing aids; We have committed an unprecedented tax cut in favour of the French, with the gradual abolition of the housing tax and a 5 billion reduction in income tax for the middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u8	[[Smile]] Easy! Take your breath back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u9	Mr Pradie, I didn't interrupt you earlier. I ask you not to interrupt me either. Let's go back to the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u10	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u11	On behalf of the La République on the move, I welcome the initiative of the Libertés et Territoires Group, and in particular Mrs Jeanine Dubié and the rapporteur, who have been willing to discuss various social justice measures, such as reducing the remaining burden on the housing of older people, individualising and deploring the AAH, granting the PCH to non-active persons aged 60 to 65 and better taking into account internships in the calculation of future retirement pensions. Yes, I said it – and I repeat it: the will is commendable. However, I believe that the proposals put forward by our colleague face three pitfalls. First of all, the measures proposed under the proposed legislation are coming, it is true, in a hasty manner, without any real in-depth evaluation or information on the financing of some of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u12	As with pension reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u13	In addition, some proposals fall within the scope of the Finance Bill or the Social Security Financing Bill. Finally, all the measures proposed are the subject of reflections already initiated by the Government and by the majority in the framework of well-advanced consultations with representatives of local authorities, the social partners, the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities, associations and citizens. These issues are complex and demanding. We want to deal with them more comprehensively in the coming months in the context of major global reforms. The President of the Republic said earlier this week in front of the associations, at the fifth national conference on disability: we must build a nation that is enriched by its differences and make our society more inclusive, fraternal and supportive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u15	However, efficiency cannot be achieved at the expense of coherence. We must draw up laws taking into account the real needs of our fellow citizens, and this cannot be done without prior consultation with all actors to co-build texts that meet the needs of all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u16	"Concertation", "concertation"... Like pension reform? You think we're scumbags!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u17	I therefore invite the rapporteur and all the members of the Freedom and Territory Group to work with the majority on the measures included in the proposed law during the next reforms, so that in the long term, concrete, effective and lasting solutions can be built for French and French people. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, the La République en marche group is against the bill and will vote against all the articles examined – I will have the opportunity to come back to it more precisely in the discussion of each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u18	All right? Are you against everything? You're not even trying to separate the right grain from the tare?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u19	What a beautiful proof of humanity... Now, at least things are clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u20	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Before I get to the heart of the matter, let me say that I am delighted that we can talk about concrete solutions aimed at making the lives of our fellow citizens easier. I would like to thank the Libertés et territoires Group for having tabled this bill, which, if it does not propose new measures, has the merit of putting again on the table questions that will have to be decided in the end, which is not displeased by the majority. How long will it take, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for you finally to have the courage to adopt concrete measures, without ever hiding behind the excuse of the timetable?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT, FI and GDR groups]] In your opinion, there is no need to discuss the EHPADs, because there will be – in the future as far away as it can be – a bill on old age and autonomy. Nor should we talk about disability benefits, because there will be – again in the distant and uncertain future – a bill on universal working income. We are Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and we have been elected by our fellow citizens to take decisions, not to wait wisely for the Government to tell us what we have the right to talk about! [[Smile]] I therefore hope that our fellow Members of the majority will respond for once with substantive arguments to the proposals that are made, because, as far as the timetable is concerned, we have all received, in the last few months, that of the National Assembly, that of the firefighters of our constituencies and even that of La Poste. Let's just get to the bottom. Article 1 of the proposed law is intended to transform into a tax credit the tax reduction for accommodation expenses for older persons in institutions and specialized services. We know that the rest of the dependents in EHPAD is a real problem, which we must tackle urgently. In fact, if the benefits of care are 100% covered and those of the section "dependence" two thirds, the services of the section "accommodation" – hotel, catering, animation – are the responsibility of the households. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DREES – the rest, even if account is taken of the various aids that can be granted, amounts to € 1850 per month. In 75 per cent of cases, it exceeds the current resources of the elderly person. In addition, transforming the tax reduction into a tax credit would help to reach the most modest people who do not pay, or pay little, taxes. In fact, contrary to what happens with the tax reduction, if the tax credit is greater than the amount of the tax, the surplus gives rise to a refund by the Directorate-General for Public Finance, DGFIP. With regard to home retention, the transformation in 2017 of the tax reduction into a tax credit was relatively effective. This is why the Republican Group considers this to be an interesting way to reduce the remaining burden in the EHPADs and supports this measure. Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed law concern disability. The purpose of the text is first of all to remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the payment and capping of the HFA. This measure has long been requested by many associations. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions, particularly during the consideration of previous bills, all of which have been rejected by the majority. I had also drawn the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to this issue in a written question dated May 22, 2018. However, the arguments that have been opposed to us so far have not convinced me. The first was that of the Secretary of State, who had given us a mathematical demonstration in March 2019. Having no talent, I will try to sum it up: the adoption of this measure would have the effect of lowering the applicable ceilings and reducing the amount of the allowance for almost 57,000 households. Nevertheless, Madam Secretary of State, it is the Government that has the keys to rule out such consequences! It is up to you to set the scales according to the law to avoid any losers. In addition, in order to justify the rejection of each of the articles of the bill by the Committee on Social Affairs last week, we were told that the AAH was an income of active solidarity – RSA – improved and adapted to people with disabilities, not a financial compensation for disability; It would therefore not be intended to be individualised. However, the AHR is a temporary aid to facilitate return to work, while the AAH is a financial aid linked to a certain inability to work. So it's not fair to assimilate the AAH to the RSA. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You also argued that the individualisation of this benefit would be tantamount to denying the family situation of the beneficiary and that family solidarity must prevail over national solidarity. You therefore tolerate that, in our country, France, in 2020, people with disabilities are advised not to marry or divorce in order to have a more decent standard of living. We have decided not to have the same company project. The Republicans Group, which considered that bad faith should not be shown on the subject, supported this measure, considering that the Government could ask its administration to work to ensure that there were no holes in the racket, rather than drafting arguments against the solutions proposed today. With regard to the measure relating to raising the age up to which PCH can be requested, this is a matter of common sense for us. Increasing life expectancy must lead us to adjust benefits. Therefore, we also support this measure. Finally, the inclusion of internships in the calculation of retirement seems to us to be a relevant provision, since we are on the side of work and merit. However, we believe that it would have a greater place in the bill establishing a universal pension system, which is currently under discussion in the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether it is dependency, disability or any other issue, our group, since the beginning of the legislature, has always preferred actions to speeches. That is why we will support this text, which has the merit of proposing concrete solutions. [[Same movements]] Last winter, many Frenchmen went to the roundabouts to ask to be able to lead a dignified life by living the fruits of their work. Some have not had the opportunity to demonstrate: they are the most vulnerable. These are the ones that this text speaks of. It is our duty to listen to them and answer them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u24	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u25	The bill we are considering today deals with issues as diverse as they are important. It is thus concerned with the situation of the elderly in institutions, the conditions for the allocation of allowances and benefits to persons with disabilities and the rights of the youngest of our fellow citizens who start their working lives. Article 1 aims to transform the tax reduction for accommodation expenses into a tax credit, limiting it to households with incomes below EUR 42000. If the question of the rest of the dependents of people residing in the EHPADs is a major issue, it must, in our view, be part of a global overhaul of the ecosystem of dependency and housing of people who are losing their autonomy. This will be the case in the context of the future bill announced by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Articles 2 and 3 aim to individualize the allowance for adults with disabilities by removing the inclusion of the spouse's income in its calculation and capping. This is not the first time this issue has been debated in our House. It should be remembered that this allowance is part of the social minima and is part of a logic of solidarity, which is, in fact, differential and familyized. This is the very philosophy of the French social model. The AAH therefore does not respond to a logic of individualised compensation, or financial compensation, contrary to the provision of compensation for disability. Deeply committed to family solidarity, particularly between spouses or cohabitants, our group will not be able to vote in favour of this provision which conflicts with this fundamental principle. Article 4 of the bill is, for its part, entirely relevant and consistent with the bill to improve access to disability compensation, a bill whose rapporteur is our colleague Nathalie Elimas and which was adopted here, unanimously, on 15 January. This text repealed the age limit of 75 years and provided for the possibility of granting a benefit without limitation of duration, with the creation of a right to life. In the continuity of our work, raising the maximum age to benefit from the disability compensation benefit from 60 to at least 65 years is a good measure, which we will support. We welcome the fact that a number of trans-party parliamentary initiatives allow for the renovation and improvement of this absolutely essential service for our citizens with disabilities. The desire, set out in Article 5, to support the first steps of the youngest of our fellow citizens in working life through the internships – which, as we know, are a pivotal step in the construction of the career – is welcome. However, the chosen legislative vehicle does not seem the best at a time when we are discussing pension reform. Would it not be possible to start work on the subject in parallel with work on the establishment of a universal system? [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] In conclusion, the MODEM and related group will support Article 4 of the proposed law, which is making a major step towards improving the contours of disability compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u26	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u27	Promoting social justice in our country is no small matter: it is meeting a strong aspiration of our fellow citizens. For more than a year and a half now, they have been not only reminding us of their commitment to this demand, but above all asking us to achieve it more. This claim was originally expressed every Saturday on the roundabouts; since last December, it is manifested several times a week and emanates from French from all walks of life and from various professions. The desire for social justice is a continuous process and an infinite quest, which has animated our political and social life for more than two centuries. If this is a requirement for all French people, it is above all an emergency for the most fragile of us. That is why I welcome the consideration of this bill on various social justice measures, on the initiative of our colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group. There is no doubt that this text intends to respond to this emergency by proposing to improve the daily lives of persons with disabilities or dependency. Today, the arrangements provided for and the aid granted remain inadequate, as they are not in a position to guarantee decent living conditions for all. The issue of dependency must be given priority. It questions our humanity and the state of our society. What consideration do we give today to our elders in a society in the process of individualization? Do we still give them the consideration they are entitled to expect? We've needed them so much in the past! Today, they need us. It is our turn to consider them with dignity, while life expectancy has continued to grow in recent decades, while healthy life expectancy is beginning to decline. Their declining autonomy and their growing needs make it too often impossible for relatives and families to cope with them. As a result, seniors are increasingly forced to leave their homes and enter EHPAD. While everyone knows the working conditions of health workers, stays are not within the reach of all scholarships. In addition to health problems, there are financial difficulties. It adds misery to distress. Travel expenses are exorbitant since, after payment of the aid, they are still, on average, EUR 1850 per month. As a result, they are well above the resources of one in two residents. This is unacceptable. This bill is intended to respond to this financial and psychological distress, by reducing the remaining dependants of EHPAD clients, by transforming the tax reduction for accommodation expenses into a tax credit, which would benefit everyone, and not just taxpayers paying income tax. That was the meaning of a recommendation I made in my opinion on the 2020 Finance Bill and an amendment by the Socialist and related group to that same bill. The majority then rejected it, arguing that it was not the right time. Is there really a "good time" when there is an emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u29	I am pleased that the Liberties and Territories Group is once again defending this proposal. This is proof that, when a measure is required in the name of solidarity, we know, parliamentarians from all sides, or almost, to work in good intelligence for the common good – in this case, for our elders. This bill is still intended to address the needs and difficulties of persons with disabilities. I also welcome this. The creation of the allowance for disabled adults in 1975 was a first stone marked by the seal of solidarity and social justice. It was a huge step that had been taken. The measure is now insufficient. This is evidenced by a quarter of its beneficiaries living below the poverty line or the average standard of living of persons with disabilities, which is 200 euros a month lower than that of a valid person. The proposed law proposes to review the modalities for calculating and allocating the AAH which lead to this sad observation, by removing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the AAH and in its capping, which will allow the beneficiaries to be fully independent and autonomous. I am thinking in particular of the people who were victims of domestic violence, who were previously dependent on their spouse and who could not get out of the family home. This is therefore not only a justice measure, but also a response to the Government, which, while re-aligning the AAH in 2018 and 2019, has, at the same time, lowered the resource ceiling for couples, bringing out 100,000 beneficiaries of the scheme: a real regression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u31	This is in response to a long-standing demand from associations. We hope that the Government will hear them today. Finally, in line with the recommendations of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, the IGAS, the text proposes to postpone to 65 years, compared with only 60 at present, the age limit of access to the disability compensation benefit: this is a good measure. [[Applause on the SOC, LT, FI and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u32	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u33	At the initiative of the Libertés et Territoires Group, we are now considering a proposal for a law to improve the situation of people who are dependent or disabled. There is no doubt that these are concerns shared by all the benches of this House, and I am pleased that we again have the opportunity to discuss these essential issues. Accordingly, we welcome the consideration of this bill. The proposed measures are part of a broader movement towards more inclusiveness and better addressing the needs of persons with disabilities or ageing. In substance, we share its philosophy. Mr rapporteur, you made it clear in your report that the implementation of the measures contained in the bill does not require further consultation or the introduction of the bill on old age and autonomy. I share your opinion; This is what makes all the wealth of the days of parliamentary initiative: it is obvious that good ideas are not the prerogative of a camp or part of the Chamber. However, I know that you will agree with me on one point: it is necessary to put the bill on the agenda of this chamber for consideration at an early stage. The time for reports and consultations is over; The time has come to legislate, with a view to taking overall responsibility for all the risks associated with addiction. This implies a coherent reflection on financing, a transformation of care models and occupations related to older age, as well as a change in society's view of the latter. One of my criticisms of this bill may be that it is not part of a comprehensive approach and does not benefit from a costed and robust evaluation. I am thinking in particular of the measure proposed in Article 1. Your report indicates that the cost would be zero, as a result of the introduction of a resource ceiling to benefit from it. But during the hearings you conducted, were you able to obtain from the administrations evaluations confirming this hypothesis? The question of the remainder in EHPAD is obviously a fundamental issue, and we share this concern. However, such a measure should have been assessed in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u34	She was!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u35	We also share the concern for justice that leads you to want to eliminate the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities. The AAH differs from the other social minimums and reduces the amount due to the spouse's income is not in the right direction. The IDU, Action and Independent Group has already had the opportunity to express its views on the subject on several occasions and will fully support the proposed measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u37	I also welcome the announcement made on the occasion of the fifth national conference on disability, which took place this week: the AAH will not be integrated into the scope of the future universal income of activity. This was a matter of great concern to the associations and I welcome the Government's attention – and yours in particular, Madam Secretary of State – to this issue. With respect to PCH, we understand the need to postpone the 60-year-old barrier. This is a strong demand from associations. After the removal of the 75-year-old barrier, which we supported in early January, such a measure would be a further step in the right direction. It is a fact that today the cutoff of the 60-year-old age barrier is particularly penalizing: women and men whose disability occurs after that age are not entitled to benefit. In order for this new right not to be purely formal, for lack of dedicated funding, we consider that it must be accompanied by a contract between the State and the departments, reflecting their mutual commitments. We are reserved for Article 5, which extends the time limit for taking into account probationary periods for future retirement. Since the bill establishing a universal pension system is currently being considered in the National Assembly, it would seem more appropriate for such an initiative to be taken in this context. We will therefore support the rapporteur's amendment to delete this article. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mrs Jeanine Dubie and Brigitte Kuster also applaud]] The IUD, Acting and Independent Group is looking constructively at this bill, which has been addressing some of our ongoing concerns since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u38	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u39	Like a phoenix, the idea of social justice reappears today from its ashes: this is what Alain Supiot, lawyer and holder of the chair of law at the Collège de France, affirms. It had been under the carpet for decades, but the yellow vests were able to impose a healthy awareness: that of the decline of a fractured society, which left the popular classes, the farmers, the pensioners, the families – I pass by. It is necessary to be called Nathalie Loiseau in order not to realize that, since 2018, France has been torn by repeated demonstrations. Yes! As surprising as it may seem, the former minister, questioned on 5 February, said he was surprised that a journalist did not know that there was no longer a strike in France. I do not hide my sideration: how is it possible not to breathe in the ambient air the smell of a social ill-being that is far from appeased? So, what to do? Continue to pretend, to avoid, or to take the problems with the body and treat them one after the other, in order to bring concrete answers to the French? I believe that it is in this last state of mind that the bill we are considering today has been drafted. I welcome this effort and deplore it all the more because it was swept away with a backhand in committee. However, the idea of Article 1 to transform the tax reduction for accommodation expenses, which is available to elderly people in EHPADs, into a tax credit, does not seem so bad to me! No one should ignore how difficult it is to make ends meet when you are dependent and at the end of your life. To put it plainly, it is not a small matter to be accommodated in an EHPAD: despite the various public aids, the living expenses, which remain at the expense of the elderly person, are very important. It costs an average of 1,800 euros per month: a difficult sum to gather when you know that the average retirement in France amounts to about 1470 euros gross, and that not all pensioners can rely on their families. I therefore believe it is urgent to find an answer to this problem. I believe that the tax credit proposed in section 1 was in the right direction. Articles 2 and 3, which propose to review the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities and its ceiling, also seem to me to be relevant. With 12 million people affected by disability in France, it would be time to double the obstacles to achieving the Government's own goal of social inclusion. What does Article 2 propose? Simply ignore the spouse's income in calculating the allowance. At present, the autonomy of the beneficiaries is not guaranteed. In committee, we talked about those women who are experiencing domestic violence, but who, because of the indexation of their AAH to their violent husband's income, do not have enough money to leave him – to shelter themselves. Without going that far, is it normal that, at present, a person with a heavy disability, who makes him unfit for work, cannot benefit from the AAH when his spouse receives € 2250 a month? I don't believe it. And to say that does not mean that the valid spouse does not have to bear part of the financial burden inherent in the disability of the other spouse: if the first of the solidarity schemes is obviously to be exercised within the family, society cannot ignore the one who is in a situation of weakness. It is a question of social justice; a question of dignity, too. It is time – more than time – to individualize the benefit of the AAH. I now turn to Article 4, which proposes to raise the maximum age for disability compensation from 60 to at least 65 years, in order to take into account, in particular, the increase in life expectancy. In practice, when a disability occurs after 65 years of age, the person with the disability is no longer entitled to the disability compensation benefit; it can only receive the personalized autonomy allowance. To put it plainly, in France, after 60 years, it is too late to be disabled! In terms of inclusion and national solidarity, admit that we could do better... [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] So yes, definitely, it is more than time to take a step forward towards a little more social justice and a little more dignity for the French with disabilities and the elderly. I will therefore vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u40	The general discussion is closed. Mr Yannick Favennec Becot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u41	As I did earlier, when I presented my report, I would point out for those who hear us, but do not see us, that I am Yannick Favennec Becot, the rapporteur of the bill. Madam Secretary of State, the Government's disability plan is a continuation of the announcements made since the beginning of the quinquennium and extends the measures already taken – which the Libertés et Territoires Group is very pleased to welcome. In your opening remarks, you highlighted the successive revalorisations of the AAH. However, you forgot to report that 25% of the beneficiaries – or 67,000 people – were not able to benefit from it, and 15% of them were only partially revalued, all because the spouse's income is taken into account. As far as the tax credit is concerned, I have taken note of your good intentions, but I want to ask you when this will happen. Important work has already been done on the subject, notably in the context of Dominique Libault's report, whose quality is undisputed. The measure has been proposed on several occasions; it has been gagged; the administration worked on the subject. Why wait longer? With regard to the disability compensation benefit, you have announced that the scheme to finance aid will be extended from next year, in order to cover, in particular, domestic assistance, and also to include the assistance of a third party to a disabled parent so that he or she can take care of his or her young child. This is still a real step forward, which was very much expected. One question remains: by what funding do you intend to make these announcements effective? I thank each of the speakers in the general discussion and I would like to reply to them. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I begin, of course, with the author of the bill: my friend and colleague, Jeanine Dubie. Thank you, dear Jeanine. These provisions illustrate your commitment to issues that simply affect people and that national representation must deal with them quickly and in a concrete way. That is the meaning of the text you drafted on behalf of our group. Mr Ruffin, Karine's example is indeed eloquent. I could have presented similar examples from my constituency in Mayenne, as the measure of individualization of the AAH is expected. Thank you for sharing your hopes with us: for us too, this is "the right time". Thank you too for your support, Mrs Buffet. We know your commitment to removing the spouse's income from the calculation of the HAA and its capping. Last year, in the Chamber, you defended with a great deal of humanity – I would like to say so – this expected measure, with financial autonomy and, above all, dignity. With Mrs. Hammerer, things are getting a little spoiled! Social justice, dear colleague, is also a fair response to the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens, especially those who do not have the chance that we have to be self-sufficient in their lives. You welcome the willingness of our group to discuss these issues; I would have preferred to welcome your willingness to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u43	You see two pitfalls. You say that there has been no evaluation, but it is not true: there has been the consultation of great age and autonomy, which has led to Dominique Libault's report, which no one can contest the seriousness and accuracy of the work; There was also the IGAS report on the evolution of the PCH, which offers very precise encryption. In addition, the reports, the assessments, all this is very nice, but for all those who have been waiting for them for years, perhaps we could come to the concrete actions – which, I repeat, fall within the scope of social justice. Mrs Pires Beaune, I thank you for your support, particularly with regard to section 1, which transforms into a tax credit the tax reduction for the living expenses of persons who are hosted into a specialized institution or service. You have defended this measure of social justice in your capacity as Special Rapporteur of the Finance Bill for 2020. You, too, have acted with great humanity. I know how attached you are to this mechanism, and I thank you for the comments you made. Mr Boucard, thank you too for your support. You're right: we've been elected to legislate and decide. That is the meaning, ladies and gentlemen, of our parliamentary niches; Otherwise, these parliamentary initiatives, which have emerged from the field and respond to the practical and daily difficulties of our fellow citizens, would be of no use. Mrs Essayan, I know your sensitivity to these subjects. I regret, however, that you prefer family solidarity rather than national solidarity. For my part, I believe that both are possible. It is a pity that your support only concerns Article 4 and does not cover all of our social justice measures. I recall that the purpose of the AAH is to compensate for a permanent, sometimes permanent, removal from work; It is therefore not like other social minima. [[Smile]] Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, we too await the bill on old age and autonomy. You are right to point out that the time for reports and evaluations has passed – we have entered the new world, it seems... The figures you are asking for are contained in our colleague Pires Beaune's special report on the finance bill for 2020. Since it was carried out in conjunction with the tax administration, it can be thought to be serious and credible. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and GDR groups]] Finally, thank you, Mrs Ménard, for your support. In particular, you mentioned women dependent on their spouses and victims of domestic violence. This is indeed a subject that we need to talk about. You are right: it is also a question of dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u44	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr rapporteur, I would like to welcome your very constructive view of the place of people with disabilities. As you have repeatedly pointed out, the Government has, from the outset, made disability a five-year priority. It must be noted that mobilization is general. Fourteen ministers took part in the fifth national conference on disability: disability policy is indeed everyone's business, it concerns every public policy mission under ordinary law. This is where the great evolution lies: in the massive investment of society in favour of the place, within it, of people with disabilities. It is a matter of making society accessible to all, of making sure that we finally catch up with our delay in this matter and of allowing the will not only to welcome, but also to give all their place to these people – including those who, as you have rightly pointed out, are sometimes limited in their activities but nevertheless ask us to speed up their integration and their access to a labour market which is still too often closed to them. We are fortunate in France to have a range of solutions. Today, the key word must be the support of people with disabilities. We must advance this support in all areas: at school, as the President of the Republic has said, in the area of training and access to employment, or in order to obtain decent housing. We are faced with a major challenge, that of directing our policies towards this support, in all areas. I hear, of course, your proposals. They bear witness to the possibility that we have of going further, and of doing so together. However, I would like to point out that a massive investment has been made in favour of purchasing power, including, as has been mentioned, an additional financial effort of more than EUR 2 billion for the upgrading of the AAH – but not only. Another effort has been made to provide compensation for disability. This government is the first, since the 2005 law, to reopen this project in areas where we want to recognize the full dignity and citizenship of persons with disabilities, including by allowing them to be parents. You asked me if the increase in this benefit would be financed: yes, it will be, thanks to the assistance of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy, the CNSA, so that the financial weight will be distributed between the departments and the State. The President of the Republic stressed this: this is a State responsibility. I want to reassure you about that. There is a situation, in the field of domestic assistance, which is unbearable: a person entitled to be helped for lunch must wait until his plate is washed by another person, who will spend a few hours later. Here too, the provision of compensation for disability addresses issues of dignity and respect. As I pointed out this morning, we do not forget any disability situation. I thus reopened the file of the psychic disability, entrusting Professor Leguay with a mission relating to the psychic and cognitive handicap, as well as to the learning and neurodevelopment disorders. We need to be able to better assess the needs of our citizens in order to better meet them. There is no doubt that such an approach will question our needs assessment practices, which are essential to providing the right answers. I would like to reaffirm the Government's commitment in this area. I know that we share with all the benches of the House the same will, that of improving the situation of people with disabilities on a daily basis. It was important for me to reaffirm our determination in this area and to recall the considerable challenge of a general mobilization in all areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u46	And in concrete terms, what about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u47	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text. On Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, I have a request from the Libertés et territoires Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u48	I have before me a number of requests for intervention on Article 1. I would remind you that only one speaker per group can speak on an article. First of all, Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u49	I would like to provide further information on section 1. This concerns the conversion into a tax credit of the tax reduction granted to the elderly in institutions – as is the case for those who use home help. It is above all a measure of tax justice: it is not understandable that with equal disability and within the same IRM – an iso-resource group, which measures dependency – people cannot claim the same tax aid. Many questions were raised regarding the cost and financing of this measure. I will refer again to the report by Mr Pires Beaune, who assessed this cost with the tax administration: it would amount to EUR 460 million, for the integration of new beneficiaries, and EUR 217 million, for households already benefiting from the tax reduction. This represents a total of EUR 677 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Of course, money is not multiplying, and that is why we propose, in the interests of budgetary neutrality, to restrict the benefit of the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home to households with a reference tax income of less than EUR 42000, thus saving EUR 710 million. This proves that a solution can be found. The aim is not to reduce an existing right – I would, of course, prefer that everyone can continue to benefit from home help – but, in the constrained budgetary context that we know, and that you regularly recall, such a measure would help to refocus this aid on those who need it most, that is, those who receive modest pensions, from around 1400 to 1500 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u50	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u51	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u52	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u53	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u54	The debates are certainly exciting and passionate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u55	Behind the scenes? They didn't start in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u56	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC and LT groups]] ...but they are also very interesting. The rest in EHPAD is obviously a real problem, but should it be studied today in the context of a bill discussed in a parliamentary niche? Personally, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u57	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u58	Proposals had been considered as part of the Finance Bill for 2020, but they were rejected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u59	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u60	Of course, we share the objective of helping the residents to cope with the remaining burden, which is, for some, unbearable. That is a crucial question, I agree. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, SOC, LT and GDR groups]] We are in the process of co-building the bill on old age and autonomy with the various actors, in particular with the local and regional authorities. We are in talks with departments and associations, without which it is not possible to act. I therefore ask you to trust us – although it is complicated for some of you:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u61	What an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u62	...yes, this issue will be dealt with well in the context of the bill on old age and autonomy. [[Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels]] Ms. Dubie stated that the tax credit was a tax scheme. If that is the case, it must be included, not in the bill before us, but in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u63	You're acting like he's not already been rejected in this context!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u64	In the face of such a challenge, we must be collectively responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u65	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LR, LT and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group]] We think we're dreaming! I would remind you that the measure in question has been the subject of an amendment that we have considered here in the context of the 2020 Finance Bill. Frankly, you're making a fool of yourself! Give us other arguments, but not this one! The amendment was the subject of a public vote in connection with the consideration of the finance bill for 2020; Everyone recognized then that it was a good measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u68	...and you are telling us today that it should not be the subject of a bill but rather be included in the finance bill? That's amazing! [[Applause on the SOC, LR, LT and FI benches]] You are right, it is a tax measure, but you can adopt it today, failing which you would commit a second political mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u69	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u70	As usual, each member of our group will vote in whatever way they want. Personally, on this article, I will abstain. In substance, I fully share the objective: it is absolutely necessary to find ways and means to reduce the remaining burden on families of residents in EHPAD, which is far too high – it even prevents some people from accessing EHPAD. However, I am not sure that the proposed measure is...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u71	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u72	Yes, that is the problem: we are asked to take a decision on this measure. However, I am not sure that it is the best way to reduce the remaining burden sufficiently. Furthermore, if I do not agree with all of Mrs Hammerer's comments, it is true that the departments are important players, important partners, and that we must absolutely co-build with them the measure that is best able to accompany families. Maybe we should have done it before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u73	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u74	[[Ms. Nadia Essayan applauds]] It is urgent to do so – I agree with that – but, I repeat, I am not sure that the measure proposed in this article is the best way to solve the problem. So it is a yes on the substance, but a no on the form; That's why I'll abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u75	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] Mrs Hammerer, this bill is a bill; This is not a sub-proposal of law, on the ground that it is being examined in a niche. It is as respectable as any other text discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u78	[[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT and FI groups. – Mrs. Béatrice Descamps also applauds]] You stressed the need for consultation. Before presenting the bill to abolish the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities, I had consulted and received all the associations concerned. The rapporteur has also engaged in consultation and carried out an impact assessment: he has done serious work. Stop telling us that we have to postpone the decision and hold a dialogue! Do you position yourself on the merits: are you for or against the proposed measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u79	For our part, we are firmly in favour of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u80	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and GDR groups]] I fully agree with what Mr Marie-George Buffet has said, which is quite well-founded. Mrs Hammerer, there are no first and second category bills. There are no first- and second-class MPs here. There is no first and second agenda. All the bills we are considering are of the same value. You cannot, therefore, under pain not only of insulting the opposition, but above all of neutralizing your own mission as a Member of Parliament, consider that you do not have the right to move your little finger without the Government giving you instructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u82	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u83	That is the heart of the matter, what we are touching with the parliamentary niches. Not only do you deny the role of oppositions, but by the same token you are nullifying your own role as parliamentarians, because we are, you and we, housed in the same sign: we make the law. On the other hand, we're here to work on the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u84	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u85	And if you really agree on the substance, it happens that you, like us, have a tool to work on the form: these are the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u86	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u87	You could very well have tabled an amendment to Article 1 in order to correct the form that was wrong with you and thus achieve the final objective that we share. [[Rires on several benches of the LR and SOC groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT and FI groups. – Mrs. Béatrice Descamps also applauds]] What amazes me, colleagues in the Republic on the move, is that you are obviously not learning from your mistakes – although I do not imagine that one of you has them in mind. You're not learning anything! You're showing it again today. I suspect, however, that you are a few who are not so comfortable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u88	Mr Vigier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u89	I am speaking in response to a point of order, because my colleague Jeanine Dubie has already spoken on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group. The Standing Orders of the National Assembly provide for the discussion of bills and bills. As Aurélien Pradié said very well, you do not, ladies and gentlemen, have to judge the opportunity of the work of other parliamentarians: it is a matter of respect between us and towards those who trusted us and sent us to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u90	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and LR groups. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] On the other hand, don't hide behind your little finger: it was because you were in the minority earlier that you asked for a session suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u92	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u93	I will remind you at midnight, if we sit again, and I will ask the presiding officer to give us back the minutes we have just lost because you were not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vigier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC and GDR groups]] If the incident last week wasn't enough for you, do it again! It will then be a double mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u96	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u97	We heard different arguments: there would be no impact assessment, the evaluation would be incomplete... But next Monday, we will begin consideration of the bill establishing a universal pension system, while Members of Parliament – including members of the majority – are asking for information on the financial side, considering the impact assessment to be clearly insufficient. Therefore, the arguments put forward do not appear to be well founded. You could have amended this bill, instead of asking us to wait! I say this to the attention of the Members of the European Parliament who have joined the House during the debate: the five Members of your group who were present on these benches before the suspension have heard the various speakers tell you to be careful not to find yourself alone in the face of the right and the left, as was the case with the examination of Marie-George Buffet's bill or the proposal to introduce a bereavement leave of 12 consecutive days for the death of a minor child. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] You will decide on things that concern hundreds of thousands of people: do it in your soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u98	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u99	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, SOC, LT and GDR groups]] I just want to repeat the position of MODEM. Taking care of accommodation costs is a very important issue, as we all know. It is not because we would not be sensitive to it that we will not vote in favour of this article, but because we know that it will be reviewed in the more global context of dependence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u100	It's always the same song!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u101	One doesn't stop the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u102	It is very important that it be considered in this context because it will allow us to have all the elements of context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u103	That's not very convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u104	That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u105	We don't do anything anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u106	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to point out that, in the context of statements on an article, we are required to hear only one speaker per group. Let us therefore remain within the framework of our Rules of Procedure and that those who are frustrated with this will excuse me. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u107	I would like to make a few clarifications on article 1. It is imperative that the issue it addresses be addressed within the overall framework of the draft law on age and autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u108	He's pushed back to the Greek calends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u109	Why? [[Exclaims on LT banks]] Because some aspects still need to be deepened: how can we ensure complete simplification for the citizens concerned? Should we put in place a contemporary tax credit, without any time lag? How can this tax credit be linked with existing aid? What would be the losers of the introduction of a tax credit with a reduced ceiling? Because this issue cannot be disconnected from the more general EHPAD tariff, from the social assistance empowerment system. Dealing with the rest of the burden means acting both on supply, thus on EHPAD tariffs, and on demand. Because this issue simply cannot be disconnected from the major arbitrations relating to governance of the future risk of age-related loss of autonomy. To whom should the burden of this new aid to households come back in the system of tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u110	It's like Mrs. Penicaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u111	All these issues need to be addressed as a whole. That is why they will really be dealt with within the framework of the bill on the old age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u112	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u113	In the summer of 2020,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u114	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u115	...as the Minister and the Prime Minister have committed themselves to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u116	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u117	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 29 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u118	Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u119	There are states of soul!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u120	Perseverare diabolicum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u121	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u122	We are dealing with the issue of the allowance for adults with disabilities, and this article seeks to put an end to the inclusion of the spouse's or spouse's income in the calculation of the amount of the allowance and the increase in the ceiling. I stress that this issue has already given rise to hearings on a number of occasions, since we have had a number of meetings to deal with it and we have already discussed it in this House. Studies have been carried out and consultation has taken place. Secondly, there is an urgent need to answer this question for a wide range of people who are now in a situation of dependency on their spouse or spouse, with the risks that this entails when the spouse or spouse is violent. Finally, it is a measure of dignity, a right, the right of persons with disabilities to autonomy. This can of course be ensured by entry into the world of work, but it is still dependent on the existence of resources specific to the disabled person. This Article 2 has therefore already been worked on many times and it has been done again by our rapporteur: we are ready today to adopt this measure of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u123	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u124	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u125	I would like to explain again our vision of things, because it is not because it is different from yours...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u126	And that of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u127	That remains to be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u128	...that she's not respectable. We recall once again that this allowance is part of the social minima,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u129	No! It's a self-sufficiency service!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u130	... that is to say, it is a guarantee of resources – I say this not only to you, ladies and gentlemen, but to all the citizens who look at us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u131	Don't lie to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u132	The allowance for adults with disabilities can be combined with other resources and the ceiling is increased depending on the family situation. The AAH has been upgraded to 900 euros. It affects more than 1 million people. It is legitimately linked with family solidarity – it is our vision of things. It is not intended to compensate for disability, as this is the responsibility of the disability compensation benefit. [[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Never has a government done so much in favour of disability policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u133	How dare you say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u134	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u135	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u136	These are 3 billion euros since the beginning of the quinquennium and many concrete measures – and I say so as a former caregiver. Last Tuesday, at the fifth national conference on disability, the President of the Republic recalled the two and a half years of action in favour of the power to act of persons with disabilities, the recognition of the commitment of family caregivers and the evolution of our society's view on disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u137	What a lack of humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u138	He also announced twelve new commitments to allow each person with a disability to choose his or her life. There are many challenges: to succeed in inclusive schools, to improve access to skills and employment, to take disability into account in the universal pension system and, above all, to continue to structure support, with collectively constructed solutions, to ensure that no family is left without a solution and to give all the means of autonomy to anyone with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u139	And in practice, what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u140	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] All mobilized!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u141	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u142	There are theoreticians of social justice, or even of politics with capitals, and then there are the practitioners. Theoreticians stack words, slogans, language elements, they organize great conferences. We should rather be practitioners of politics and social justice. We cannot, as you do, stack words and slogans that, when they do not translate into deeds, remain hollow. It is absolutely unbearable, not only for us, but especially for our fellow citizens, to hear you claim slogans with your mouth at heart and to see you, when it comes to taking action, smashing you into reality. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] Marie-George Buffet said exactly what it was. These are not social minima. You make a masterful mistake: the AAH has nothing to do with the RSA. Disability is a fatality of life, and a fatality of life cannot be compensated by social minima. You are right to say that our visions of society diverge radically: you consider – as you have just said – that these people only have to deal with the so-called family solidarity that does not always exist; We, together, consider that it is the honour of the Republic to compensate for the fatality of life that disability is. We have a profoundly different vision from what society is, and more broadly from what politics is. That is why no one will understand that, forty-eight hours after having held a major national conference, after stacking up a thousand slogans on this subject, you are informed to move to action by adopting a measure which, on the substance, makes consensus. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] It will cost you politically, because it hurts democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u143	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LR and LT groups]] It must be recognized that much has been done in recent months and a few years for persons with disabilities. You have one more thing to do, and you have the opportunity to do so by adopting this article. That is why, for our part, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u145	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u146	This is the heart of the bill: to enable the disabled person to have access to income autonomy that is not linked to that of his or her spouse. To the Members, especially walkers, who have arrived in the Chamber during the debate, I read Karine's testimony again: "I have been paraplegic for three years now and I am not entitled to the AAH, because, in his small business, my husband receives 1500 euros a month. We pay 990 euros of rent for accommodation adapted to my wheelchair. We're paying my daughter 150 euros in the second year of college for her university room. My son is in boarding school for 150 euros a month. And I'm getting zero from the family allowance fund, because my husband's income is overflowing. So, I wish Mr.Macron would stop counting the spouse's income in the AAH: with his calculations, he makes us poor people. » We have received a lot of such testimonies, in our permanences, in our electronic mailboxes, on our Facebook pages. "This is not the right time," we are told, on the pretext that this is not yet on the ministerial agenda. But Karine and the others don't have to wait! We are told that it comes in a rush, but a year ago Marie-George Buffet defended the same bill: you still had time to work on it, without even having to speed up the movement as you do for pension reform, and come back with something, without us having to wait for a new bill. We are told that the AAH is one of the social minima. No! We do not agree with this view. This is an autonomous allowance which aims to enable the disabled person not to be dependent on his or her spouse. I warn you again: you will be alone in this Chamber – you have heard the IDU group, you have heard the communists, you have heard the right; The terrible thing is that you're going to be alone in the country. You are widening the gap between the legal country, which is here, and the real country, which is outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] On the contrary, Mr Pradie, I think that we are practitioners and pragmatics. Stop saying we haven't done anything since the beginning of the quinquennium! We are the first government to have substantially improved the allowance for adults with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u149	In that case, why not continue on your momentum?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u150	We'd still have to get the meters back on track! Under the draft finance law, EUR 2 billion was transferred to people with disabilities. We have had pragmatic measures adopted, such as the right to vote for the protected majors; The associations had been waiting for him for thirty years and we had him adopted! The same applies to the right to life or the tax and social exemption from the compensation of the family caregiver.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u151	Well! Go on! Have this measure voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u152	Mr. Pradieu, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u153	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So, accusing us after that of being "out of the ground" and having done nothing, Mr. Pradieu, it is unbearable! You're the one who's always doing politics, not us! The extension of the PCH to parental support amounts to EUR 900 million. In total, 2.6 billion euros are spent on inclusive school, Mr Pradieu, and 240 million euros on support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u154	Answer the AAH!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u155	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] Here's what I'm proposing: I pledge to all of you in this House to present a very detailed report on the losers and winners by June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u156	There's already been a lot of reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u157	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u158	Mrs Buffet, you know this for working on this question: a person with a disability who benefits from the AAH and works while his spouse does not work – it is often forgotten that this can be the person with a disability who ensures the income of the home – is also protected by familyization. I therefore propose that we object together,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u159	It's already objectified!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u160	... with you, Madame Buffet, with the majority, with MODEM, with the group IUD-Agir, with the group Libertés et territoires, with the group Les Républicains if he wishes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u161	It's to sleep everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u162	...we objected together, I said, to the benefits of marriage for all persons with disabilities. Let us not forget that some persons with disabilities are the only ones in the couple who have an income.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u163	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u164	We must also work for them, as for all people with disabilities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is my proposal, if you will consider it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u165	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u166	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 35 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u167	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the minimum of respect to listen to the speaker who speaks! I'd appreciate it if you could show it on a subject like the one we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u168	The rules governing the AAH are derogating from the common law for other social minimums, including the ceiling – Article 3 concerns deflation. They are therefore in favour. The working income of the spouse, partner or partner of PACS – a civil solidarity pact – of a disabled person is specifically reduced by 20%, in addition to the 10% tax reduction on all other income. These reductions allow account to be taken of each person's activity. For couples, the resource ceiling is also set at €1629 per month. In concrete terms, this means that of the spouse's business income of 100 euros, only 80 euros are included in the calculation of the AAH. The existing ceilings make it possible to target beneficiaries more effectively and thus to combat poverty suffered by persons with disabilities. In this system, 90% of recipients receive the AAH at a full rate, and 60% of couples have benefited from the AAH's upgrading to 900 euros. The associations welcomed the clarification given by the President of the Republic at the national conference on disability last Tuesday: the AAH will not be integrated into the future universal income of activity. However, associations will be asked, since some persons with disabilities do not benefit from this allowance but have an appropriate and partial activity – they will therefore be affected. Thus, much remains to be done to improve the daily lives of persons with disabilities in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u169	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u170	A few months ago, you changed the level of the AAH, Madam Secretary of State. However, the ceiling remained unchanged. As our colleague Marie-George Buffet pointed out earlier – sorry to quote you again, Mrs Buffet, but I am still happy to do – more than 25% of those who should have benefited from the actual increase in the AAH did not perceive it, because the level of capping has not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u172	Deploring is therefore a major issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u174	We do not need an impact assessment or an in-depth analysis to understand the situation I am exposing. It seems natural that the increase of some tens of euros in the AAH leads to a deplorable situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] On the other hand, Madam Secretary of State, we are not doing a contest of the greatest number of announcements here. As you are aware of the challenges of disability, you certainly understand that no one here, not even your government, is up to the major law of 2005. Therefore, I urge you to show humility, and not to consider that your government has accomplished what none of us had done in the past. Let us recognize that in the Republic there are laws whose implementation is far beyond our reach. That is true of the law of 2005, and this situation concerns you just as much as we do. Despite all your efforts, I am sorry to tell you that you are still far from applying this great law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u175	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u176	I would like to know the Secretary of State's answer to a specific question: is the AAH, as a member of the La République en marche group has just said, one of the social minima rather than an autonomy allowance? I would like the matter to be decided. Article 2 has been voted against the will of the Republic on the move, because some of you, hesitant, have allowed their finger to float or have preferred to leave the Chamber. Dear fellow walkers, the challenge is simple: it is a matter of ensuring that tens of thousands of people with disabilities are no longer dependent on their spouse's income; their HFA is not removed when their spouse returns to work; that they may separate themselves from them; In short, to allow them no longer to be dependent on their spouse. That's what Articles 2 and 3 are all about! Here you have the opportunity to show humanity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u177	All right, stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u178	... the possibility of joining the common camp of this assembly, rather than being "in spite of us" – because this article may be voted in spite of you! You will have hesitated, but join the camp, which I hope will be the majority! Join us voluntarily, rather than cut you off in abstention or absence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u179	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u180	It is intended to clarify the provisions of Article 3 in order to ensure that the increase in the income ceiling for beneficiaries with dependent children is maintained. Since the initial wording of the article is somewhat ambiguous in this respect, it seems to me important to secure the mechanism of individualisation of the AAH vis-à-vis the spouse – a mechanism which does not in any way aim to penalise persons with disabilities with children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u182	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, I reiterate my proposal to carry out a joint effort to target these concerns which concern a wide range of situations. The purpose of this amendment is to maintain the 50 per cent increase per dependent child. This increase is fully justified, and there is no question of calling it into question. If I therefore share your concern, I cannot give a favourable opinion to your amendment which has the effect of depriving those who need it most – knowing that the allowance is already almost individualised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u183	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u184	Madam Secretary of State, you did not reply: do you consider the allowance for adults with disabilities as a guarantee of autonomy for persons or as part of the social minimums? The association APF France handicap insists that the allowance for adults with disabilities is awarded on the basis of medical criteria, and that its granting depends on the recognition of a lasting and substantial disability of the beneficiary, who creates a disability. Clearly, it is not because a person with a disability becomes a couple, or because his or her spouse's income increases, that his or her disability disappears! The disability-related allowance, which allows the disabled person to enjoy a certain degree of financial autonomy, does not have to disappear when he or she joins a couple!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u185	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u186	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u187	[[Mrs Véronique Hammerer applauds]] I thank Mr Ruffin and Mr Pradié for the lessons of humanity they give us again in this House, but we have no lessons to learn from you, Mr Ruffin, or from you, Mr Pradié!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u188	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u189	It was useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u190	Be aware that the situation of persons with disabilities is at the heart of our concerns, both those of our group and those of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u191	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u192	The efforts made since the beginning of the legislature towards persons with disabilities – particularly in favour of the schooling of children – are completely new. Keep your lessons to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u193	It's grated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u194	[[Protests on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] The difference between us and you, gentlemen, is that we take the French seriously. Being in opposition, you play your part and make people with disabilities and associations believe that everyone can shave for free! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] On the contrary, our group is bound to a requirement of seriousness;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u195	A requirement of obedience, yes! Godillots!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u196	...we have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u197	That's the big deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u198	[[Protests on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Everyone here knows that the budget commitments we have made and those we are about to make by the end of the year as part of the finance bill are unprecedented. I repeat, there's only one difference between you and us: you let it be that everyone can shave for free. For our part, I repeat, we have to deliver on absolutely new commitments. Enough of this demagogy; No one's fooled!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u199	You are really the best to give lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u200	Mr President, I ask for the floor: I have been personally questioned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u201	No, no: Madam Secretary of State will take the floor, after which we will proceed to the vote on the amendment and then on the rule. You have the floor, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u202	Mr Ruffin, stop playing with words. The allowance for adults with disabilities has been increased to 900 euros. We have also upgraded the disability compensation benefit. We therefore take special situations into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u203	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u204	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mrs Véronique Hammerer applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Don't make it seem that you're very interested in disability: in reality, you see a media object that allows you to get started! We've already had weapons passes about it, and you've bragged about it in the media, from your kitchen. You choose very "pathos" subjects, and you get whistled! I would not want such an important theme to be turned into derision. Disability is the priority of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u205	You don't have a monopoly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u206	Yes, but Mr. Ruffin doesn't. And what he does serves all those who sit in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u207	What is this trial?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u208	I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 38 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u210	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u211	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u212	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u213	I give the floor first to Mrs Hammerer; We will then come to the point of order. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u214	Concertation will be at the heart of our discussions, particularly in the context of the future bill on old age and autonomy; we commit ourselves to lead it and we will. With regard to the disability compensation benefit, I fully agree to make it effective between the ages of 60 and 65 for non-active persons. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] But, once again, it needs to be discussed in a much more comprehensive way. Is this the right time today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u215	Who can do the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u216	We are in full consultation on the future law on old age and autonomy. You all know very well how a legislative text is built:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u217	Yeah, we know...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u218	[[Same movements]] ...we can't do this without the partners. I have never worked this way, applying what has been decreed. However, the topic of the PCH will again be addressed in the context of this future law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u219	Just like the retreats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u220	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u221	[["Oh! » on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Several changes will be made to the PCH in 2020. In the second half of the year, the creation of a right to life for PCH beneficiaries whose disability is unlikely to change favourably. In the first semester, the possibility to apply for PCH at any age, provided that the disability occurred before the age of 60. We have extended this possibility by breaking the 75-year-old barrier. No one had done it before; We did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u222	A little dignity, let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u223	In January 2020, finally, the defiscalisation and the total exemption of social contributions for the compensation of the caregiver attached to the PCH, plus the possibility of combining PCH and RSA. We have taken all these steps;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u224	You are not the only ones who have acted in this direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u225	...they exist. We have honoured our contract, even though there are still things to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u226	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u227	[[Mr. Jean-Jacques Bridey applauds]] I repeat, we must wait for the future law on old age and autonomy. It will be a great moment that will bring us all together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u228	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor for a point of order – on the basis of which rule, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u229	On the basis of Rule 61, Mr. Chairman. Without calling into question anyone or anything, I would like to make a point: we have just proceeded suddenly to two votes, the second of which, electronic, gave the article a majority of votes. Just before, the vote on the amendment, by show of hands, had led many of us to suspect that this majority was already acquired. But in your authority, Mr. President, you thought it was missing. [[MM. Marc Le Fur and Patrick Hetzel applaud]] We therefore observe, on the same subject, two voting results which are not the same. Therefore, I have serious doubts about the vote on the amendment, since there have been no movements of exit or entry into the House. When we vote by show of hands, it is important that the vote count is not expeditious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u230	[[Mr Patrick Hetzel protested]] Mr Pradié, the counting of this vote by show of hands was not expeditious. I am very clear on this point. You can think whatever you want, no matter what; But I am telling you that the result of the vote this time was obvious. Otherwise, I would have asked for a new vote by sitting and lifted, as I do when I have any doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u231	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u232	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] A moment ago, one of our colleagues expressed his anger and immediately eclipsed himself, probably considering that the House is being used to pour its remorse on the oppositions before leaving!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u233	You're doing the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u234	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No, for I, my dear colleague, remain; I've been here all along. You, you came to the whistle of the session suspension. I don't think I have any lessons to learn from those who only landed to build up the ranks at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u236	Let no one here think of giving lessons of humanity! The reality is that of your choices, of your votes. You were beaten twice, even though you committed a major political mistake a few days ago. The President of the Republic gathered fourteen ministers at the Elysée – as you said, Madam Secretary of State – only 48 hours ago and you are not screwed to realize that your vote is a major mistake! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's why we're telling you. We teach you the lesson to make you progress! And the best way to do that is to fight at the next vote. The two votes in which you were defeated, in which the deputies voted against the Government's opinion, against the opinion of the majority group, helped you to make progress. You should be grateful for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u237	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u238	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u239	Article 4 deals with a subject that has been of concern to us for a very long time, at least to the people concerned. The Act of 11 February 2005 provided for the removal of the 60-year barrier within five years. Fifteen years later, nothing was done; The decree that was to be issued never appeared. Madam Secretary of State, you said that we would finally have a report in June. I could have asked for the total removal of the age barrier: perhaps your report will shed some light on this. In the meantime, I propose a step, and the idea does not come out of anywhere: it is the report produced in 2016 by IGAS that recommends that the minimum reference age for access to the PCH be raised from 60 to 65 years. Since 2016, this measure has remained in the departmental pipeline. Our bill was tabled in December 2019: if it had interested you as much as it should have, perhaps you could have tabled amendments, which was not the case. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Bastien Lachaud also applauds]] We missed the check when we examined Nathalie Elimas' bill. We have dealt with the subject of the 75-year-old barrier, I take note of it, but we have left aside the second part, the one which would have consisted of raising the reference age from 60 to 65 years. Now we can remedy this, and that will not prevent your report in June from allowing us to know whether there is a way to go further, to permanently remove this barrier, which would be a real step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u240	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u241	That is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. Madam Secretary of State, Member of Parliament Lang, at no time did I...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u242	This is not article 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u243	[[Mrs Anne-Christine Lang and Olivia Gregoire laugh]] This is a personal fact! For my part, at no time did I engage in a personal challenge. The debate remained a debate of principles and values: is the AAH considered to be an allocation of autonomy or one of the social minima? That's what this is about, not who advertises it. What does the Association des paralysées de France say?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u244	Please, Mr. Ruffin! A point of order is a point of order; It does not allow the debate to come back to its substance. Either I breached the Rules of Procedure by failing to comply with the Rules of Procedure, which justifies a point of order; or you want to exchange, go back to the debate, in which case you can ask to register on Article 4 – for which your group does not yet have a registration. But let's be strict!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u245	Mr President, I have the right to wait for you to intervene when a Member is personally questioned in the Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u246	And by a member of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u247	...and say that this is not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u248	So don't go back to the bottom of the debate, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u249	Yes, I do! Of course I do! My arguments...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u250	We are not going to start a dialogue, nor are we going to start a part of verbal ping-pong. I only ask you to follow scrupulously the procedure on points of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u251	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u252	The IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote in favour of this article. Ms. Dubié said that the Act of 2005 already provided for the raising of the 60-year-old barrier. That has not been done. The 2016 IGAS report is also very clear about this. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the SOC group. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] I understand, Madam Secretary of State, that you wish to wait for the report to be issued in June. But perhaps the time has come to send a signal by moving this 60- to 65-year-old barrier, and perhaps your report will conclude that it is no longer relevant at all. At present, it is a profound injustice. Let's make a signal to the associations that are asking for it to be abolished!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u253	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u254	In June 2018, at the Congress of French Mutuality, the President of the Republic committed to the adoption of a law on the financing of dependency before the end of 2019. In June 2019, this time, the Prime Minister said in his policy speech: "The Minister of Solidarity and Health will present at the end of the year a bill that will define a strategy and the programming of the means necessary to take charge of dependency. » [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] We have been waiting for this announced addiction law for a very long time, a very long time, well over two years. But in 2018 and 2019, commitments were made. Today we had an opportunity to move forward: we lost it. We lost it about the rest of the burden for modest people, when we could redress an injustice and take further action on this future dependency law that we are still waiting for, which we may see. In the meantime, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u255	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u256	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of Article 4. We are not dealing with a new question, which came out forty-eight hours ago from the head of I do not know who. Work and studies have been carried out: those of IGAS, which in 2016 recommended pushing the age barrier; the rapporteur for the examination of this text. We can therefore make an informed decision. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] I would like to add, Madam Secretary of State, that the debate raised by Mr Ruffin on the question of whether the AAH is an autonomous allowance or one of the social minima does not play on the words: these are two possible conceptions of this allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u257	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u258	The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of Article 4. We would have liked the removal of the age limit outright, but we will be content with this first step in the right direction – more rights for all. It has been almost 15 years since there were studies on this age limit and we know that it must be removed, or at least raised. We must therefore stop telling ourselves that the time is wrong. We are the national representation; We must shoulder our responsibilities, and each and every one of us in this House will do so individually in the vote. I would also like to go back to the distinction between autonomy allowances and one of the social minima. Madam Secretary of State, we need an answer: what is your view of disability? Is this allowance a mercy or just compensation for the disability suffered by the person concerned, the burden of which is also borne by the society in which we live? If it were designed differently, in many cases, disability would no longer be one. So, Madam Secretary of State, an autonomy allowance or one of the social minima? Tell us what you think, what the Government thinks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u259	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u260	In reply to Mrs Dubie, as well as Mrs Buffet, many things have already been assessed; We have reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u261	And you think the rapporteur didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u262	I would, however, like us to be able to consult with the departments, which are the leaders of solidarity policies. That is how we have worked for two and a half years, which has led us to a trust agreement with the departments to improve the daily lives of disabled people, and in particular the functioning of the departmental houses of disabled people, but not only.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u263	Dilating measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u264	It is not only the Government that can carry out consultations, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u265	Each service corresponds to a slightly different skill and financer. We need to work on this aspect, as well as on the edge effects of the distribution between APA and PCH. I say to you once again: in order to establish all responsibilities, let us build this report together, in relation to the departments. This will enable us, by June 30, to clarify considerably the respective effects of ABS and PCH in order to be able to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u266	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u267	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 40 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u268	Here, Mr. Gendre is missing! Maybe he's already being reframed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u269	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 3, which seeks to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u270	The abolition of Article 5 – on the validation of traineeships in the framework of old-age insurance – makes it possible to maintain its consistency with the proposed law, the main aim of which is to improve the autonomy, dignity and care of dependent elderly persons and persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u272	Mr rapporteur, I share your wish to improve the inclusion of traineeships in the calculation of pension entitlements. The Government was attentive, and the Secretary of State for Pensions was considering ways of extending the time limit and the rate applicable to the redemption of probationary periods; He will introduce an amendment to that effect to the bill that he is about to defend before you. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u273	On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u274	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u275	In my speech in general discussion, I invited all of us to take over the agenda of our Assembly and to stop letting the Government tell us what we have the right to speak about and when. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] Today, our Assembly has fully regained its legislative role. During the discussion of the bill, it voted on the articles which will finally eliminate the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities. We also voted on an important article on disability compensation. In front of their television or computer screens, many people with disabilities, many members of associations will have regained the hope that these legitimate demands will finally be heard. Now we have to transform the test by voting on the bill not to disappoint them as in 2019, when considering Mrs Buffet's bill. We still have to vote on this bill so that, never again in our country, in 2020, we do not advise a person with a disability not to marry or divorce. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] Don't be disappointed, Madam Secretary of State, because the adoption of this text will not mark the victory of the oppositions, of the Freedom and Territory Group or even of the rapporteur: it will be the victory of people with disabilities, of our Assembly, of the Republic! [[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, you may be disappointed that you were beaten after some votes; But tonight, when you return home, you can be proud of the progress that Members have made today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u276	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u277	I would like to thank all the Members who voted on the articles of the bill. The subjects we are talking about do not date from this legislature, they have been raised during the previous one; Today, however, we have made great progress possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC, UDI-Agir, FI and GDR groups]] Madam Secretary of State, I repeat: Mr Ruffin, Mrs Buffet, Mr Pradie are right. The AAH is not to be counted among the social minima; The decision of the President of the Republic to exclude him from the universal income of activity attests to this. The AAH guarantees a resource for people who are unable to engage in a professional activity – which is, moreover, one of its conditions of allocation. Moreover, on the CLEISS website, the Centre for European and International Social Security Links, which is part of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the AAH is classified as family benefits. [[Same movements]] Today we have acted in line with the President of the Republic's statement by excluding the spouse's resources from the calculation of the allowance. We have worked well and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u278	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u279	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] As we prepare to vote, something very disturbing is happening. We deal with key issues. It is true that the allowance for adults with disabilities must be regarded as a special allowance and a thorough consideration must be given to this, as well as to the other measures in this text. A priori, these are only good measures, but you forget that we will soon be looking at a much larger, addiction-related bill that will allow us to work on it. Let me say something! By doing things in small pieces, like today, do we really show awareness of all the stakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u280	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u281	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, it would be easier to vote everything and thus place us in the camp of good people, good people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u282	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u283	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u284	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] But I think it is necessary to reflect on the subject in the best possible conditions in order to consider it in its entirety and to take into account all the consequences that would result from the measures envisaged. You're shouting loudly, but the governments you've supported haven't done much in the last 20 years! Today, the will to act is there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u285	Always the same thing! The world existed before you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u286	The measures you propose are good,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u287	Then vote them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u288	[[Same movements]] ... but they would be more in their place in a vast bill on addiction. They would be better built and thought, and we would then vote for them much more willingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u289	Amateurs' explanations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u290	Whether we vote for, against or abstain, the result will not be satisfactory for anyone, especially for people with disabilities. The MODEM Group will not give any voting instructions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u291	I hope you don't need voting instructions to determine yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u292	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u293	I would like to tell you my pride – I hope our common pride – in contributing to a breakthrough in the service of the autonomy of people with disabilities. I remember the first time I took part in a debate on this: it was last year when Mrs Buffet's bill was being considered. The whole of the Assembly supported the exception of the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u294	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u295	Now, don't be bad losers. Be, on the contrary, good winners, with Karine, Christian or Serge, whom I mentioned during the debate. They are the real winners, not the Libertés et territoires group, La France insoumise or Les Républicains. Do not destroy, by this last vote, all those that have taken place before, in each article. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Above all, rather than being isolated from the rest of Parliament and the rest of France, you could join the country. Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u296	A little humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u297	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u298	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u299	But the vote is announced!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u300	The vote has been announced, you cannot accept, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u301	The manoeuvring is grotesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, the suspensions of sittings are ex officio except when the vote is launched, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u303	But it's announced!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u304	The suspension is granted...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u305	Then for a minute, no more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u306	[[Same movements]] ...for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u307	We're in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u308	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u309	I ask for the floor for a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u310	Shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u311	[[Several Members of the LR, SOC and LT groups show the screen, as Marc Le Fur photographes]] The vote was announced! He's still on the screen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u312	I will give you the floor at the resumed sitting, Mrs Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u313	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u314	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u315	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u316	It is based on the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Regulation. As group chair, I sign with a ballpoint pen or felt the pink leaf by which I delegate my power. But the pink leaf of our colleague Véronique Hammerer bears an electronic signature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u317	We'll give him a pen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u318	[[Applause on the SOC, LT and LR benches]] Mr President, I would like you to remind us that the pink leaves must be signed by the President, not by electronic means. This is what is required of the other seven group presidents – Presidents Mélenchon and Vigier will be able to confirm it. We take the trouble of signing the pink leaves in a handwritten way. Why would it be different for the majority group?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u319	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u320	My intention was to question you about what just happened. As you have rightly pointed out, the suspension of sittings is a matter of right when requested by the chairman of a group. As the Rules of Procedure currently stand, a member of a group does not have this option, unless he or she is mandated by his or her chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u321	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u322	I assume that the Presidency has checked, but we are now learning that this is an electronic authorisation. From now on, are we all allowed to proceed in this way? This is the first time I've heard of this possibility of electronic signature. There are also constraints to chairing a group, such as ensuring that leaves are there, arrived in time and passed on to friends. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds. - "Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I fully understand that you want to take advantage of the situation to change the balance of power in the House. Why not? In this case, assume it; But I'd rather tell you that he's going to cook you at least as much as he does in the case of mourning. You are, once again, caught in flagrante delicto of inhumanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u323	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u324	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u325	After listening to Valérie Rabault and Jean-Luc Mélenchon, I would like to point out that a delegation of votes was refused to the Libertés et territoires group a few months ago on the grounds that my signature was scanned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u326	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] What President Mélenchon said is important. Do the rules change? If they do, they have to change for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u328	I'd like to say two things. First of all, some of you have reacted in a virulent manner to the possibility of granting a request for suspension of sittings. I think that everyone has now understood that this request was right, and that there is a difference between the announcement of a public vote in the Palais-Bourbon and the time of the vote – I will recall just now the precise moment from which suspensions are no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u329	Don't sink!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u330	We judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u331	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I should like to stress this for all of our colleagues, because I have heard completely inappropriate comments on this subject. Then I have before me a request for a formal suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u332	It's not signed by hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u333	I have noted your thoughts and will pass them on to the President. In any case, I repeat, I do have a request for a formal suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u334	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u335	Now I hope that our debates will be calm again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u336	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u337	After the explanations of vote, we come to the vote. It's from now on that no suspension is possible anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u338	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u339	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 44 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u340	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u341	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u342	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Jeanine Dubié and others on the right of victims to apply for compensation to the Fund for the Guarantee of Victims of Acts of Terrorism and Other Offences (No. 2386 corrected, 2653).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u343	Mrs Jeanine Dubie, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u344	The bill we are looking at today is intended to clarify and improve the drafting of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the time limits for bringing a case before the Commission for the Compensation of Victims of Crime – CIVI – to benefit from the Fund for the Guarantee of Victims of Acts of Terrorism and Other Offences – FGTI. Indeed, the current wording of this article is a source of litigation against the victims, contrary to the spirit of the Act of 15 June 2000. Referred to by a number of lawyers, I have carefully examined its scope with regard to the right to compensation for victims and time limits for foreclosure. First of all, I would like to recall the legal framework for this right of compensation. Article 706-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure regulates the right to compensation for victims. At present, any person who has suffered harm as a result of an offence may obtain full compensation for the damage resulting from the offence, provided that such acts have resulted in the death, permanent incapacity, total incapacity for personal work of one month or more, or fall within the following offences: rape and other sexual assault, enslavement and exploitation of persons reduced to slavery, trafficking in human beings, procuring, forced labour and servitude reduction, sexual assault on minors. I would point out that the scope of this Article excludes offences under specific regimes such as those applicable to damage related to asbestos or acts of terrorism. In concrete terms, the victims seize the ICVI, which forwards their application to the FGTI, which is responsible for proposing a compensation amount within two months. As a court, the ICVI can then either approve the agreement if the victim accepts the offer from the FGTI, or fix the amount of compensation if the victim rejects the offer. The claim for compensation must be submitted within three years of the date of the offence. In the case of criminal proceedings, the time limit shall be extended and shall expire one year after the final decision of the court. Once the victim has been compensated, the FGTI is subrogated to the rights available to it and may turn against the perpetrator in order to claim reimbursement of the compensation paid. The foreclosure regime applicable to this system was amended by the Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims. Article 706-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the obligation of the criminal court ruling on damages to notify the victim of his or her right to submit a claim for compensation to the ICVI within one year. At the time, victims often suddenly learned, much more than a year after the trial, the very existence of the ICVIs. A lack of information therefore had to be addressed; It was not a school hypothesis. In addition, Parliament voted for a provision which it sought to protect: the removal of the one-year time limit to refer the case to the ICVI in the absence of an opinion given by the court. However, while it could be inferred from the travaux préparatoires of the Act of 15 June 2000 that the one-year period ran on the basis of the opinion given by the court which had decided definitively, this was not the interpretation adopted, in full legal rigour, by the Court of Cassation. According to the Court, for victims who have been awarded damages by a court, the period of one year does not run from the final decision, as in other cases, but from the opinion given by the first court which allocates damages, even if the court's decision is not final. This interpretation is correct from the legal point of view, but in concrete terms it puts the victims who have been awarded damages and who cannot wait until the end of the judicial proceedings before the ICVI. That is why, with the support of the departments of the Ministry of Justice, the interdepartmental delegation of assistance to victims, the FGTI and several lawyers, I have worked on a new drafting of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure – I also want to thank all the people who helped me in this endeavour. As a result of this work, I have proposed to the Law Committee a new wording of Article 706-5 which aims to create a single period of one year after the decision of the court which finally ruled on the public action and on the civil action brought before the criminal court to bring the claim for compensation. This new wording maintains the court's obligation to inform victims who have received damages of their opportunity to apply to the ICVI. Finally, it creates a case in which foreclosure can be automatically identified if this information has not been given. The amendment containing this new wording was adopted unanimously by my colleagues in the Committee on Laws. I thank them, and thank you again, Madam Chair of the Commission, for your interest in the bill and for your support. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Guillaume Vuilletet also applauds]] The wording of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will now be clearer and simpler. This bill contributes to improving the rights of victims and thus respects the spirit of the Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims. I hope that our bill will reach a new consensus today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u345	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u346	The bill on which you are called upon today, however technical, is an important practical step forward for the rights of victims of serious crimes. I would therefore like to pay tribute from the outset to Jeanine Dubie's commitment and to thank her for her constructive work with the Government, as she has just pointed out. In order to fully understand the issue of the text, I will start with some elements of the presentation of the procedure for the compensation of victims of offences. In the national territory, a commission of compensation for victims of offences is established in each judicial court, the ICVI, before which victims of offences, as well as their rights holders, can claim compensation. This compensation is paid by the FGTI in respect of national solidarity, with, of course, a subsequent appeal by the FGTI against the perpetrator. The compensation granted by the ICVI is comprehensive and unconditional in terms of resources for the most serious crimes against the person – death, permanent incapacity for work or total incapacity exceeding one month – or for those resulting from the most serious crimes – such as rape, abduction, enslavement, trafficking in human beings or pimping. The ICVI also provides compensation, but subject to resources, for lighter assaults on the person when the acts have resulted in a total incapacity for work of less than one month, as well as for damage suffered by victims of property damage, such as damage, theft, extortion of funds or fraud, where such victims are unable to obtain effective and sufficient reparation and are therefore in a serious material or psychological situation. The ICVI acts autonomously. The proceedings are conducted in parallel with the judicial proceedings against the perpetrators before the criminal judge. The aim is to provide victims with prompt reparation, which will enable them to rebuild without having to wait for the outcome of the criminal proceedings. Finally, the remedy before the ICVI is not subsidiary: it can be exercised by victims before criminal proceedings are initiated, or after, if such proceedings have not enabled the victim to obtain redress. The bill that you are going to look at is about the time within which the ICVI can receive a compensation claim from the victim: it is about changing the starting point of this deadline. According to article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the wording of the Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims, "unless foreclosure is permitted, the claim for compensation must be submitted within three years from the date of the offence". However, when criminal proceedings are carried out, this period is extended: it expires only one year after the decision of the criminal court which finally ruled on the public action or on the civil action. The decision is final when it is no longer subject to appeal, appeal, opposition or appeal in cassation. Since the Act of 15 June 2000, the text has finally been completed to clarify that, when the offender has been ordered to pay damages, the period of one year from the advice given by the court, in accordance with article 706-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, shall run. The purpose of this clarification was to draw the consequences of the creation by this law of the obligation, for the court condemning the offender to pay damages, to inform the victim of the possibility of bringing the matter before the ICVI. However, failure to require the decision to be final results in a de facto reduction of the time limit for foreclosure in this case. The drafting of the text is therefore now complex, since it provides for two different solutions when a criminal judgement has taken place: the deadline for referral to the ICVI is in principle one year from the final decision of the criminal court, i.e. the decision which is no longer subject to appeal; but, if a criminal judgement has taken place which has sentenced the perpetrator to damages, then the period of one year shall run from the opinion given by the court informing of the right of appeal to the ICVI, whether or not that decision is final. In the latter case, the civil parties will therefore have to apply to the ICVI without waiting for the expiry of the remedies against the decision granting them damages, as was the case before the law of 15 June 2000. However, some victims may legitimately wish to await a final decision by the judge that can no longer be challenged, and, if necessary, attempt to recover damages against the perpetrator before seeking national solidarity for compensation. For the sake of fairness and legibility of the text, it is therefore a matter of unifying the time limit for all victims to seek compensation before the ICVI. This period must, in all cases, run from the date on which the criminal court finally ruled on the public action or on the civil action. This is the meaning of the proposed law in its drafting resulting from the work of the Law Commission. The rights of victims are also safeguarded: when the opinion provided for in article 706-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure informs them of their right to apply to the ICVI for a claim for compensation has not been given to them by the court, it is provided that the ICVI will rule out foreclosure. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups. – Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, chairman of the committee, also applauds]] For all these reasons, although technical but important for the victims, the Government fully supports this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u347	In the general discussion, Mr Jean-Michel Clément spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u348	[[Applause on various benches]] Let me begin by thinking about our colleague Sylvain Brial, who is overcoming the serious health problem he has suffered and whose eyes I know he is looking at. The bill before us illustrates perfectly the dual mission of parliamentarians: on the one hand, to listen to the citizens; On the other hand, legislation. Listening to it means hearing the suffering of our fellow citizens, understanding them and making sure that they stop it, so that tomorrow they do not make new victims. Legislator, we were elected for that. However, we are not the only ones who say the right: the judge also has a say when the texts we vote on are imprecise and leave too much room for interpretation. The law is too often talkative; We are regularly criticized, often with good reason. When, on the other hand, it is imprecise, it is up to the judge to decide, whatever the consequences. But MEPs also have a duty to act when they see that a text lacks clarity. That is what our colleague Jeanine Dubié has understood, which is at the origin of this text. Jeanine Dubie is one of those elected officials who listen to everyone, who hear the joys, but also the sorrows and sufferings of their fellow citizens. The bill emerged as a result of one of those accidents of life that profoundly, irretrievably, bruises you. I would like to thank Matthieu de Vallois for his involvement throughout the drafting chain of this text, which aims to clarify the drafting of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the benefit of the victims of terrorist acts. I also thank the rapporteur: she fought for the text to be examined in the Chamber because she has a keen awareness of the need to clarify the law so that we do not add suffering to suffering. Colleagues, what is a victim? The answer may seem obvious, but it is not. If this term was rarely used before the end of the 15th century, it now defines any person who suffers harm or damage. Moreover, in our domestic law as in international law, the various legal designations of a victim describe it from the notion of damage. A victim, however, is much more than that. It is first and foremost a human being with freedom of choice and autonomy that enables him to find his place in society. Not to offer her the opportunity to rebuild herself in the best possible conditions, not to let her turn the page of the damage she suffered, that is to deny her her status as a moral and social subject, it is to prevent her from getting rid of the victim's label that the perpetrator has placed on her. The legislator has in recent years adopted provisions aimed at facilitating the reconstruction of victims. The indemnity dimension has thus been complementary to other aspects of reconstruction, those which fall within the medical, psychological or social fields. While it is not necessary to reduce the reconstruction of a victim to its only indemnity dimension, we have a duty to do everything possible to alleviate, simplify, fluidize and humanise its judicial path. Unfortunately, the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation has made the Act of 15 June 2000 an application contrary to the interests of the victims by reducing the period within which they could refer the matter to the ICVI. This interpretation of the Supreme Judges is contrary to the spirit of the Act of 15 June 2000: it is contrary to the objective of protecting the presumption of innocence, since, if the award of damages is made within a time limit which ends before a final decision of the court establishing guilt or not, the alleged offender is de facto found guilty in the event of award of damages. It also discriminates against persons to whom a court has recognized victim status but who must respect, in order to apply to the ICVI, a shorter period than those who do not. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to rewrite Article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure so that it really contributes to strengthening the policy of aid for the reconstruction of the victims which our predecessors wanted to implement and which the people who are entitled to expect. During the examination in committee, you unanimously acknowledged the usefulness of the text which my colleague Jeanine Dubie proposes to adopt; Our group thanks you for that. You have thus measured how reparation for the victim's harm must be a structural element of his reconstruction, as well as of the sentence and its execution. This unanimous awareness of the need to correct the current system is to the credit of our Assembly. With the drafting and procedural precision that we will bring to the law of 15 June 2000, the judicial institution and the association network of assistance to victims, which is doing remarkable work, will be able to work together effectively for the reconstruction of the victims. The draft law will clarify and supplement the drafting of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the benefit of victims: it creates a single period of one year after the court decision which finally ruled on the public action and on the civil action brought before the criminal court to submit a claim for compensation; it maintains the obligation under article 706-15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the court to inform the victim to whom the benefit of damages is recognized of his or her possibility of bringing an action before the ICVI; it creates a case in which foreclosure can be automatically identified when the information has not been given. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this text, which is a clear response to the Court of Cassation's interpretation and which brings greater legal certainty to the victims, but also to the persons alleged to have committed the acts in question. Our legal system must ensure the proper administration of all situations, react with humanity to the tragedies and condemn the culprits outside the arbitrariness of subjectivity and according to clear and precise rules of law: it is on this condition that the litigants will regain confidence in justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and LR groups]] At a time when the distrust of political personnel is growing because the sovereign people feel that they are no longer in control of their destiny, at a time when our fellow citizens are less and less confident in a justice that they feel is dehumanized because they are alienated from their daily realities and difficulties, we have a responsibility to provide just remedies to the evils that are affecting our democracy. At its level, this bill contributes to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u349	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u350	It is proposed to rewrite article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which gives victims of terrorist acts or other offences the right to receive compensation for their harm from the guarantee fund provided for that purpose. A failure to draft this article in a previous amendment led the Court of Cassation to give an interpretation limiting victims' access to such compensation. The legislator's intention was to set the starting point for the period of foreclosure at the date of the final decision of the court seised of the repressive part of a case, but a sentence was wrongly added that would run the time from the court's opinion on the damages awarded to the victim. This shortening of the deadline is unacceptable, as it restricts the right of victims to compensation for the harm suffered as a result of such offences. And this lack of drafting places them in an intolerable legal insecurity. I hope that this conviction is shared by the whole of national representation and that this proposal will be unanimous. However, the Group of the European People's Party believes that the very principle of a deadline is contrary to the idea of national solidarity in the area of compensation for victims of terrorism. The harm suffered by victims of acts of terrorism or other offences may occur well after the one-year period, as the physical or psychological sequelae caused by such trauma may occur long after the commission of the offence. It is therefore contrary to human psychology to limit by an arbitrary period, in the present case of one year, the ability of victims to claim compensation for their injury. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – The rapporteur and Mr Jean-Michel Clément also applaud]] However, we will vote in favour of this bill, which extends the time limit for referral to the Compensation Fund for Victims of Terrorism and Other Offences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u351	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u352	What more can be said about this bill, which, as has been repeated, tends to revise the writing of article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? The current wording of this article is indeed a source of litigation against the victims, and it is contrary to the spirit of the Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims. Therefore, the text under consideration today simply seeks to clarify a provision of our Code of Criminal Procedure in order to simplify the access of victims of some of the most serious offences to the compensation to which they are entitled. Today, under article 706-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, any person who has suffered harm as a result of certain offences "may obtain full compensation for the damage resulting from the injury to the person", provided that such acts "have resulted in death, permanent incapacity or total incapacity for work equal to or greater than one month" or fall within the following offences: rape and other sexual assault, enslavement and exploitation of persons enslaved, trafficking in human beings, procuring, forced labour and servitude reduction, sexual assault on minors. The allowance is awarded by the ICVI, on the proposal of the FGTI. The claim for compensation must be submitted within three years of the date of the infringement; in the case of criminal proceedings, the time limit shall be extended and shall expire one year after the final decision of the court. The purpose of compensation is, if not to erase the criminal act which the victim has suffered, to at least place the victim in a situation as close as possible to that which was his prior to the act. The purpose of this draft law is, in its drafting and procedural precision, to remedy the interpretations of the Court of Cassation and to improve the rights of victims. It sets out the starting point for the one-year period for claiming compensation from the ICVI. For the record, the travaux préparatoires of the Act of 15 June 2000 indicated that the period of one year was based on the opinion given by the court which finally ruled. However, this was not the interpretation adopted by the Court of Cassation in 2013, according to which the one-year period did not run from the date of the decision which decided positively and definitively on the award of damages, as in the other cases provided for in article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but from the date of the opinion given by the first court which awarded them, even if its decision is not final. This interpretation of the Court of Cassation may be formally correct, but it disadvantages victims who have been awarded damages and cannot wait until the end of the judicial proceedings that concern them to refer the matter to the ICVI. If we vote on this bill, only the opinion of the final court can serve as a starting point for the victim's claim for compensation, rather than the opinion of the first court that awarded damages. The situation – as you said in committee, Madam rapporteur – will be simpler, clearer and more favourable to victims than the one that exists today, especially since the recovery of sums allocated by criminal courts is sometimes disconcerting for victims who find, often at the last moment, that it is up to them themselves to take steps to be compensated. [[The rapporteur applauds]] To put it plainly, you, the rapporteur, wanted to correct an injustice suffered by the victims; This is a good thing – the new wording has, moreover, received the unanimous consent of the members of the committee, which deserves to be stressed – because compensation for the damage suffered, which may sometimes seem secondary, actually contributes fully to the reconstruction of the victims. I thank you, therefore, for having done so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u353	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u354	We are gathered to consolidate the guarantees afforded to victims, including their right to apply for compensation to the Victims of Terrorism and Other Crimes Guarantee Fund. In the face of the victim facing an iniquitous situation, it is the responsibility of the justice system to redress injustice while compensating for suffering. This commonly accepted conception, characterized by both the idea of illegitimate suffering and the need to repair, is recent. Indeed, the victim has long been the great forgotten of our procedures. Robert Badinter, then keeper of the seals, pointed out at the time of the vote of the law of 8 July 1983 strengthening the protection of victims of crime that "the victim is in the worst of solitudes, that which is accompanied by a feeling of rejection", because, most often, the criminal act results in excluding the victim from society by more or less seriously altering the link between him and his various communities of belonging. Now, thanks in particular to the Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims, the victim is increasingly being taken into account, both in civil proceedings and in criminal proceedings. To protect the victim, to provide compensation, to enable him to return to the social body, is to break the social isolation created by the damage suffered. Compensation, guided by the idea of remedying the social consequences of the criminal act for the victim, ultimately has the main objective of placing the victim in a situation as close as possible to that which would have been his if the harmful event had not occurred. However, while the legislator's intention was to improve the rights of victims under the Act of 15 June 2000, the subsequent clarifications by the Court of Cassation concerning the delay in claiming compensation from the ICVI had the effect of restricting it. This situation creates, on the one hand, real legal uncertainty for the victims, and, on the other hand, seems contrary to the spirit of the law of 15 June 2000, since it undermines their rights. This bill is therefore welcome: it provides a useful drafting and procedural clarification in order to return to the intention expressed by the legislator during the review of the Act of 15 June 2000. The proposed law sets out the starting point for the one-year period within which the victim of certain offences can claim compensation from the ICVI when the perpetrator has been convicted by a court to pay damages: only the opinion given by the court which has finally ruled on the public action or on the civil action can serve as a starting point for the additional time available to the victim to apply for compensation in the particular case where the offender is sentenced to payment of damages. During the examination of the text in the Committee on Laws, we voted for an amendment by the rapporteur to clarify the wording of the article of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which her draft law tends to clarify. This clarification creates, on the one hand, a single period of one year after the decision of the court which finally ruled on the public action and on the civil action brought before the criminal court for the victim to submit a claim for compensation. On the other hand, it provides for an automatic extension of the one-year period – the one in which the final court has not informed the victims who have received damages of their possibility to apply to the ICVI in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. It seems quite appropriate to carry out this editorial precision in order to consolidate the intention of the legislator and, thus, the guarantees granted to victims, whose effectiveness will thus be increased. Because it is our responsibility to facilitate the path of compensation for victims in order to ensure the proper functioning of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Therefore, the moving Republic Group will vote in favour of this positive, consensual and constructive text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u355	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u356	First of all, I would like to thank the Libertés et Territoires Group for putting the victim and his rights at the heart of the debate, by proposing a real simplification measure: not a measure that will block or complicate the access of litigants to the law, but simply the fruit of common sense, consultation and listening – a return to the ground. As we know, the law of 15 June 2000 was too explicit – unless it was not sufficiently explicit. It has, in any event, led the Court of Cassation to make it a restrictive interpretation contrary to the interests of the victim as intended by the then legislator. Such procedural problems, such a difficulty of interpretation by the Court of Cassation must never come to the detriment of the victim. That is, I imagine, the reason why you, ladies and gentlemen, wished to table this bill and put it to our vote. The approach is logical: giving the victim time to purge criminal and civil remedies before claiming compensation seems perfectly understandable; giving him the opportunity to apply to the ICVI after knowledge of the criminal decision seems to be consistent; ensuring that the perpetrator's insolvency or non-compliance with the facts of a probationed conviction is a matter for the proper administration of justice. Finally, asking society to replace the perpetrator in order to guarantee the victim fair compensation for the harm suffered ensures the proper application of the law and to remain faithful to what our penal and societal system should be. By this law, the legislator exercises his duty properly by correcting a misinterpretation of case law and restoring his original spirit to the law. We can only rejoice in that. We have all too often heard in this House that the law needs to be changed to bring it into line with case law. This is not the case today: it is precisely the opposite approach that we will take by voting on this bill. Let us beware that, in the future, the reform of the procedure will be carried out in the same spirit. The content of our debates is proof that, when experience and common sense speak, unanimity can be achieved. It is an expression of the good exercise of parliamentary power, in the service of the general interest, which must preside over all our decisions, particularly in the field of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] As you will understand, the Republicans Group will vote on this bill to standardize the deadline for victims to apply to the ICVI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u357	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u358	The bill before us, which is timelyly tabled by our colleague Jeanine Dubié, from the Libertés et Territoires Group, aims – this has been said – to correct a restrictive interpretation by the Court of Cassation concerning the time limits for victims to submit a claim for compensation to the FGTI. It was discussed by consensus in committee and adopted unanimously. The relevance of the proposed measures seems obvious to us, and the MODEM Group will vote in favour of the text. Until 2000, article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure clearly provided that victims could apply to the ICVI within one year "after the decision of the court which finally ruled on the public action or on the civil action brought before the criminal court". The Act of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims amended the wording of this article. In the spirit of the then legislator, the main purpose of the new wording was to oblige the substantive court to inform the victim of his right to submit a claim for compensation to the ICVI within one year. It must be noted that the Court of Cassation, in its judgment of 28 March 2013, made a different and much more restrictive interpretation of the article, considering that the period of one year runs from the opinion given by the substantive court which allocates damages at first instance, even if the decision is not final. It therefore seems, as our rapporteur has excellently demonstrated, that the current situation is unfavourable to the rights of victims. Therefore, clarification of the text was expected. In this context, the purpose of this bill is to amend article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Such a provision would seem judicious, since it would allow the one-year period to run again from the opinion given by the final court, while retaining the obligation to inform the victim of his or her rights and drawing the consequences of his or her possible non-compliance. In addition, the text standardizes the starting point for the period of foreclosure and gives more legibility and interest to the compensation mechanism for victims. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups]] For these reasons, the MODEM and related groups favour it and will vote with enthusiasm, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u359	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u360	The purpose of this bill is to correct a legislative provision relating to the ITGF procedure. This fund covers victims of ordinary offences, as well as victims of terrorist acts and asbestos through a specific procedure; it seeks reimbursement of the sums paid from the perpetrators. The text deals with the provisions aimed only at victims of ordinary offences, which were more than 16,000 in 2019 – victims of assault, domestic violence, attempted homicide, human trafficking or fraud – to appeal to the FGTI to obtain compensation for their harm. Lawyers have told us of the procedural difficulties resulting from an interpretation of the regime of foreclosure by the Court of Cassation which is not in accordance with the will of the legislator of the time. This regime, applicable to the referral to the ICVI, was amended by Act No. 2000-516 of 15 June 2000 strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the rights of victims and amending, in Article 706-5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the starting point for the period of foreclosure. This law introduced a two-pronged system: the obligation of the court to notify the victim who has received damages of the possibility offered to him/her to refer the case to the ICVI; a protective provision, i.e. the removal of the one-year time limit for bringing an action before the ICVI in the absence of an opinion given by the court. However, while it could be inferred from the travaux préparatoires of the law that the one-year period ran on the basis of the opinion given by the final court, this was not the interpretation adopted by the Court of Cassation. The purpose of this text is therefore to provide drafting and procedural clarification in order to consolidate the guarantees granted to victims. It thus specifies in Article 1 that the period of one year for bringing an action before the ICVI shall run from the notice given by the court which has decided definitively. The effect of this amendment, however, is not to remove the court's obligation to notify the victim of the fact that it can apply to the ICVI and obtain redress, even if one of the parties has appealed the decision. The Socialist and Related Group is in favour of the text, since the full rights of victims are thus preserved and clarified. We thank the rapporteur for this bill, which clarifies an essential mechanism for victims and facilitates its implementation. Through the FGTI, society and justice express their support for the victims and guarantee them the reparation due to them. It is important for the legislator to ensure that the mechanism by which the law applies does not cause any futile slowdown or concern. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups]] This is the useful work of this bill, which should be the subject of a unanimous vote by national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u361	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u362	The history of the position of victims in our criminal law is long and sinuous. We leave by far, since the function of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to prosecute offences on behalf of society in order to punish the perpetrators: historically, since criminal justice is a public justice, it leaves no room for the victims. However, in the face of the harm suffered by the latter, who legitimately seek to be taken into consideration, criminal law has gradually set itself a new objective: to compensate the victims. The creation of a guarantee fund to ensure their compensation was a major step forward. The wave of attacks that struck France in the 1980s led the legislator to devise a specific mechanism to redress the harm suffered by the victims. The Victims of Terrorism Guarantee Fund was established in 1986. Since 1990, his mission has been extended to the care of victims of ordinary offences – those of concern to us today. Since its inception, the FGTI has thus carried out a mission of general interest in the name of national solidarity. It is therefore appropriate that the ICVI be seized as widely as possible. However, as a result of successive reforms and court decisions, there has been an ambiguity as to the deadline for referral to the Commission. The Act of 15 June 2000 first introduced a step forward by requiring the court seised on the merits to inform the victim of its right to apply to the ICVI. However, this law has also introduced a difficulty as to the starting point for the period within which the victim may refer the matter to the Commission. The text suggests that, when the offender has been ordered to pay damages, the deadline is from the information given to the victim of his right to seize the guarantee fund, rather than from the final court decision. Consequently, the Court of Cassation applies to the letter the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which poses several difficulties: in addition to the fact that the time limit for bringing an application to the ICVI is necessarily reduced, this interpretation, which is unfavourable to the victims, appears in total inadequate with the Act of 15 June 2000 and creates a disparity between the victims. The bill we are discussing today is therefore intended to clarify the starting point by stating that the deadline is from the final decision. This text allows us to raise, more broadly, the issue of compensation for victims through the FGTI. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the procedures are lengthy, for sometimes limited compensation. We should therefore ask ourselves about the means available to this fund. In addition to ordinary offences, the resurgence of attacks unfortunately augurs for a sharp increase in its activity. The financial care of the victims will not erase the tragedies experienced, but it will allow them to look materially at the future. It must be ensured in accordance with these issues. [[The rapporteur and Ms Patricia Mirallès applaud]] Pending further debate on this point, any procedural improvement is welcome. The bill proposed by our colleague Jeanine Dubie allows for a clarification of common sense, facilitating the path of compensation for victims. The UDI-Agir Group will therefore vote without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u363	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u364	The bill we are considering is in the direction of greater procedural consistency and corrects certain aspects of the case law that has been established over the years to the detriment of the spirit of the Act of 15 June 2000 and the rights of victims. It is therefore of such a nature as to strengthen this right in a useful way. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left welcomes the initiative of our colleagues in the Freedom and Territory Group and will vote on the text without hesitation. However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and the attention of the Government to two subjects relating to respect for the rights of victims, which are of particular interest to me. The first is the break from the beginning of the quinquennium with the outright abolition of the State Secretariat to the Prime Minister responsible for victim assistance, then in the midst of structuring. The very existence of this ministerial department, with a dedicated political authority and administration, was welcomed by all – starting, of course, with the victims and their families and associations. It was a useful and effective Secretariat of State, through which, according to the National Federation of Victims of Attacks and Collective Accidents, the consequences of the Nice bombing had been better dealt with than those of the 13 November bombing. As early as June 2017, I had spoken here in favour of its recovery. While an interdepartmental delegate was finally appointed a few weeks later, her attachment to the Ministry of Justice rather than to the Prime Minister significantly limits the scope of her action. "Repairing the victims", to use an expression by Françoise Rudetzki, is not limited to the judicial field – I have many examples in mind, which the time allocated to me today does not allow me to quote. I therefore turn to the second subject which is of interest to me and which stems from the first: the functioning of the FGTI. As a Member of Parliament for a constituency marked by the attacks, I am particularly sensitive to the fate of the victims, for accompanying several of them in the administration's meanderings. It must be noted, however, that the functioning of the ITGF faces many difficulties. For lack of time, again, I shall mention only three of them. The first is the slowness of the expertise: four years after the facts, some victims of the November 13, 2015 attack have still not obtained an expert report. Is that logical? The second is the partiality of the experts. They are always the same, and they are appointed by the FGTI. The result is a close relationship that justifies the impartiality of their expertise sometimes being discussed. Thirdly, it should be noted that the progress of the expertise also raises questions. In this way, representatives of the FGTI attend the examination carried out by doctors-experts on the victims of attacks, which is contrary to all practices and runs counter to medical secrecy. The slowness of the expertise, the questions raised by their content and the suspicions of bias that they give rise to lead the victims to experience a great sense of abandonment, but also, sometimes, of anger. On 13 November last, on the occasion of the commemoration of the attacks at the Stade de France, I presented several victims or families of victims to members of the Government, including the Minister of Justice. They were, for example, the family of Manuel Dias, a bus driver killed by the explosion of one of the suicide bombers, or young women who worked that evening in the cafes around the stadium and wounded forever in their souls and in their flesh. Between 2014 and 2015, more than 2600 people were directly or indirectly victims of the attacks. Our country has an immense duty to it. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and LT groups]] While confirming our group's favourable vote on this bill, I reiterate the request we have made several times here: our country must re-establish a full-fledged State Secretariat to ensure that the situation of the victims of terrorism is taken into account in a more reasonable and impartial manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u365	The general discussion is closed. On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u366	I would like to thank all the speakers for speaking in favour of this bill presented by the Libertés et territoires Group. We are doing a useful job, not only for the victims, since the compensation procedure would be simpler and clearer, but also for the whole of our judicial organisation, because we will now avoid litigation, waste of time and, sometimes, decisions that turn against the interests of the persons concerned. I think I can deduce from your interventions that the bill will be voted unanimously: I thank all my colleagues for that. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Thank you also to the Secretary of State for having tabled an amendment aimed at lifting the pledge which was the subject of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u367	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u368	I reiterate my thanks to Mrs Dubie for the work she has done. I welcome the good intelligence in which this text was built with the services of the Government and all parliamentary groups. Without prejudging the vote that will follow, I welcome the unanimity on the bill. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Finally, I confirm that, for the sake of clarity, the Government has just tabled an amendment to delete article 2 and the pledge contained therein.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u369	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u370	The Government's amendment No. 1 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u371	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u372	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 36 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u373	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u374	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u375	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Paul Molac and others on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages (No. 2548, 2654).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u376	Mr Paul Molac, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u377	A brief historical reminder: we cannot say that in our history the relations between the state and the regional languages have been fluid. Things have even been very unusually spoiled since the French Revolution. Barère thus said that federalism and superstition spoke low-breton and that fanaticism spoke Basque. Michelet himself had a singular conception of Brittany: "a colony, like Alsace and the Basques, more than Guadeloupe". So it was the linguistic difference that mattered to him. These territories were more exotic because they did not speak French, although certainly much closer to Paris and the metropolis from an economic point of view. This approach continued before it began to evolve after the Second World War, with the adoption in 1951 of the law on the teaching of local languages and dialects, known as the Deixonne Act. Initially, it was an ambitious bill, with many articles, but when it arrived, it came down to a simple provision that made it possible to study a regional language when it made it easier to learn French. It was a little limited. Since 1958, of the forty-five regional language bills that had to be put on the Bureau of the Assembly, only two have been examined: one in 2015, presented – already! – by your servant; the other one in 2016, with about the same content, and defended by the group that had precisely refused the previous text before judging, a year later, to make up for its mistake. The bill that I am introducing today is therefore the third. The legislative provisions on regional languages are relatively scattered, fragmented and generally very inadequate. We were able to include a rather interesting mention on the subject in the Peillon law of 2013. In 2015, the law, known as NOTRE, on the new territorial organization of the Republic addressed the issue of the payment of school fees when a child attends bilingual education in a public institution located in a municipality other than his or her own. In 2017, the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas amended the decree of 2 thermidor year II, which originally punished six months of imprisonment and removed any public officer writing acts in a language other than French. So, little by little, things are changing. I come to Article 75-1 of the Constitution, which states that "regional languages belong to the heritage of France" – you know him well, dear Marc Le Fur, since you were the author of the amendment that led to his introduction. In fact, we needed such a constitutional cling. And just as the Toubon law is a declination of Article 2 of the Constitution, according to which "the language of the Republic is French", my bill is intended to be a legislative declination of Article 75-1. The Constitutional Council invites us, and it is not the only one, since the Attorney General of the Rennes Court of Appeal has called on the legislator to rule on the use of "n" tildé in the French language. Let him reassure himself: this problem is one of those that this bill is trying to solve, setting certain milestones to clarify the situation. Indeed, as the Constitutional Council had indicated, the reference to regional languages in the Constitution did not give speakers any rights, even if it imposed some duties on the State, since those languages were part of the heritage. Articles 1 and 2, adopted in committee, recognize the French language and regional languages as an integral part of France's heritage. In this regard, I do not understand why the majority does not want to include this provision in the Heritage Code. Since the Constitution now recognizes that regional languages are part of France's heritage, this refusal seems a bit curious. Moreover, it was because I was told that languages did not fall within the scope of the 2003 Convention for the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage – which I believe to be questionable – that I gave up my reference to Article 1 in favour of the Heritage Code. I have seen that the majority has tabled an amendment to delete Article 2, which deals with property. It seems to me important to keep it – I will provide an enlightening example in this regard. Similarly, the provisions on education, which had been abolished in committee, should be reinstated. They are, of course, the heart of my bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u379	Indeed, how can a language be preserved if it is not learned or mastered? A language doesn't get damaged when you speak it, but only when you don't speak it! Children must therefore have access to and speak regional languages. Otherwise, they'll disappear. It's no more complicated than that, everyone understands it. Article 3 was therefore intended to extend the offer: it provided that agreements between the State and the regions could lead to the provision of regional language teaching within the normal school schedule. Given that such agreements are more or less well respected – rather less than more, in this case – and that, where they are not, the regions that have signed them cannot assign the State to the administrative court, the scope of this article may be considered moderate. I could have gone further, but I know that it is necessary to proceed in stages, the first of which is teacher training. Nevertheless, the idea that a child may, if he or she so requests, receive education in the regional language must be strongly affirmed, as that is how the heritage will be protected. Article 4 intended to recognise experiments carried out in public education. It was designed to restore power to educators, taking into account local situations. Thus, while in metropolitan France 99% of children do not speak the regional language in their family environment, the same is not true overseas. Therefore, exposure to the regional language within the school cannot be the same throughout the country. To those who arbitrarily propose a ratio of 50-50, I answer that it depends on the needs. In the amendment to re-establish these provisions, I have taken into account the comments of our colleague Yannick Kerlogot by simply stating that a mastery of both languages was expected at the end of school – an essential objective. Articles 5 and 6 provided for the possibility of paying money to schools under contract – of the first degree for article 5, of the second for article 6 – to build premises, which they find difficult to do today. Following Ms. Bannier's reflections, I consulted with Catholic and associative schools that felt that my writing was good. Article 7 sought to clarify article L. 212-8 of the Education Code, always with the aim of developing bilingual education. Rule 8 has been voted on by the committee, and we will come back to it if you wish. Article 9 dealt with diacritical signs. On 25 September 2017, I wrote to Mrs Belloubet, with some 20 members, asking her to solve the "n" tildé problem. We have never received an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u380	Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u381	On Tuesday, February 4, the day before the discussion of the draft law in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, a press release was issued, stating that it was now a settled matter. Perfect! The case is settled, except that it is necessary first to conduct a study, then to seek the opinion of the Council of State, for a provision which, in any case, will not apply immediately... In short, as Charles Pasqua said, "the promises commit only those who receive them." I therefore remain quite suspicious and – as I say to you clearly – I would prefer this provision to be included in the law. This bill has been drafted with regional language associations and parents' associations in order to facilitate the consideration of their requests in the field. There is an urgent need, because all the regional languages of France, with the exception of Basque, are classified in great danger of extinction by UNESCO. While some might believe that the decline of regional languages is a natural phenomenon, Basque or Welsh prove precisely the opposite. In Wales today, it is mainly people over the age of 40 who do not speak Welsh. Bilingual teaching and signage have been developed for a long time. A genuine language policy is being pursued in order to preserve the Welsh language. And it works! In France, the situation is not that simple, and this bill is a modest contribution to remedy it. It could have been much more ambitious, understood many other articles, but I contented myself with the essentials. This proposal is very much expected in the territories – but not only. I was quite surprised by the number of phone calls I received, especially from journalists, including Figaro or the World. In the evening newspaper was published yesterday a forum signed by 128 academics and researchers who blame your reform of the baccalaureate, Minister, in particular its deleterious effects on regional languages. We have already often alerted you to this problem, without getting a satisfactory answer at the moment. The aim of this text is therefore to preserve the regional languages, to promote their teaching so that they are alive and that our society is plurilingual. The idea is that everyone should not be limited to a single, even national, language, but should also speak the language of their region and foreign languages. In the open world that is ours, the regional language is the one that allows us to anchor ourselves somewhere, but thanks to the language skills that our learning allows us to develop in children, it is also the one that allows us to open up to the outside world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u382	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u383	I'm finishing, Mr. President. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u384	I know you won't abuse it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u385	Thus, the Occitan opens towards Italian or Castilian. We could also give the example of the Alsatian.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u386	[[Smile]] If he quotes the Alsatian, the president will give him more time to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u387	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and UDI-Agir groups. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] The bridges to the peoples around us are multiple. And I do not mention overseas: if there are about ten languages in metropolitan France, there are about sixty in overseas France. This is a great heritage. I invite you, of course, in conclusion, to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u388	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u389	As we understand it, Mr Molac's proposal aims to promote regional languages, and that is why some of his aspects relate to heritage, and others to civil status or education. I will speak for the Government in response to all the questions posed by this text. [[Anne-Christine Lang applauds]] First of all, I would like to reply to the rapporteur, saying that, in my view, the debate is not between the Republicans on the one hand and the advocates of regional languages on the other. In my view, this is, to a large extent, a proposal for a special law and one can legitimately wonder whether it actually serves the development of regional languages or whether it is a matter of adopting a political stance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u390	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u391	I note that you began your speech with a critique of the French Republic and Revolution. The one who succeeds you in this rostrum is Breton, and also a bit Alsatian. As rector, he developed regional languages, including ultramarine languages. But he is also French and Republican, the words "Révolution française" and "Republique" do not scare him, and he remains faithful to these references.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u392	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u393	Even by quoting Jules Michelet or other good authors, we cannot, today, wage rear-guard battles consisting of opposing the centre and the regions, denying the compatibility between the essence of France and regional identities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u394	It's starting very badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u395	It's not a rear-guard fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u396	We have no problem with regional languages and identities, on the contrary. We are living at a time when national education is willing to promote regional languages. To take an example to which you will be sensitive, almost half of the 20,000 students who study Breton are schooled at the public school. 1000 FTEs – full-time equivalents – are paid by National Education to allow this education to take place in private and in the public, which we look forward to. So all the strategies that consist of trying to oppose regional languages and national construction are simply counterproductive in relation to the objective that you say you are aiming for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u397	That's not our strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u398	[[Exclaims on LT banks]] The discussion on the subject had every reason to be calmed down and therefore could not be divided. The practice of regional languages is one of the main objectives of the Republic, although we need to make further progress in this area. Today, 380,000 students learn a regional living language and every day we work to increase this figure. To get there, there are two paths. The one that you hear, it seems, makes us borrow, which consists in wanting to give a special status to the teaching of the regional language by erecting around it ramparts, ditches, harrows, giving a Manichean vision of history. And then there is the path that I think is right, more rewarding for regional languages: to show that they are fully part of our culture, as well as all other languages and disciplines taught at school. As Minister of National Education, I am obviously in favour of the diversity of languages, whether they be regional languages, foreign languages or even old languages. I say this in the aftermath of the death of George Steiner, an immense linguist, who, like you, defended a principle on which we can all agree: the multiplicity of languages is a wealth and not a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u399	That's better...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u400	We must learn the lesson of Pierre-Jakez Hélias, who appears in this year's Breton specialty education program: "What is often lacking in human societies to move forward is confidence in themselves. Let us trust ourselves, have confidence in the French language and in the regional languages! And I say this from this rostrum: I am confident in the development of regional languages. In saying this, I do not deny the problems, I do not claim that adjustments, modernisations are not necessary. I am simply saying that, in a world of ever-wider horizons, as a result of the transport revolution and the means of communication, we can decline our universality into three dimensions: the local scale, the national scale and the international scale – scales that also correspond, of course, to linguistic horizons. The balance between local and international is that of the nation, here the defence of the French language, an idea which is not opposed to regional languages but is linked with them. We are therefore all in favour of the teaching of regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u401	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u402	They contribute to the intellectual and sensitive training of human beings. The language, and the symbol power it conveys, makes it possible to grasp the complexity of worlds. As Minister of National Education, I hope that the development of regional languages will take place within a legal framework because the Republic is the law, the common law, which is the space for our freedom, equality and fraternity. It is often said that unity is not uniformity – nothing is more true. It can also be said that the particularity is not particularism. Our line must therefore be clear: regional languages are developing within public and private education. This development takes place on a daily basis thanks to our teachers and a proactive pedagogical action. The legislation in force gives us all the levers to act properly. To support the opposite is to maintain divisions that no longer exist; This is tantamount to putting these languages out of their mere cultural dimension in order to be the subject of false debates, polemics and, in the end, to prevent their development. It therefore takes serenity to support regional languages in good faith; This tranquillity is also the feeling felt by our fellow citizens who are proud to belong to territories with ancient and deep culture, proud to be French and proud to be actors in Europe and in the world. Since my arrival in the ministry, we have strengthened the offer of regional language teaching because we have been confronted for many years with the massive decline, between the college and the high school, of the numbers of students who study them. It is also true of ancient languages and other disciplines. However, we can work within the existing legal framework. You referred to the reform of the baccalaureate. One of his contributions, I would remind you, is that it is now possible to benefit from a regional language specialty education – four hours in first class, six hours in terminal – a device that did not previously exist. It is therefore a false case for the reform of the baccalaureate that it could harm regional languages. Their practice depends above all on demand and it is therefore very important that we know how to stimulate it – again, very calmly. We must also be careful not to exhaust the pool in which to recruit future regional language teachers. That is why we have instituted special education to help train tomorrow's teachers. This teaching has started to find its audience since there are about one hundred pupils for the learning of Corsica, about one hundred also for Breton, thirty for Basque and as much for Occitan. It's just a start. There is also a very important offer of a regional language in the living language, which concerns several hundred students. These languages are now the subject of tests of continuous control and therefore of a strengthened seriousness. Some expressed concern about the decline in LVC, i.e. in living language 3. This decline is mostly offset by the opening of specialty education. [[Ms. Géraldine Bannier and Mr. Vincent Bru applaud]] I agree with you that the attractiveness of regional languages is fragile. Is it because of a lack of education? I don't believe it because where there is a request, we open posts. Is it because of a weakness in demand? In some places, that's the case. That is why we need to step up our efforts to promote regional languages. As you know, the Ministries of the Interior, Culture and National Education finance a large part of the various public offices of regional language – progress has still recently been made in favour of Alsace. Together, we can therefore contribute to the development of regional languages. There is no need to act as if the current legislative framework or national policies were to counteract this development. On the other hand, it is important to proceed constructively, to seek national unity through a language policy. It is simply a matter of carrying out a policy capable of advancing the students and, through them, the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u403	In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u404	Minister, we appreciated the end of your speech more than its beginning. However, I did not feel any particular aggression in Mr Molac's remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u405	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u406	We are representatives of the territories, the diversity of the country, its traditions, its cultures,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u407	We are first and foremost representatives of the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u408	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] ... and it is not abnormal to ask the question of the legitimacy of the development of regional languages. Again, and this is a spontaneous reaction on my part, I recognized myself better in the end of your speech – on which there is no controversy to have – than in its beginning. As a speaker for the Freedom and Territory Group, I am proud to be able to defend the diversity of our regions, in particular their linguistic diversity. This imperative is also prominent in our group's charter and no one would have understood that its members did not defend it. Therefore, the inclusion of this bill by our colleague Paul Molac on the agenda of the parliamentary niche which is reserved for us once again confirms the reality of our commitment to this wealth. First of all, I see it as a humanistic imperative because, for too long, our Republic considered that its quest for universality was based on a single language that would be binding on all. State-building has thus been reflected in the development of the use of French. French culture had to give access to civilization and that access therefore required learning the French language. However, giving a political aim to a language is a fundamental mistake that is still too often reproduced. Our colleague quoted MP Barère, who concluded his speech: "In a free people, the language must be one and the same for all. While the principles of the Republic are universal, they must nevertheless be able to express themselves in all the languages of the world and a fortiori the languages of France. In the name of what superior principle, indeed, the notions of freedom, equality and fraternity to French could not be transcribed into Corsican, occitan or even Futunian? Although French is our common language, it must not be exclusive to the other languages of metropolitan France and overseas. French citizenship can be fully expressed in an identity that does not live exclusively in a single language, as it does not live in a single religion or cultural identity. Why would these people with different languages, origins and beliefs be constantly called upon to choose one or the other of their identities? Undoubtedly, as Amin Maalouf of the Académie française, wrote in Les Identités assassines, "because of these habits of thought and expression so rooted in us all, because of this narrow, exclusive, bigote, simplistic conception that reduces the entire identity to one belonging". Yet, he continues, "identity is not given once and for all, it is built and transformed throughout existence. In short, it cannot be segmented binaryly, it is a whole. In fact, he says, "nothing is more dangerous than trying to break the maternal cord that connects a man to his tongue. When it is broken, or seriously disturbed, it has a disastrous impact on the entire personality. » It should therefore be assumed that regional languages are part of the common heritage of all French. Whether or not they speak a regional language, they are part of the country's history and continue to forge its daily life. But a heritage that has been passed on to us from generation to generation, it is protected. Cultural diversity, linguistic diversity are treasures of humanity whose disappearance would be irreparable. This is where I see, with the humanist imperative, a second imperative to save regional languages: the environmentalist imperative, consisting of defending the diversity of the living. It is estimated that 5 per cent of the approximately 7,000 current languages are spoken by 95 per cent of the world's population. All others, 95% of them, are spoken by only 5% of humans. But there are no small or great languages, some worthy of being saved and others not. While all constitute an invaluable part of humanity's intangible cultural heritage, they have a dangerous tendency to melt like snow in the sun. Half of the world's 6000 languages are threatened with extinction and an average language dies every two weeks! In France, twenty-six languages are endangered because they are classified as "seriously in danger" by UNESCO. There is an urgent need to save them because languages "growing" even more slowly than trees: the languages of today are, for the most part, thousands of years old. Like culinary or musical expressions, languages are living cultural phenomena. They offer a vision and knowledge of the world that is often unique and precious. Linguistic diversity is certainly a wealth, but a wealth threatened, threatened by evils similar to those affecting our natural environment. The globalization of trade, imperialism of dominant cultures, accelerated urbanization all contribute to the danger of languages. Thus, while it is widely recognized that the degradation of the natural environment leads to a loss of cultural and linguistic diversity, symmetrically, new studies suggest that the disappearance of languages also has a negative impact on the conservation of biodiversity. Local communities have developed complex classification systems for the natural world that reflect a deep understanding of their local environment. This knowledge of the environment is integrated into vernacular names, oral traditions and taxonomy, and can disappear when a community begins to speak another language. However, France is rich, so rich in its linguistic diversity that it is the country of Western Europe with the most languages. We must regard this diversity as a true heritage and use all appropriate means for its protection. This is the primary meaning of the bill proposed by our colleague Paul Molac – to whom one can recognize the consistency in his fight. Let us remember that France is still one of the only countries in Europe where regional languages do not benefit from effective protection and promotion measures to ensure their sustainability. It is one of the last States not to have ratified the European Charter for Regional Languages. Why, then,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u409	Because it's useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u410	... while ratification is mandatory for any country wishing to join the Union? Look for the mistake. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Following the adoption in 2008 of article 75-1 of the Constitution recognizing regional languages, we can consider them, as well as the French language, an essential part of our heritage. As such, they must benefit from conservation and knowledge policies, as well as real estate or movable assets, and be promoted for the benefit of future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u411	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u412	If a heritage is protected, it is mainly so that it can be passed on. This transmission involves a cross-cutting policy of the State and local authorities and concerns, in addition to the heritage, areas as diverse as education, signage, the media, toponymy or civil status acts – as illustrated by the upuesque story of this Breton baby who has been banned from using the tilde of his first name. With the rapporteur, we will propose that you further strengthen the provisions of the text under discussion, in contrast to the majority whose abandonment, in committee, has led to the abolition of all measures relating to education. At the very moment when the application of the reform of the baccalaureate has drastically reduced the number of students enrolled in regional language courses in high school, we fear that this will send a very bad signal. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Minister, I call on you to take a real step forward: we must adopt a bill that is sufficiently ambitious to ensure that our country finally stands up and saves the languages that make up our common heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Marc Le Fur and Patrick Hetzel also applaud]] Mr Minister, I hope I have not disturbed you by my remarks, but we really hope that the central state and its institutions will not be opposed to the desire to recognise regional traditions, culture and languages that are also part of France's identity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u413	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u414	Before coming to the objectives of this text, consider what already exists to protect the important heritage of regional languages and cultures in France. This does not pose any problem to the Jacobin I am – I do not forget that the Jacobin club was first named "Breton club" because it had been founded by MPs from this region –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u415	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u416	... a supporter of the United and indivisible Republic, to recognize the importance of this heritage and to want to protect it. This makes us all attached, I suppose, to the observance of the order of Villers-Cotterêts, which established French as the language of the kingdom, which allowed everyone to defend themselves, to testify, to be tried and to be understood by others. However, I cannot accept the premise that these regional languages and cultures would be threatened by Parisian centralism, an exacerbated pseudo-Jacobinism that would crush all linguistic diversity in our country. No! Regional languages and cultures are already well protected in France, and that is happy. Since the 1950s, we have had protective legislation. The Act of 11 January 1951 on the teaching of local languages and dialects officially authorized and promoted the learning of the regional languages of France in public education. These included Basque, Breton, Catalan and Occitan, followed by Corsican, Tahitian and several Melanesian languages. Since 1970, all students who wish to do so can, as an option, take an examination in these languages at the baccalaureate. The Act of 4 August 1994 on the use of the French language, known as the Toubon Act, confirmed this favourable legal framework, and, with the Act of 22 January 2002, Lionel Jospin, then Prime Minister, allowed particularly important means to be devoted to the teaching of the Corsican language. The most recent law of 8 July 2013 on guidance and programming for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic allows for the enrolment of a pupil in a public or private school under contract of another municipality where the municipality of residence does not offer regional language instruction. Finally, article 75 (1) of the Constitution provides that "regional languages belong to the heritage of France. » The State has contributed, in connection with the local authorities which requested it, to making possible bilingual road signs, which now exist in countless communes in France without any problem whatsoever or anyone seeking to call them into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u417	He says the same thing as the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u418	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Smile]] If, for once, the minister says something intelligent, as much as recognize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u419	[[Same movements]] Take your card to LREM!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u420	In addition, many regions promote the development of regional cultures and languages. Nothing in the current legal framework or in practice is likely to hinder their practice and transmission. So what should they be protected from, as this text invites us to do? No law or the French state, which does not threaten them in any way! Would it be the evolution and aging of their various speakers? Maybe. However, it would at least be presumptuous to think of being able to influence the passage of time upon us. In any case, the means must be sought elsewhere than in the law. Therefore, it seems to me that the threat to regional languages and cultures is chimera, and that there is therefore no reason to protect them more than they are today. The aim of this text is not the protection, but the promotion – probably excessive – of certain languages compared to others. If it is good for children to be able to learn a regional language at school, it would not be a good thing to do so if they could not have access to other foreign languages. This could happen if regional languages were subsidized and their teaching was compulsory under agreements between the State and the regions concerned. It is very interesting to be able to learn Breton, Occitan, Corsican, Tahitian or Basque, but it is also very interesting to be able to learn other modern languages: Arabic, which is the most spoken minority language in Île-de-France, Russian, Portuguese, Chinese, Japanese, Hungarian, as well as English, Spanish, Italian or German, which are already relatively widespread in teaching in France. In many departments, what is lacking is not the teaching of regional languages, which no one really demands, but the teaching of French, especially for the 60,000 allophone students. We can only support policies for the preservation of linguistic heritage, but they suffer, as in so many other areas, from fiscal austerity policies that "get meagre" of all cultural and heritage policies. However, we are not in favour of policies that seek to lead to a break in equality between one language and another. We are not in favour of public subsidies to out-of-contract private schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u421	We're back to democratic centralism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u422	That is why I do not think that we should give in to these proposals at best incantatory, and at least useless, to protect languages that are not threatened by the law. What must be protected, on the contrary, is the unity and indivisibility of the nation, the freedom to choose the teaching of a regional language or another living language, the equal treatment of different languages, and the maintenance of French as the only official language, a condition for the understanding of all, without which no fraternity is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u423	This speech dates back a bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u424	Wealth is diversity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u425	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u426	I will be frank: I am replacing our colleague Moetai Brotherson, elected from French Polynesia, whose speech I will deliver...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u427	[[Smile]] In French, not Polynesian?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u428	Yes, in French and without flower necklace! Dear Paul Molac, we all know your attachment to your beautiful region, Brittany. This territory has its own history; I was almost going to say he had his own culture. Section 1 of your bill aims to ensure that the State participates in the promotion of the French language and regional languages. The same requirement would apply to local and regional authorities. If, for some, the languages of which they are speakers are more vernacular than regional, we understand the spirit of this proposal which is explained from the metropolis. It seems essential that the same institutions that were once able to participate in the oppression of what was then perceived as mere patois, now serve to rehabilitate languages that UNESCO has shown are now threatened. Article 2 includes all regional languages in the category of national treasures. I repeat that it is essential to appeal to the State to ensure the preservation of regional languages. But with this proposal, the rapporteur also highlights the weakness of the provisions for defining the status of regional languages. Let us take this opportunity to state that it is very regrettable that France has not ratified the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, which defines certain concepts – such as the geographical area in which a language is practised – and prescribes the means of preserving regional and minority languages and provides for the promotion of exchanges between linguistic groups. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Marc Le Fur and Patrick Hetzel also applaud]] With the exception of these two articles and Article 8, all the others were deleted in committee. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore support the rapporteur's amendments to restore them. In the end, we will vote in favour of this text if its spirit is not distorted in the course of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u429	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u430	The ora na! Regional languages are dear to many of our fellow citizens. Their protection, recognition and dissemination are a major element of our national culture. Thanks to the bill we are considering, they are on the agenda and on our agendas. That is why the La République en marche Group welcomes the initiative of the Libertés et territoires Group and our colleague rapporteur, Paul Molac, in particular. The question of linguistic heritage concerns all French regions, whether hexagonal or ultramarine. Progressive recognition of its importance is crucial. It was constitutionalized by the revision of 23 July 2008, which rightly establishes regional languages as an integral part of our country's heritage. The draft law contains three titles which are all components of action: the heritage protection of regional languages, their teaching and use in signage and civil registration. With regard to the teaching of regional languages, the Government has made many advances. In this connection, I would like to thank the rapporteur because his bill is an opportunity to highlight the efforts undertaken by the Minister for National Education and Youth in this area. The law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust has thus greatly contributed to the promotion of the teaching of these languages, in particular by extending to private education the provisions relating to the taking over of the school package in case a student enrols in a school outside his municipality of residence to receive instruction in the regional language. The debates around this law have been an opportunity for you, Minister, to stress the support measures that the state offers to voluntary communities in order to develop regional language education. It should be noted that the reform of the baccalaureate also made it possible to make a better place for regional languages in the tests of this examination. We hear the need for dialogue and the demand for evolution expressed in the bill. But the reforms I have just mentioned are recent, and both the Government and the majority are looking closely at how they apply. Before supporting new measures, their effects on the teaching of regional languages should be analysed in depth. With regard to the use of regional languages in signage, the possibility given by Article 8 to make greater use of bilingualism in the public sphere is a great opportunity to show, thanks to concrete elements to which citizens will be confronted daily, that regional languages are indeed modern languages, and go beyond the old and only customary character which could be lent to them. For while they are the product of a historical heritage, regional languages are also quite lively and dynamic. This is evident in Brittany as well as in Corsica or in many hexagonal departments, but also in our ultramarine territories, where two thirds of France's regional languages are spoken – I would like to point out. Finally, with regard to the use of the diacritical signs specific to the regional languages in civil registration, we can welcome the fact that the provisions of Article 9 are, in a way, already adopted. The keeper of the seals has confirmed that a decree, which is in the process of being finalized and which will soon be transmitted to the Council of State, will authorize the registration in the civil register of surnames and forenames including regional diacritic signs. This represents a significant step forward in the recognition of regional languages, in the same way as the provisions of articles 1 and 8 of the proposed law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] For all these reasons, the Republic on the move group will support the bill in the text adopted by the committee. Mauruuru roa! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u431	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u432	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Patrick Hetzel also applauds]] I am pleased that thanks to Paul Molac's initiative, we have the opportunity to address the great and beautiful question of regional languages. This opportunity presents itself once or twice in a legislature; Let's not let her pass! Our languages represent a wealth – you recognize it, Minister – that must be preserved and disseminated. Their situation is very uneven. There are some positive elements, especially for Basque, which benefit from the proximity of a region where this language is commonly spoken. But let us not deceive ourselves: there are also difficulties; UNESCO's ranking is worrying and revealing many of the problems. Even very beautiful languages – such as the Alsatian, despite the proximity to the Germanic world – are less spoken today than they were yesterday. We must defend them, we must act, we must fight. I insist on the languages of Brittany. The gallo is, unfortunately, less and less spoken, whereas it is a wonderful language of conviviality, which I have had the chance to learn and practice during meetings. As for Breton, it is a very beautiful language that has spoken in this region for almost fifteen centuries, which has a grammar, a syntax, a vocabulary, subtleties, poets... That is all we need to keep. To the extent that family transmission is difficult, the issue of education is central. What is the state's attitude? The past, marked by the Jacobine tradition, is heavy: let us remember the terrible Abbé Grégoire who wanted to eradicate our languages, symbols, for him, of the reaction. All means have been used: violence against children and families has occurred.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u433	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u434	As the Republic apologizes for a lot of things, I would like it to apologize for that too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u435	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u436	It would be a gesture of reconciliation. All means were used, even the Toubon law, which was not at all designed to combat regional languages, but frangish and the excessive intrusion of English into our vocabulary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u437	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u438	Developments have taken place. The rapporteur has insisted on constitutional reform: I have played a modest role in it, but I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u439	Real reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u440	It is a real reform and we must recognize the role played by the then President of the Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy, in accepting this evolution which was not obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u442	"Regional languages belong to the heritage of France": it must have been the first floor of the rocket, but the following floors are lacking. The socialists, who could be expected a lot, did nothing, admit it! Minister, the Government will talk a lot about differentiation and decentralization. That's very good, we can adhere to this idea; But it must have a concrete translation in the field of languages, for example in the field of signage. Regional languages are present on local roads, in particular the departmental ones, but they still have to be introduced on national roads as well as on major public facilities. So, at Rennes station – it's distressing! – nothing is marked in the regional language. There is also a need to change the media. The Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel must play its role in opening them up to the different languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u443	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u444	And then there's the tilde case. I have noted that even the President of our Assembly has dealt with this; It's a good thing. I note even more that the Senate unanimously passed a bill – it's better than an order-in-council! – authorising the tilde. It appears on the names of members of the Government; Why would it not appear on the names of Breton children, Quimper or elsewhere? I would like to pay tribute to all those who are fighting for our teaching: the public network Diwan, which has grown significantly; the private network, also in full development. This law must be an opportunity for a genuine recognition of immersive teaching, which allows you to bathe in a linguistic universe without opposing French. [[Smile]] As far as the reform of the baccalaureate is concerned, the echoes of the field – forgive me to say so – show that it is neither excellent nor even good for regional languages. We can no longer take the Breton test as an option if we have not been taught this language, whereas it was possible before. In my time, I had passed the Breton option – because I am talking about it – without having ever followed any corresponding teaching. You probably got a better score than I did at this test, minister... Ladies and gentlemen, teaching is the heart of the subject. Paul Molac said: it is the vector of the transmission of regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u445	Please conclude, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u446	I'm finishing, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u447	But the subject is exciting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u448	Yes, exciting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u449	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Patrick Hetzel also applauds]] This law should not be emptied of the essence, i.e. provisions relating to education. Time is short: we will not have thirty-six opportunities, dear Mr.Kerlogot – for example. We must seize this opportunity to pass a beautiful and great law, which will bear the name Paul Molac and which will honor our assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u450	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u451	The 2008 constitutional revision included regional languages as part of France's heritage. Several welcome initiatives have followed, such as the recognition of bilingual French-language regional education in the law of orientation and programming for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic, in 2013, or the financial participation for the schooling of the children concerned in the public education in the law NOTRE, in 2015. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has always been committed to the defence and recognition of regional languages as part of our intangible heritage. We are therefore in favour of the provisions of the proposed law relating to greater inclusion of regional languages in the heritage code. That is why Article 1e r and Article 2 – which aims to include among national treasures goods of major interest to the national heritage from the point of view of knowledge of the French language and regional languages – seem to us to go in the right direction. We are also very much in favour of Article 8, as amended in committee, which seeks to increase the visibility of regional languages and their immersion in daily life, which guarantees their full transmission. We also voted in committee for the possibility of including diacritical signs in civil status documents. It is a provision that seems to be common sense; A decree is announced for the integration of these characters. On the other hand, with regard to the articles on the education code, rejected in committee, we will oppose the amendments aimed at restoring them to the sitting because they would pose a serious problem of implementation if we were to adopt them as they were.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u452	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u453	Articles 5 and 6, which were rejected in committee, clearly proposed that the provision of premises and the payment of the investment grant granted by the communities to private establishments of the first and second degree be conditional on the provision of bilingual education in the French and regional languages. This could put a number of departments in great difficulty. I come from a territory where there are many private schools and I do not see how a mayor could explain to his only private school that she will not benefit from the investment in computer equipment due to the lack of teaching a regional language. Will it be necessary in Mayenne to propose Breton, at the risk of awakening the susceptibility or enthusiasm of our neighbours?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u454	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u455	The gallo we share with them, but which the Mayenians probably wouldn't want to make mandatory? The mainiot, dialect rather than regional language itself? In addition, new provisions have been adopted in the law for a school of trust, with the provision of school fees when a child from a private school has to go to another municipality to learn a regional language. We believe that it is necessary to allow the measures voted on time to be implemented before they can be put into effect again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u456	That's what the colleague from France said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u457	At MODEM, we are fervent and unconditional advocates of regional languages, because the mastery of a language is always a considerable contribution for every individual – I know something about it and even allow me to wink at the old languages and the old French. We will vote on the bill in relation to aspects related to heritage and daily life, but we will not go back to the articles on the education code, which have been rejected in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u458	It's Canada Dry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u459	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u460	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u461	The text on the heritage protection of regional languages initially defined and proposed three areas of reference: heritage, with the recognition of the major heritage interest of the different languages, with the aim of benefiting from conservation and promotion policies entrusted to the State and local and regional authorities; education, with the granting of grants and premises by municipalities and their groups to private secular primary and secondary schools; public services, with the use of plurilingual signage and the use of distinctive signs of these languages in civil status documents. At the end of the committee review, the bill contains only three out of ten articles. Indeed, articles 3 to 7, which were to allow the extension of the teaching of regional languages through conventions with the State, have been abolished. Article 9 had the same fate. The only survivors are the article on the recognition and heritage protection of regional languages in France – to which Article 75-1 of the Constitution already contributed – and the article on the use of signposting and posting in the regional language in use, alongside French. We therefore find ourselves with a bill adopted in committee, but largely emptied of its substance. This text was intended to recognise, perpetuate and promote the diversity that exists within the French Republic, in particular through the teaching of regional languages in hexagonal regions such as Brittany, Corsica and Occitanie. As far as our overseas countries and territories are concerned, the committee's vote is tantamount to denying their linguistic multiculturality, which comes from Europe, Asia, Africa and America. I recall that in the Caribbean live in different Creoles: Martinique, Guadeloupéen, Guyanese or Haitian. In the Indian Ocean, the Creole is spoken at Reunion and the Shimaoré in Mayotte. In the Pacific Islands are spoken different Tahitian languages. Yes, France is multi-coloured and these languages are the symbol of its cultural blending. If we take the example of the Creoles, they represent a mixture of languages born of the colonial process, whose lexical basis is French, English, Spanish or other. In fact, there are 127 different speakers in the world, and the Caribbean Creole has some 10 million speakers. I let you imagine the importance of his teaching in cultural diplomacy and influence in the Caribbean. Regional languages are a legacy of our common history, regardless of the grievances related to our past. By proposing to generalize their teaching, it is our past that we protect, while having a look at the future. Everyone will understand that the diversity and history of our Republic live fully through these various so-called minority languages. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LT groups. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] This bill, had it been voted in extenso in committee, would have allowed us to go beyond the reservations that the Constitutional Council had expressed on the ratification of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, while proposing coherent and functional progress. Today only symbols and intentions remain. Despite this, in line with its vote in committee, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the bill. Moin ka says zot mèci.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u462	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u463	Our group is deeply committed to regional languages and cultures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u464	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u465	Openness to other languages and cultures, whether regional or foreign, is always part of a positive approach and does not call into question French as the language of the Republic – a status enshrined in article 2 of the Constitution. The learning of a language, all the more so with the demand that you make of your wishes in this text, Mr rapporteur, does not oppose the mastery of the fundamentals of the French language. All of us here know that the mastery of a language promotes plurilingualism. If, as a young child, a child has two languages, he will acquire others even more easily. Regional languages and cultures are structuring for the territories; They reflect the very essence, the history, the culture, what the ancients have passed on to us. I am thinking in particular of the ultramarines, the Bretons, the Basques, the Corsicans, the Flemishs and many others. They are also a means of strengthening intergenerational ties because, in many territories, these languages are commonly spoken by our elders. Overall, the IDU, Action and Independent Group subscribes to the main thrusts of the bill: heritage protection and the enhancement of regional languages. However, we would like to express some reservations about article 1, because it seems to us that the principles it sets out are already satisfied. We can even ask ourselves what it brings: the local authorities and the State have not waited for this text to enter into partnerships that value regional languages. The article contributes to legislative inflation, which we all regularly denounce. In contrast, Article 2 is much more interesting, since it confers national treasure on goods which contribute to the knowledge of the French language and regional languages. This arrangement provides for a subtle reconciliation between the protection of these property and the protection of the owner's rights. Article 8 secures an existing practice by incorporating into the law the possibility for local authorities to double the signposting in French of a translation into a regional language. The legal vacuum in this area allowed ambiguity and weakened municipalities wishing to develop their linguistic heritage through this. With regard to the incorporation of diacritical signs into civil registration, a decree will be issued in order to satisfy the provision of article 9 and we welcome it. In committee, we had indicated our red line on regional language learning. It concerned, in particular, immersive teaching. We regret that all the articles on the teaching of regional languages have been deleted in committee and that it has not been possible to arrive at a moderate position to strengthen this teaching. In debates on the law for a school of trust, our group had proposed that the choice of regional languages taught in schools should be left to the regions, which we consider to be an interesting step. In conclusion, our group is in favour of highlighting the local heritage. It seems essential to us that the territories be liberated by allowing local and regional authorities the freedom to value a language, a culture, a history, that is, the essence of a territory. Since the text is satisfactory as it stands, our group is addressing the debate in a favourable way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u466	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u467	Emmanuel Macron said in June 2018: "Regional languages play their part in the roots that make the regions strong. We will persevere in their teaching. » Stop Jacobinism and promote decentralization? End of language smoothing? Little tap on the muzzle of modern, inclusive writings of all kinds and back to tradition? Lovers of regional languages hoped, heartbreakingly, that concrete steps would soon be taken to ensure that our President took action from the statement. But for more than a year and a half, radio silence and disappointment. However, regional languages, even threatened ones, are not moribund, on the contrary. According to a 2013 ministerial report, six regional languages are still frequently used, not to mention the overseas languages, which are also an integral part of our cultural heritage. A legacy that we have already failed to protect in 1999 when, as I recall, France has not deigned to ratify the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, the aim of which was to protect and promote all the regional languages spoken in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u468	Yes, alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u469	At the time, the sages of the Constitutional Council believed that the promotion of regional languages was contrary to "the constitutional principles of indivisibility of the Republic, equality before the law and the uniqueness of the French people". That's all! [[Smile]] Some Gauls were still good. I am thinking in particular of the Occitan, which has been the subject of a genuine safeguard plan, if not a rescue. The least we can say is that it pays. In Béziers – to take a random example – there are no fewer than three Occitan schools, and it is these institutions that organize carnival on our streets every year. Besides, let's talk about our streets! They are indicated in both languages. Impossible not to mention the CIRDOC, the International Occitan Research and Documentation Centre that we host; known up to Japan, it offers a rich collection of more than 150,000 documents that bear witness to a thousand years of occitane creation, our beautiful culture at the origin of troubadours. This culture is honored in Béziers: every summer, during the sound and light that retraces the history of our city, the Occitan introduces the show. Thus, our colleague Paul Molac's bill falls to the fore, although I can only regret, despite our common love for regional languages, that I was unable to co-sign it. Like you, my colleague, I do not believe that regional languages are ragged patois that should be buried. On the contrary, I think that they are an integral part of our identity as a Frenchman, of our carnal relationship to our regions, to our lands; of this additional soul which, in a fractured country, can only participate in its reconciliation, not to say in its communion. Needless to say, I fully agree with your desire to affirm, as you do in Article 1, that regional languages are part of the intangible cultural heritage, of which the French language and regional languages are an essential part, and which must be able to benefit from conservation and knowledge policies. And how can we not agree with Article 2, which allows the public authorities to intervene to protect and preserve in the national territory any property which would be of major linguistic interest, be it the French language or the regional languages? The same applies to Article 3, which lays down the principle of recognition of the teaching of regional languages as an optional subject within the framework of the normal teaching schedule. I am all the more sensitive as Béziers, as I said, has three Calandreta schools that teach in Occitan to 263 kindergarten and elementary students. It is a real success that should be noted: in 2018, there were twenty-four Calandreta schools in Languedoc-Roussillon, including a college and a high school, nearly 2,000 bilingual students, a tangible sign that regional languages are alive. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] Articles 5 and 6 are intended to give more powers to the territorial authorities competent to promote our linguistic heritage. Again, I agree. It is a pity, however, that in committee, whole sections of your proposals have been removed or emptied of their substance by the majority. And of course I do not want to finish this general discussion without mentioning the three words that rhythmise every moment of our city's life, and more particularly the rugby matches: "Aqui es Besiers! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u470	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u471	[[Smile]] Colleagues, I have only noted a few historical facts. In a discussion like this, I will not attack the Republic or the French Revolution. I simply point out that the animosity towards regional languages began under the Terror, of which Barère was one of the actors. On the contrary, at the beginning of the Revolution, the Girondins were very favorable and some texts had been translated into Basque, Breton or other languages. Our comrade from France, if he is Jacobin, therefore represents the mountain trend rather than the girondine trend, which is not quite the same. It seems obvious to me that the purpose of our discussions is to foster cultural diversity and plurilingualism. This is what regional languages and French are for. I therefore do not understand why the committee has removed all the articles on education, which are at the heart of the bill. You said that what we are proposing was already possible. Yet, not everything works the way it should. One thousand nine hundred and eighty-two is the date of the first creations of bilingual classes in Brittany. That national education then had difficulty finding teachers, it seems normal; But almost forty years later, she still has difficulties. This proves that there is a more global problem and that no action has been taken to resolve it. It is on this point that we put our finger on. With regard to the reform of the baccalaureate, I receive the same echoes from the field as Mr. Le Fur. They come from Occitanie and Alsace as well as Brittany, where several demonstrations took place after some discovered that we could no longer pass Breton as a free candidate. Before, all the points obtained could be kept above the average; And that's what allowed some of my children to get a bachelor's degree. Field alerts have multiplied. Senator Maurice Antiste recently asked you about this. In the Toulouse Academy, seven high schools have abolished the courses of Occitan that existed in 2019, which represents a decrease of 16%. In fact, regional languages suffer from the multiplication of specialities, since in the long run a choice must be made between these specialties. It was in order to avoid this situation that we asked for regional languages to be put at the same level as the old languages, which would have allowed students to follow regional language teaching in addition. Added to this is the problem of arbitration between LVB – living language B – and LVC – living language C – which poisons relationships. More generally, how do you want to save linguistic heritage if regional languages are only studied and spoken by a small number of students? In Brittany, the teaching of the regional language affects 7 to 8% of an age group; It is not with this that the language will be saved. In Alsace, this figure is 12 to 14%, which is not enough either. In the Basque Country, it is around 40%: there we will get there. In Corsica, it is almost 50%: we will also make it. If I have offered to generalize the offer of education, it is because it is the nerve of war. That is how we will preserve our heritage. Mr Pancher, you mentioned biodiversity and glottodiversity. You also mentioned the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which the Council of Europe is asking France to ratify. For now, this injunction is down.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u472	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u473	In response to Mr Peu, I note, ladies and gentlemen, that you are all in agreement – with the exception, perhaps, of France, which is inconclusive – to support regional languages. I stress once again the question of education, which seems to me to be particularly important. Of course, I know your commitment on the matter, Mr. Le Fur. Mr Thierry Benoit is also here in this assemblage and I am sure that i prech bin galo o mê des fês, you seehle bin...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u474	Pardi!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u475	Yes, in Brittany, we have the peculiarity of having two languages, and I am a speaker of the Gallo as well as Breton. That's one of my peculiarities. Mrs Manin, you rightly noticed that the text had been emptied of its substance. Mrs Descamps, Article 1 is used to give a declination to Article 75-1 of the Constitution, which I believe is indispensable. Indeed, an annoying problem with regional languages is that when something is not explicitly allowed, it is defended. I will give you an example: the Finistère department and the Morbihan department have been doing bilingual signage in Breton and French for more than twenty years, but this bilingual display has just been extended to national roads. What have we been told so far? "It's not possible. The first thing the SNCF told us about the display in the stations was: "it's not possible", "it can't be done", "it's contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution", "it's contrary to that"... This is the opposite of the normal order of things in a democracy, where anything that is not defended is allowed. For regional languages, on the contrary, it must be allowed in order not to be defended. One of the problems is that we find it difficult to develop coherent policies because at some point one of the players is opposed to the measures advocated. This situation leads some advocates of regional languages to be assertive or even revancist, which is not my case. Mrs Bannier, we have solved the problem that you mentioned, with regard to contractual establishments: they will be able to continue to receive subsidies, since an amendment to Article 6, which I have tabled, provides that they will be able "without prejudice to Articles L. 151-4, L. 442-16 and L. 442-17" of the Education Code, to obtain departments or regions, premises and an investment subsidy, including for computer science.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u476	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u477	I appreciate the tone that you have taken, Mr rapporteur, by demonstrating, in your remarks, that what you are proposing and what we are defending is not a matter of opposing visions – several speakers have stressed this, in particular those of the Republic on the move and of the Democratic and Related Movement. A certain unity of view is therefore made possible today. At the beginning of my statement, I wished to state that there is no reason to present your proposal as opposed to the will of the central government, namely the Government, which is not against regional languages. I want to rule out this fiction: two camps are not opposed, that of the defenders of regional languages and the central power, since we are the defenders of regional languages. However, I consider that the current legislative framework allows for desirable developments. Most of the problems that you have mentioned do not fall within the scope of an amendment to the law. However, the measures you are proposing must be taken into account: that is why we are all here today. I would like to commend the interesting work that has been done in committee on the heritage issue: it could be kept on the basis of the discussions that we will have. I hope that this evening we will succeed in keeping this tone, that is not to say to pretend to oppose us, when we have a common objective: the promotion of regional languages without contradiction with the promotion of the French language, in the context of the promotion of diversity. With regard to the issues that you have raised, relating to the teaching of regional languages, I repeat: the solution does not lie in legislative developments. I am, therefore, very open to carrying out regular reviews of the number of pupils who choose to teach a regional language, in order to deal with the difficulties at the root. The same applies to the training of teachers, which you mentioned: they do not fall within the legislative framework. I affirm that specialty education, which is an important innovation in the reform of the baccalaureate, will serve the training of future regional language teachers. During the discussion of the text, it will be possible to be constructive, be it the articles that may be adopted or the general tone of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u478	[[Smile]] I invite my colleagues, when they do incises in the regional language, to deliver the translation, so that everyone can benefit from it. Thus, "Thank you vill mòl" means "thank you very much" in my village.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u479	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u480	This reminder is based on Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we begin our consideration of the amendments, I would like to point out a recurring problem, which does not concern only this text: that of the inadmissibility of amendments under Articles 40 and 41 of the Constitution. Since we must respect these two articles, we are drafting amendments providing for the use of experimental devices. These amendments are now systematically rejected, on the pretext that they would render them inadmissible. This pretext, however, is contrary to article 37 (1) of the Constitution, which provides for such experiments. Mr President, in order to ensure the serenity of our debates, the criteria used for the admissibility of the amendments should be reviewed. Certainly, every assembly is sovereign. However, I have compared our situation with that of the Senate: it does not use the same criteria, which favours a freer debate. While we are responsible Members, we are close to what it would be legitimate to call censorship. I do not think it is a good policy to guarantee these calm debates which, moreover, called for the Minister at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u481	It does not seem to me that amendments to this text have been rejected under Rule 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u482	Not this time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u483	They may have been so under Article 40, as well as under Article 45, on the "link, even indirect" of any amendment to the text. Anyway, I took note of your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u484	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u485	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u486	On the eve of our group's consideration of this bill, 128 academics and researchers published a forum in Le Monde, calling for "opening the windows of diversity" for regional languages, "in urgent danger". However, we have the impression that the Government and its majority are rather content to mix them up, as the bill has, unfortunately, been emptied of its substance. Of the nine initial articles, you wish to retain only two and, above all, all the measures concerning the teaching of regional languages, the main vector for the transmission of this still alive heritage, have been abolished, which falls particularly badly, Mr Minister, since, for months, I have been questioned by the associations of teachers of Occitan on the negative consequences of the reform of the baccalaureate on the teaching of regional languages in high school. The 128 signatories of this forum believe that the fragile progress that has prevailed over the past fifty years has been undermined by the creation of an area of specialization relating to hyperspecialized regional languages. The State deliberately hit all the languages for which the populations concerned had arduously accumulated some gains. In high schools throughout the country, especially in the Occitan region, the drop in enrolment is massive. It is in addition to the other difficulties that regional languages face, because of the lack of genuine recognition and protection in our law. This was the case with the bilingual city entrance signs, which were challenged in court; It is with the diacritical signs of regional languages, which are not recognized in civil status. For example, since the Catalan language provides sharp accents on several vowels, first names have been banned. More than a decree, whose implementing rules remain unclear, it is necessary to recognize this right in the law. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u487	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u488	Minister, you are right to wish for a calm debate. However, as Mrs Pinel pointed out at the moment, it would still not be necessary for a bill, initially composed of nine articles, to have only two of them at the end of the commission's work: in order to promote appeasement, it is possible to do better! This is always the logic of "at the same time": the discourse of appeasement is not followed by acts. We would like the majority to take responsibility, at some point, by putting its actions in line with its speech. Unfortunately, this is not always the case with regional languages. You have stated in the rostrum, Minister, that applications for regional language classes are systematically granted. No, it's more complicated than that. I invite you to come to Alsace to see that these requests for openings are not systematically granted. I can provide you with elements that are in line with my remarks. You will therefore need to change the instructions you send to the appropriate rectors. As you know, regional languages demand much more important measures than those already taken. We had this debate during the examination of the law that you have defended: it is true that you are making efforts, which I would like to commend, with regard to the means that you have decided to devote to the promotion of regional languages. However, we need to go much further, because, for example, in Alsace, we are seeing an inexorable decline in the number of speakers. Your efforts in terms of resources for regional languages will not suffice to stem this phenomenon. We will therefore defend amendments that will enable local and regional authorities to engage more closely with the state by changing the package so that regional languages are taken into account more. We are fully aware that the State cannot be alone in making efforts: it must also enable local and regional authorities to commit themselves. We feel, however, that the State is hesitant to go in this direction. We would like you to make it clear to us that you are prepared to go very far with the local and regional authorities to, I repeat, change the gap in the promotion of regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u489	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u490	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to Paul Molac's work, which allows us to address this evening again the question of regional languages in the Chamber. This subject is sensitive: it sometimes arouses passions, like last week, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, in which the mere fact of speaking a regional language may have provoked a very strong anger. Defending regional languages, if only with our colleagues, still makes sense. So I will not comment on the number of Members here this evening: the task has not yet been completed, to convince them of the interest of the regional languages. If we have found it useful to approve a new wording of Article 1, it is because, while measuring its intention, we have an obligation to ensure that the existing legal framework is respected. This issue – biodiversity has been raised – refers to global issues: all over the world, regional languages are in decline. Nevertheless, UNESCO remains a focal point, which adopted in 2003 the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage. France, which has been a State party since 2006, translated this concept of intangible cultural heritage into the Heritage Code in 2016 with reference to the international legal instrument. Language is therefore regarded as a vector of this intangible cultural heritage, but only as a vector of tradition and oral expression. Syntax, grammar and lexicon, which are the essence of the language, are not integrated into the convention parameters. That is why, rather than a dry rejection of the article, we wanted a new wording allowing us to continue the reflection in a positive way, in order to work in the right direction. I plead, in my personal capacity, for a recommendation of the report submitted in 2013 to Mrs Aurélie Filippetti, then Minister of Culture and Communication, entitled "Redefining a public policy in favour of regional languages and internal linguistic plurality". The report recommends, on page 54, "strengthening the inter-ministerial organization and action of the State". Indeed, the rapporteur, as many as four ministries are involved in your bill, which reflects the cross-cutting nature of the issues at stake. In 1996, a General Delegation for the French Language was established; In 2001, it expanded "to the languages of France" to become the DGLFLF. I call for the creation, in the long term, of interdepartmental coordination to address all issues in a cross-cutting manner. Article 1 emphasises the necessary development of relations between the State and local and regional authorities, which contribute to the teaching, protection, dissemination and promotion of regional languages. I wanted to defend this article, which reflects a desire for dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u491	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1142.u492	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law on the protection and promotion of the heritage of regional languages. The meeting is adjourned.
