ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the 2021 finance bill (No. 3360, 3399). Last night, the Assembly continued to discuss the articles of the bill. This morning we are considering articles 3 and 4, previously reserved at the request of the Government, as well as amendments to the additional article after these articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u2	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u3	I would like briefly to explain the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats on Article 3 and to present the amendments that we have tabled. We are, of course, very much in favour of reducing production taxes. In committee, we proposed an alternative to the Government's solution: to remove the CFE – business land assessment – and to transfer the CVAE – business value added assessment – to the municipal block, without affecting the TFPB – property tax on built properties. This different mechanism would also lead to the reduction of production taxes, in line with the Government's wishes. Our scheme pursues a threefold objective: to broaden the reduction of production taxes, with the abolition of the CFE, and to reach the whole territory, but also to open the debate on the financial and fiscal reform of the communities, especially the communal bloc. For the past two years, we have been changing the taxes they collect, and it is becoming necessary to go further in this discussion. I would like to refer to this in the preamble, while stressing that the Dem Group is in favour of a reduction in production taxes. We will therefore vote on Article 3 but would like to discuss the alternative we are proposing, and our objectives: a reduction in production taxes and the opening of discussions on the recasting of local taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u4	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u5	The "La République en marche" group is of course also in favour of the reduction of production taxes, which allows France to move closer to European standards. The territories will be the first to benefit from the reindustrialization and the reduction in business relocations that I hope will result from this measure. The subject that matters to me, and which, no doubt, will drive our debates, is that of the compensation that will be given to local and regional authorities. However, it appears from the reading of Articles 3 and 4 that this compensation will be made to the euro at the time of the transfer in 2021 and through a resource whose dynamics are very close to current resources, which is likely to reassure the communities. They are therefore highly protected and will benefit from the reindustrialization of their territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u6	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u7	I am going to explain to you the opinion of the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group on the reduction of production taxes. As I have already had the opportunity to say during the general discussion, we consider that it remains to be demonstrated that this measure, which has been requested for a long time by professional trade unions, in particular those of employers, the MEDEF – Mouvement des entreprises de France – and the AFEP – Association française des entreprises privés – will promote long-term competitiveness as it is supposed to. This measure is so focused on large companies that it will not have the macroeconomic effect promised to us at all. I would remind you that half of the companies that pay the CVAE today do so up to the minimum contribution, so that they will each recover EUR 125 per year. I do not see how such aid can help to maintain or create jobs. The figures show that 1.66% of companies will receive 66% of the gains from the decline in the AECV: this gift voucher will be made to them and will be concentrated on large and medium-sized companies. In presenting these figures, the Government states that 30 per cent of the earnings will go to SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – 30 per cent to mid-sized enterprises – and 30 per cent to large enterprises. But each of these categories does not have the same number of companies at all! The truth is that 1.66% of them will receive 66% of the 7.5 billion euros in annual earnings. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on several benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will propose amendments to recalibrate the CVAE to ensure that multinationals, especially those with more than EUR 1.5 billion in turnover, do not benefit from the decline in the CVAE. The corresponding amounts can thus be redistributed at the level of SMEs and TPEs, which are absent from the recovery plan. The new form of containment that has been introduced these days will have an impact on many trades among artisans and traders. However, it is not the decline in the CVAE that will help them, since in France, companies with less than EUR 500,000 in turnover are not liable for this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u8	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u9	Breaks: that's what President Macron promised us this spring – this spring we found ourselves naked, without masks, without blouses, without over-blouses for caregivers, with a shortage of medicines, a lack of breathers and more industry to produce them in an emergency, all textile and chemical factories having been sent to the other side of the world. In the midst of a crisis, the Martial Head of State learned a lesson: "Delegating our food, our protection, our ability to treat, our living environment to others is a madness. We must regain control of it [...] The next few weeks and months will require decisions to break it. I'll take care of them. » That's the context. What break-up decisions do you propose to us today in this budget? The decrease from 3% to 2% of the territorial economic contribution – CET – and the contribution on the value added of enterprises. Hello, breakup! Is that what you're pretending to relocate with? It's really like we're idiots! Globalization is a raging monster that, for thirty years, has sent our clothes, our food, our medicines to the other end of the ocean or the continent, and what do you answer? We're gonna cut taxes! Hat the breakup, bravo! You're really up to the stakes! What are the French waiting for now? Protectionism. Protections – for their jobs, for health and for the planet. Border taxes, customs barriers and import quotas. With integralist free trade, you have liberated the companies that, from Bridgestone to Sanofi, from Amazon to Monsanto, crush everything in their way. You should get them back in chains, coerce them, bring them back into common law. These are the expected break-up decisions. But you won't! Instead, today you deliver them new gifts, more and more gifts. Because you are the accomplices, Minister: you are the accomplices of Amazon, Bridgestone and Sanofi! I say it because I think so: with this budget, you serve these firms, you do not serve France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u10	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u11	Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and related group will not vote for sections 3 and 4 of this finance bill – PLF. No surprise either, we will propose to you to delete Article 3, which organizes a reduction in production taxes. The crisis has a good back, Minister, because you have been arguing for the reduction of production taxes for two years. So it is not the crisis that leads you to propose this measure, which is an old blush that you have long had. The benefit of this measure will be very concentrated, as Émilie Cariou said. In addition, it represents a loss of EUR 10 billion for state funds, i.e. 10 billion less for our public services. A moment will come when we will have to worry about what will remain in the coffers to finance our public services, while, on all the benches, including in front of me, we ask for more police officers, more staff in our hospitals, more gendarmes! All this has a cost! I wouldn't want you to tell us that once you cut all these production taxes and dry up the government's revenues, you can't finance public services anymore. We will have to finance our social model, which, despite everything and whatever some say, is a very good model: it has made it possible to finance partial unemployment, enabled households to resist, allowed aid to be paid to small and large enterprises, allowed to go through the crisis. Look at the production taxes and the nature of the companies that are paying the ACV today, and you will see that its reduction is not a good solution. Last argument, because my time is limited, these production taxes are intended for the budgets of local authorities. I hear that their decline will be compensated: certainly, but until when? What one finance law can do, another can undo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u12	We have to cut taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u13	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] With the drop in the ACV and local taxes – including the housing tax – that you have started since the beginning of the quinquennium, local authorities will soon no longer need elected officials, only officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u14	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u15	The gradual abolition of production taxes is an imperative, which the Republican Group has been demanding for several years. The Government integrates it into the recovery plan, but in reality it does not necessarily fall under it: it is a structural measure that could be completely disconnected from it. However, you stop in the middle of the ford. First, you only remove half of the ACVAE. At the same time, you leave local communities in difficulty because, after removing the housing tax, you are now removing some of the production taxes, which raises the underlying issue of how communities function and their autonomy. A comprehensive reform of local taxation should be undertaken in order to clarify the landscape and reassure communities of the resources they have to operate. This is what the Republican Group is proposing: a comprehensive reform of local taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u16	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u17	For my part, I will not criticise the Government's willingness to reduce the gap in production taxes between France and the major countries around it, with which it is competing. This gap amounts to 40 to 45 billion euros and we are proposed to reduce it by 10 billion euros: this is in the right direction. Two remarks, however. First of all, I would like to point out that the aim is to improve the competitiveness of our industry. This is what you do by halving the CFE and the TFPB, on industrial buildings. But you're also cutting CSVAE by half, up to $7.25 billion. However, according to the impact assessment, about 20% – there are two discordant figures – of the corresponding gains will benefit the industry. Why didn't you do the opposite? Why didn't you completely eliminate the CFE and the TFPB on industrial buildings, for a gain of 6.4 or 6.5 billion instead of 3.2, and in parallel limited the decline of the CSVAE? This would seem more interesting to me for the competitiveness of French industry. My second point is with one of Mrs Louwagie's. For almost 28 years I have been a Member of Parliament, I have been defending the fiscal autonomy of local authorities. But on this point you, like your predecessors, do nothing but tinker, without any overall vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u18	Come on, Monsieur de Courson, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u19	There are no 36000 solutions! We have worked on these issues for years, Minister: we must equip the departments with a share of CSG – a widespread social contribution – which would be consistent with their competences, and perhaps even do the same for the regions, through an equalization system. That's what's missing! Today, we're tinkering. You do not realize that, as your predecessors have done for twenty-five or thirty years, you will totally destroy local tax autonomy, and in the long run kill local democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u20	My goal is less concentration of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u21	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u22	I would like to respond to a few points that you raised in this discussion that go far beyond the scope of Article 3. My answers will shed light on my subsequent positions on many amendments, to which I will be able to respond more quickly. There are actually two major issues that we have discussed in committee. First, do we need a new tool to improve the competitiveness of our companies in the face of the crisis? And if so, which one? Secondly, during the crisis, should large companies, medium-sized enterprises, SMEs and TPEs be pitted against each other? And if so, can we consider, as Mrs Cariou has done since the beginning of the examination of the text, that the measures in Articles 3 and 4 will only benefit the main accounts? This debate really deserves to be clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u23	[[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] As far as competitiveness is concerned, there is a French specificity which undermines the ability of our companies, regardless of their size or sector of activity, to create jobs in France and, above all, to relocate, after years or even decades of relocation. On average, production taxes account for 4% of value added in France. To give you an order of magnitude, they represent only 0.3% in Germany – you who like to compare us so much to this country! They are about 1.5% in the Netherlands, and 2% in Spain and Italy, twice as much as we are! We are the only country with such a level of production taxes. It is not very complicated to understand that when we want to relocate, it puts a bag of stones on our backs. A comparison seems even more relevant: between 2007 and 2017, the growth of GDP – gross domestic product – French was 14%, and that of production taxes was 20%. In ten years since the last crisis, production taxes have risen faster than GDP: not only are we less competitive than our neighbours, but the gap is widening! It is absolutely necessary to correct the shot. This is the objective of Articles 3 and 4: it is not a matter of making me happy which company or large company, but of keeping us up to date, so that we can keep the jobs in our country. This is absolutely essential. These two sections may be the most important of all of the finance bill. As far as the size of companies is concerned, Mrs Cariou, as I had committed myself to doing, I have done a job since our committee meetings. You will find a summary, on page 103 of Volume 1 of my report, of all the measures in the recovery plan that benefit TPEs and SMEs. You will see that the three-quarters of the EUR 10 billion allocated in Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law, i.e. 7.5 billion, benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. Look at the numbers, they're in my report. It is therefore wrong to say that the reduction in production taxes benefits only large companies; Of course, they also benefit – and even more, in value, which is logical because a large company pays more tax! But in my opinion it would be guilty, and a gross strategic mistake, to exclude large companies, because they are the ones that will create positive externalities in our country, relocating jobs, creating subcontracting, giving activity to SMEs in the territory. It is therefore the whole of the companies that must be involved. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This decline is therefore a salutary and necessary competitiveness measure in the context of recovery. If you want the substance of my thought, we could even have decided it before. And it is necessary to make all companies benefit from it, because in times of recovery, it is not appropriate to oppose companies according to their size, as if there were on the one hand big bad women and on the other the nice little ones: for the recovery, we need all the job creators in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u24	Look at the general tax code!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u25	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u26	[[Rites and exclamations on FI banks]] I think the great merit of the majority is to know where it is going.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u27	In the wall! In the ravine! You have a sense of humor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u28	When I hear the enormous confusion in this House, it is a source of pride for all of us to know how to hold an economic direction, not to change it every four morning, and to achieve results. Today, as since the first day of the economic crisis, we want massive support for the most affected sectors. I believe that everyone – entrepreneurs, SMEs, TPEs, artisans, traders, independents – is aware that we are at their side in this crisis. As the President of the Republic said last night, we will continue to do so and, if necessary, we will strengthen the arrangements, we will be even more present for companies affected by the economic crisis, victims of the health crisis. Companies in the hospitality and catering sector, cafes, cultural, event, sports companies: if they need us more, we will be even more close to them. But, at the same time, we want to prepare the future of the French, because it is now being played. At the end of the crisis, there will be winners and losers; nations, continents will emerge stronger, others weaker. We want France to be stronger, and that is why the reduction of production taxes is an absolute imperative. All those who believe in industry, relocation, industrial recovery in our country should be committed to supporting this decline. Mr Ruffin, you have made great statements, but, in addition to the facts, the figures are stubborn. With production taxes accounting for 3.7% of the costs of industrial enterprises, while they are only 0.9% in the other European countries, i.e. four times less, there is no chance of successful industrial relocation. If we want to succeed, if we want to have factories, workers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u29	It's true that your record is extraordinary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u30	... if we want to see the emergence of new industrial sectors in hydrogen, transport, telecommunications, quantum computing, microprocessors, we must empower our industrial enterprises to develop. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and some benches of the Dem group]] You accuse us, Mr Ruffin, of serving large companies rather than France: that is not true. With this drop in production taxes, we serve the workers. We serve industries, businesses. We serve Ascoval and Arc International, in the North, we serve the aeronautics and naval construction. We serve the Arve Valley and the decolleting sector, which all factories and SMEs have been demanding for years a reduction in production taxes. Then I will not let you say, Mr François Ruffin, that we serve big companies and not France! We serve France, French industry and French workers. These are your speeches, Mr Ruffin, the great statements made by France insoubted without looking at the figures,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u31	We'll give you some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u32	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ...the great accusations made without looking at the economic realities that have led largely to the relocation, the bleeding of industry in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u33	Really? You've been a minister for twenty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u34	Calling for relocation is not enough: to do so, you have to make courageous decisions, which we have been doing for several years. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For 15 years, the only majority that has managed to relocate industrial jobs in France is ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u35	That's not true! What you're saying is wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u36	And that's because we had the courage to make the necessary decisions. Mrs Pires Beaune, why do you systematically oppose the defence of public service and industrial enterprises?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u37	Not systematically!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u38	Why say supporting industries will weaken public services, and vice versa? Mrs Pires Beaune, it is not to you that I will learn that public services need means to finance themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u39	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u40	In order for the public services to turn around and we can pay the civil servants, it is necessary for some to pay taxes! I'm sorry to recall this evidence, but to have competitive and profitable companies is to recover corporate taxes, and therefore to have tax revenues to operate public services that cannot be financed on their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u42	It is therefore in our interest to reduce production taxes so that our industrial enterprises become more profitable, allowing us to finance public services. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] I recall that with the Ségur de la santé, we have undertaken a reform of the hospital,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u43	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u44	They're on strike today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] ... and in particular a re-evaluation of the health professions and the salaries of professionals in the sector as it had not been done in years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u46	Where are the rea seats?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u47	It can always be said that it is not enough, that it is not enough; But at least we did. Mrs Cariou, with regard to the concentration of production taxes, the figures are also stubborn, and your comments are incorrect. Let us look at the consequences of the fall in production taxes as it is committed: 30% of the relief will benefit SMEs, which, however, represent only 25% of the added value of our country: this means that, in comparison, they will benefit more. Middle-sized companies will benefit from 40 per cent of the tax relief, while they also represent only 25 per cent of the value added of our country. They will therefore also benefit from the fall in production taxes. So, what do we want? In this House, I heard fifty times that our SMEs were too small, that they had to grow, that we had to have a more powerful, stronger middle-sized business fabric. That's exactly what we're doing! I repeat, the majority has the merit of being consistent and of knowing where they want to go. In this case, we want SMEs to grow, to be more profitable, to become middle-sized enterprises. This is exactly the strategic and economic objective of reducing production taxes. The decline is organised around three main principles. The first, which I mentioned earlier, is to give priority to industrial enterprises. Indeed, it is they who need to regain competitiveness and profitability. The second principle, which I repeat for Mrs Cariou and several other parliamentarians, is that SMEs and ITEs benefit more from the decline than they actually bring to our nation in terms of added value. Indeed, many of the measures taken in the name of the revival in the context of the finance bill will go mainly to small and medium-sized enterprises. The third principle, I say to Charles de Courson, is the complete compensation of the declines in the revenue of the local authorities. We chose not to abolish the C3S – a social contribution of solidarity of societies – because it would have benefited the financial sector mainly, with only indirect effects on the industrial sector. On the contrary, we have chosen to lower production taxes that directly affect industries. In agreement with the local authorities, we will fully compensate for this decline. With regard to the abolition of the regional share of the CVAE, it will be offset by the allocation of a fraction of VAT revenue, with the agreement of the representatives of the regions and the President of the Association des régions de France, which the Prime Minister has received on several occasions. The reduction in property taxes on industrial premises will also be offset by municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. Their interests will be preserved because, together with Olivier Dussopt, we have ensured that the municipalities retain their freedom to set rates. For, Mr de Courson, we absolutely do not want to encroach on the free administration of local and regional authorities! On the contrary, they will retain the freedom to set their rates. The rental value, which is the basis of property taxes on industrial premises, will be halved, but the municipalities will still be able to vary the rate of property taxes. Therefore, you will admit that we are not encroaching on the free administration of local authorities. These are the few thoughts that I wanted to present to you on the reduction of production taxes, which is obviously one of the major subjects of the finance bill and one of the structuring elements of the French recovery plan. In the difficult circumstances we face, it is essential to achieve an immediate response to the crisis and to prepare for the future of our economic and industrial sectors. I know that it would be easier to say that we are spending all the money available today on an immediate response to the crisis and the immediate support of the French, but that would not be responsible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and several benches of the Dem group]] It is the honor of the majority to have the courage to think both about the crisis and the aftermath of the crisis, about what is happening now but also what will happen tomorrow; to think about the generations that are working today, but also about those who will work tomorrow and want businesses, factories, economic activity throughout the territory. By committing the reduction of production taxes, that's what you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u48	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u49	Mr Minister, allow me to react to your remarks: the figures are indeed stubborn, and we do not have the same reading. You make 10 billion euros of gifts to businesses. Of this sum, 6.6 billion will benefit 9220 FTEs and large companies, while the remaining 567000 FTEs and SMEs will share the remaining 3.5 billion. These figures are at the disposal of all: you have communicated them to us. The big ones will touch big, the little ones will touch little, very little! You say that the measures you have taken over the last two years in favour of capital prevent relocations and promote relocations. That's not true, Minister! Why, by the end of the year, will Renault build the electric Dacia Spring in China, to import it into France? Why is Renault going to build the electric Twingo in Slovenia, and then import it into France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u50	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u51	Why aren't these small electric vehicles produced in France, despite all the gifts you make? Why will Smart production leave Hambach for China? And Bridgestone! Is it normal for them to benefit from your reduction in production taxes, automatically, even if they shut down the Bethune plant, even if they are firing? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It is at this moment that these things are decided. Should we unconditionally give new gifts to companies when they relocate, when they refuse to relocate, when they lease – as to Renault, who has taken advantage of all the advantages you have given to companies since the beginning of the quinquennium?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u52	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 413, 1899 and 2350, to delete Article 3. I would point out that these amendments have been the subject of a request for a public vote by the Socialist and related groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 413.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u53	Once again, Minister, you fall back on the mistake of believing that our difference with Germany, which is always presented as the absolute reference, but also often as a rival and not a partner, is reduced to production taxation. As if the Germans' technological culture, their upscale industrial strategy, their long-term financing of industrial investment, or their co-management of companies with the social partners, co-management which you refuse, were not to blame. I repeat, taxation alone does not determine the competitiveness of companies or their choice of relocation. The Netherlands, Denmark and Finland have a much higher level of taxation than France; However, they are more productive than we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u55	Other countries impose less on companies than we do and are less competitive. There is therefore no golden rule in this area. Above all, this general decline in production taxes is in total contradiction with the ecological objective that you mention on all trays: it is not subject to any environmental conditions, nor to any conditions whatsoever, moreover. Finally, with regard to the gifts you give to businesses to the detriment of our communities, I would like to point out that they are still paying dearly today the abolition of the business tax, which had been the subject of a memorable battle between us and you, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u56	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1899.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u57	One could laugh if the time was less serious: Mr General, you are derogating from your rule of fiscal stability,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u58	I'll fix it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u59	...that you have consistently opposed us since the beginning of the review of this finance bill. We do not derogate from our analysis of your policy; That is why we are calling for the deletion of Article 3, which confirms the downward trend in business taxes adopted since the beginning of this quinquennium. Last year, it was the IS – corporate tax. This year, it is production taxes, which the economic recovery plan plans to reduce by 10 billion. However, this decline is primarily related to the CVAE, which only applies to companies with turnover in excess of EUR 500000.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u61	[[Ms. Cendra Motin exclaimed]] [["He's right! » on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You may say that we need to increase the size of companies, but in my department, we do not have very large ones: only small ones, whose turnover does not exceed that amount, and who will therefore not benefit from the decline. Mrs. Motin, are you done? It's been three days since you called each of our interventions! If you have anything to say, ask for the floor, but leave us alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Mrs. Motin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u63	She has to stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u64	That's enough at the end! She hasn't stopped for three days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u65	What about you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u66	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Dufrègne, the Assembly has never been a very peaceful place: interruptions are part of the way. As for you, Mrs. Motin, Mr. Dufrègne is very sensitive. Keep quiet, please. At this game, there will always be a draw, since your own speakers can also be interrupted. We will therefore listen respectfully, carefully and in silence. Mr Dufrègne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u67	[[Exclaims]] Thank you, Mr President, for pointing out that I am very sensitive and unable to speak under such conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u68	Go on, Mr. Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u69	I'm going on. At the same time, the territorial economic contribution ceiling, which includes the CFE and the CVAE, will be lowered from 3% to 2% of turnover, which again benefits the largest companies. Finally, this reduction in taxation is not subject to any conditions. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u71	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2350.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u72	Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, you are right: the facts and the figures are stubborn, and it is still a bit of coffee to accuse France of insubstantiated relocations that have occurred for years, knowing that it is you and yours, especially you, Mr Le Maire, who ruled the country for all these years. You say that this policy of exemptions and tax cuts of all kinds would serve competitiveness, therefore employment. Everything proves the opposite. With the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – you managed to throw 20 billion euros out the window every year to create 90000 jobs, instead of the million promised by MEDEF: that's 1 million euros jobs! You claim to support small businesses, that's not true: 65% of the reduction in production taxes will benefit very large companies and the most important ITEs. You say that you support the sectors of culture, tourism, catering, that's not true: your measures will mainly benefit the sectors of electricity and gas, the extractive industries and finance. You say, Mr rapporteur-general, that there is a correlation between the level of production taxes and competitiveness: the World Economic Forum has shown that there are none. What is true, on the other hand, is that France has taken the lead in Europe in terms of reducing these production taxes, but also in terms of subsidies to the production of enterprises. You forgot to say that. What is true is the 45 billion tax cuts granted by your government, and their relation to the 78 billion cuts in public spending that we are suffering today. The state is disorganized, the public health service in such a catastrophic state that it brings you to this amazing measure of curfew. What is true is that relocations are not a matter of competitiveness, as you have been trying for years to make us believe. These are structural reforms initiated by the European Union, which advocates full free trade without customs duties. Thus Bridgestone, after receiving French aid to open a factory in France, receives European aid to close it and to open another plant in Poland. That is the problem we have: it is a problem of protectionism in solidarity, in the face of free trade. It will not be solved by a race to scale to the greatest competitiveness, hence less taxes and a so-called social one that turns to disaster for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u73	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel. What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u74	In the logic of my intervention on the article, it is unfavorable. Mrs Pires Beaune, any change in taxation, whether reduced or increased, implies conditions. In this case, to benefit from the drop in production taxes, you have to produce in France, so there is a factory, so hire employees there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u75	But they're moving out the factories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u76	Mr Roussel, a company that relocates will not benefit from the tax reduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u77	Renault benefits, and Renault relocates!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u78	Tax tools are inherently subject to conditions implied by the tool itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u79	Renault produces in China!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u80	On the other hand, I will join you when you ask yourself what we are doing in favour of ecological transition when we encourage companies to come back to produce in France. For the sake of the matter, this is a real question! That is why 30% of the recovery plan, billions of euros, will be devoted to aid for investment in industrial processes, in order to make them more environmentally friendly. The two dimensions must be seen as going hand in hand. The aim of the fall in production taxes is to ensure that our businesses are competitive, that our jobs remain or return to our soil: no more, no less. If you want our companies to be green, industrial processes to respect the environment, there are appropriate accompanying tools in the recovery plan to finance green business investment. Both devices are complementary. On the contrary, subjecting the reduction of production taxes to ecological conditions would make no sense: companies would not relocate their production, jobs would not be created. We have to do things in order! In addition, Mrs Pires Beaune, you oppose the financing of public services and the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u81	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u82	I don't understand that way of thinking. The PLF for 2021 will strengthen both the competitiveness of our businesses and the public services of our citizens. The gendarmerie, the police will receive more resources; the budget of justice increases by 8 per cent; national education, health is strengthened. This is proof that we can do both at the same time. Yes it is expensive, yes it feeds the debt; But the way to repay it, precisely, is for our country to return to growth, because we will have made companies competitive. That is the virtuous circle, that is our economic logic: supporting businesses does not prevent the financing of essential public services for our citizens. Mr Dufrègne, I have always been very clear: I want tax stability for households, and I repeat that businesses must be made more competitive. On this point, my remarks have never changed. Mr. Coquerel, you compared our tax reduction to the CICE. This argument is not, for a simple reason: the CICE was precisely a bad way of trying to increase the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u83	Then why did you put him in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u84	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, the tax credit is a bad tool: we say "Produce first, we will see what you will benefit from depending on the possible profitability of your business" but we retain the right to cut in the benefits, or to change the conditions of access; the tax administration remains in ambush, the company has a sword of Damocles above the head. Nothing like that to ruin the climate of trust needed for investment. That's why the CICE didn't work. The tax reduction is a completely different mechanism: it is clear and clear; entrepreneurs, investors know what level of taxation they will now benefit from in order to recreate employment in our country. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u86	Minister, please answer me about Renault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u87	It is important that we take advantage of this debate, which I hope is as calm as possible, in order to understand why, of all the nations of the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – France has made the most relocations in the last twenty-five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u88	And keep doing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u89	These mass industrial relocations are an economic and political failure for which we all bear responsibility. It's a sharp wound in the territories; it is a sharp wound in my constituency of the Eure, in Normandy and in the north of France; It is a sharp wound throughout the French nation, a great industrial nation and a great agricultural nation – I say it as a former minister of agriculture. When its agriculture suffers, when its industry moves away, France is no longer France. We must ask ourselves why we have been suffering such a haemorrhage from industrial employment for 25 years. The first reason, rarely mentioned but essential to me, lies in the devalorisation of the manual trades, of the working and industrial culture, of the manufacturing trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u90	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u91	As if production were to be disembodied, as if no more factories were needed, no more workers, no more workers' culture, no more manufacturing enterprises; as if it were preferable for the products to be manufactured abroad and imported into France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u92	A France without factories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u93	This France without factories you're talking about, Mr Roussel, it's not France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u94	It was the MEDEF who wanted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u95	... no more than a France without farms. Second reason: the devalorization of manual trades has deterred young people from training and engaging in them. What was the point, they thought, since these trades no longer have a future? We saw universities fill up and apprentice training centres – CFA – empty, because we had devalued the trades of the industry. Third reason, and this is a clear point of disagreement between Mrs Pires Beaune and me, taxation has penalized French industry; I persist and sign. Consider that 3.7% of industrial value added is taxed by production taxes in France, compared with 0.9% for our European partners. We're leaving with a ball on our feet! Under these conditions, our factories and businesses must grow less well. Moreover, we must stop relying on our laurels, that is to say, to rely systematically on three or four industrial sectors, always the same, quoted from morning to evening and which are, it is true, the pride of our country – aeronautics, luxury, pharmacy, agri-food – without asking ourselves how to develop new industrial sectors. This is what the recovery plan is doing: while relying on strong but historic industrial sectors, we are trying to build new industrial sectors in which France can succeed and will succeed. That is the objective of the recovery plan and the measure that we propose to you today. [[Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applauds]] It is true that certain issues are being dealt with at European level, Mr Coquerel – and for once I have a point of agreement with you: it is absolutely essential to introduce European taxation and customs law, which better protect our economic interests. I repeat with seriousness that all our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions in France are useless if a carbon tax is not introduced at the borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u97	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] All emission reductions made by France are cancelled by the import of CO2 from abroad. It is therefore time to tax, at the borders of the European Union, products that emit CO2 even as we reduce our emissions in France. Of course, Mr Roussel, Mr Dufrègne, the big national companies, Renault and PSA, can and must do better. We have undertaken extensive work with their leaders, Carlos Tavares, Luca de Meo and Jean-Dominique Senard, on the possibility of relocating some of their industrial activities. We have an ongoing dialogue with them. Renault will thus repatriate to France, to Cléon, its manufacture of electric motors and its electric power train. This is very good news, the result of our in-depth discussions with this manufacturer. I'm glad he made that choice. I am convinced that in the 21st century, the transition from the thermal vehicle to the electric vehicle will allow industrial activities to be relocated to France, such as electric motors in Cléon, thanks to the added value, technology and innovation that we offer. We will succeed. Let's take another striking example, always at Renault. I had an in-depth discussion with Sébastien Jumel, between Normands, about the Alpine factory in Dieppe, a historic site that marks its cultural footprint in the Normandy region. If we do not lower production taxes, and if we do not give this brand new site, which produces very high-end vehicles – and tomorrow, I hope, the electric Alpine – the means to be competitive, it could disappear. Renault decided to keep him in Dieppe, following the lengthy discussions we had with him, alongside Mr Jumel, who belongs to your group, gentlemen. Still, certain conditions had to be met. I cannot oblige a company to maintain an industrial site in France if I do not guarantee it an improvement in its competitiveness. In moving forward in this direction, we managed to keep a production site in Dieppe as prestigious and technically sophisticated as Alpine, and we must all congratulate ourselves. We also have in-depth discussions with Carlos Tavares on the possibility of relocating certain PSA productions to France. The latter made the courageous – and, in my view, visionary – choice to join the battery alliance, with Total and Saft, to open in 2022 in northern France, in Douvrin, a factory producing electric batteries for Peugeot vehicles and other brands. This is proof that industrial relocation can be successful if we are able to afford it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are the few general elements that I wanted to remind you, in answer to your questions. This debate is extremely important for our compatriots. It sheds light on what has happened in the last twenty-five years, and allows us to understand how we can succeed in industrial relocation and the strengthening of the industry, which is so dear to the majority, as to all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u98	It seemed to me, minister, that the battery plant to which you referred had to set up in the Béarn. We'll have the opportunity to talk about it again... Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u99	The right is very clear: it has been campaigning since 2017 for the complete abolition of the CVAE. We would have liked it to apply this year. Once again, the Republic on its way is halfway between the right and the left, and opts for a 50% deletion. Finally, you take a leading path between the Republicans' ambitious proposal and the amendments opposing any decline. As with the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – you cut the pear in half! You will have to choose your arguments carefully. You will not be able to say that this measure will be the main instrument that will allow businesses to recover from covid-19. Or, show us that it will be essential for hotels facing Airbnb, for businesses facing Amazon, or for breweries and restaurants that are likely to disappear as a result of the curfew announced yesterday! Don't tell us any more that this measure prepares the industrial future. That's not enough! You mentioned the possibilities offered by hydrogen and quantum calculation, but we are not at the stage of locating production sites. We should also think, Mr Minister, about the notions of green or decarbonated hydrogen. Is it a matter of producing hydrogen with intermittent electricity, i.e. at a very high cost, or with nuclear power – which I think would be a good option? When you talk about the future, I wonder if you're talking about 2030 or 2022! We need a strategist state to go back to the industry. When we see that the state voted against Operation Veolia-Suez, and that Engie, a former state-owned company, took the opposite position, we think that there are still some weapons missing from our industrial policy! Finally, the carbon tax is a very good idea in principle, but the devil is in detail: the calculation of the carbon footprint undertaken per company, country by country, may be particularly complex, if not unfeasible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u100	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u101	I maintain that Article 3 does not benefit TPEs in any way, and very little to SMEs. Since we are here to write the law, let me read to you Article 1586 quater of the General Tax Code: "Companies benefit from a contribution relief on the value added of companies. It shall be equal to the difference between the amount of that contribution and the application of a rate calculated as follows to the value added referred to in Article 1586b(1): For enterprises with a turnover of less than €500,000, the rate is zero; None, that means zero! "(b) For companies with a turnover of between €500,000 and €3000000, the rate is 0.5 %. » The decline continues, up to 1.5%: this is called baraemic compensation. Therefore, since TPEs do not pay CVAEs, lowering the tax will have no beneficial effect on them. SMEs, which pay very little CVAE, will only find a very small gain. On the other hand, finance has much more added value than industry. The reduction of the ACVE will represent a gain of 1.5 billion for the industry, benefiting 35,000 companies. In finance, the gain will be 1 billion and will benefit 13,000 companies. No need for a rule of three, the finance will be proportionately much better lotie. Finally, you say that there are too many production taxes, Minister. However, these taxes flourished between 2002 and 2012, because at the same time, corporate taxes were falling – so much so that the OECD launched a project on the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, known as the BEPS project. Under the aegis of Nicolas Sarkozy, in particular, we saw the tax on turnover, to compensate for this collapse of corporate tax revenues. You want to reduce production taxes, but we will always need tax revenues to make public services work! Let us continue to clean up the corporate tax base, let us take a global action. But I see no will on your part to work on the corporate tax base.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u102	All right! Very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u103	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u104	I have too much respect for your work, ladies and gentlemen, to let you say that this reform and the reduction of production taxes will be at the expense of local and regional authorities. Moreover, you do not stifle your demonstration by referring to articles 3 and 4 of the PLFR, but by referring to the reforms implemented under the previous mandates. Don't make us responsible for what you've done! In the previous mandates, indeed, reforms have taken place at the expense of local and regional authorities: the recovery of public finances has taken place at the expense of local and regional authorities; the reform of the professional tax has been done to the detriment of the local authorities, with some compensation. We are doing exactly the opposite! We propose compensation to the euro, with a dynamic resource, a beneficial mechanism that will preserve local and regional authorities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] If you do not vote for this article, you will lose 1.2 billion euros to local and regional authorities. Indeed, we propose even better than compensation to the euro: next year, the amount paid to local and regional authorities will correspond to the CVAE of 2020, and not to the CVAE of 2021, which will have fallen by 1.2 billion. I repeat, if you do not vote for this article, you will cause a loss of €1.2 billion in revenue for local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u105	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u106	I understand that your measures are aimed at the competitiveness of companies. But for twenty years, Minister, France has gradually reduced corporate tax, and has given gifts of all kinds to companies, with subsidies. However, relocations continue, even in times of covid! You tell us a fable, you tell us that we can't find any more workers – except that before you weakened them, we had extraordinary professional high schools! In this respect, the policy of all-learning does not seem to me to be the panacea, compared to high-quality professional high schools. Anyway, she's a fable. The reality is what you said at the end of your speech, Mr Minister: free trade, especially its Trojan horse in the European Union, where it is probably the most successful in the world, since there is a large free market without constraints, without social and fiscal harmonisation, which allows the same company to travel around each Member State to benefit from the public aid granted to it. You will have to lower taxes, there will always be a country to reduce them more than you do: that's the problem! As long as Europe does not take action, including unilateral measures, relocations will continue. But if you look at the medium term, you will see that there are some who benefit from this tax policy, and that it is not the employees. In 12 years, the SMIC has increased by 12%, the average wage by 20%, the investments of CAC40 companies have decreased by 5% and dividends have increased by more than 100%! In reality, therefore, you serve dividends. In saying this, I do not accuse you of being a servant of shareholders: I know that you think that this will contribute to the repatriation of capital, that capital will create employment... – we know the rest. But it doesn't work, Mr. Mayor! We have already discussed this: as long as you give money without conditions or constraints, as long as you call it the common sense of companies, it will not work, because the common sense of companies, of big companies, is the increase in the level of capitalist rent. That's what drives them. If you continue in this direction, you will see that you will always have fewer implantations in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u107	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u108	We are all focused on relocations, but in order to succeed, we would have to start by questioning the causes of relocations. We have mentioned the many reasons that have led companies to relocate in France over the past fifty years. Among them, there is a fundamental one: the maintenance of business margins and what results from them, the payment of dividends to investors. This is simply the law of capitalism or, if we want to be more modern, the law of liberalism, which wants money to go where it pays the most. Except that in our country, since it is not politically correct to talk about money, we are talking about "competitiveness", which is the same thing in fact. So we explain to the employees that they have to tighten their belt, sacrifice themselves to remain competitive, that is to say to maintain the income of the shareholders. And to pass the pill, the state subsidizes. I will recall here the example of the sale of Toulouse airport, which allowed for the skimming of cash. By whom? By the defaulting shareholder who bought the airport, the Chinese investor! Upstream, we make colossal gifts to companies, amounting to hundreds of billions of euros: abolition of the ISF, introduction of the flat tax, tax credit for competitiveness and employment, transformed into permanent reductions in charges, and today, reduction of production taxes. At the time of the abolition of the business tax – you were not here yet, Mr.Cazereuve, but our ministers so – Carlos Ghosn said exactly the same thing. And what have we seen since then? You yourself recognize that past management has been a failure. [[Applause on several SOC and GDR benches]] If we want to succeed in the fight against relocations, it is urgent – and I may agree with you at least on this point, Minister – to reconsider the working class and, above all, its representativeness within our companies. Unfortunately, it's gone wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u109	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u110	Minister, I love to debate with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u111	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR Group, and of Ms. Caroline Fiat. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In addition, we have points of agreement: we are among those who in the European Parliament have always favoured the introduction of a tax on products imported into the European Union. We belong to a minority group. The Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the right-wing centre group to which you are close, on the other hand, is the oldest and most powerful in the European Parliament. You repeat here that this measure must be adopted, but since you have had power in the European Parliament, why has it never been so? Secondly, unfair competition is taking place, even within the countries of the European Union, between the workers. One sees companies like Bridgestone, who prefer to invest in Hungary and Poland and close sites in France on the pretext that the cost of work would be too high. What they are interested in is capital and they are going to look for money elsewhere instead of getting French employees to work. Renault, which does the same thing, receives billions of euros in public money. Renault invests in Romania and Slovenia to manufacture small electric vehicles that could be produced here, in France! You say that the drop in production taxes is used to relocate, but it doesn't bring back the factories in France. Companies move to all-va: they will pay even more dividends to spoil their shareholders over and over again. How is it that Renault, which is moving, continues to receive public aid and still benefits from your drop in production taxes next year? Why will Total or Sanofi also benefit from it as they remove jobs, while continuing to pay dividends? Don't you have the impression that there's a game of vases communicating between taxpayers' money, these companies and shareholders? These dividends are paid by us, even though these companies are licencing. It's double trouble!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u114	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u115	I thought a little naively that, given the seriousness of the situation in our country, we were going to be able in this House to talk to us, to listen to each other and perhaps to understand each other and to agree with each other instead of remaining on basic positions. Minister, everyone knows that in this economic crisis, those who have not been on the rendezvous are the insurers. Companies are dying because they do not apply the contracts they have signed with them, particularly in the hotel and catering sector. They play the watch by thinking that the company will die before they have to pay him what they owe him. Or they're making agreements. We were promised taxes, but for now, we haven't seen much. I find it abnormal that these insurers, who will make a lot of money with all these manoeuvres, benefit from the provisions of Article 3. We could agree that we don't give tax gifts to companies like these, who aren't at the meeting. Whether companies are helped not to relocate or to relocate, that seems normal to me. But those who make money with the crisis, we're not going to help them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u116	And yet see Thales and others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u117	It would be possible to have a consistent position on this, ladies and gentlemen. Without being too long, I would also like to say to Mr Cazeneuve that, from experience, I know what is happening with compensation. Every time we vote for a reform with compensation to the euro, the following year Bercy's services tried to recover money. We're telling you, you're going to get screwed like we've had ourselves in the past. You have to believe us. Let's take a date: you will see that at the end, the local authorities will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u118	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u119	First, it seems to me important to return to a basic political element: the presidential majority had announced from the beginning that it would carry out tax cuts. We said that we would lower household taxes: that has been done, we will not go back to the figures. We said that we would lower production taxes: that is what is now proposed in Article 3 – and, in order to clarify the position of the Dem Group, we will not vote for its abolition but will have changes to suggest. Here are a few figures: taxes on production and imports represent 16.4% in France, 10.7% in Germany, 14.6% in Italy and 11.8% in Spain. This clearly shows the need to reduce production taxes in the general sense and their share in compulsory levies. Secondly, we believe that the strategy should be based on a balance, which I am going to propose by amendment to change slightly, between the measures concerning the ACVE, the CFE, business-related property taxes, corporate tax reductions and production tax reductions. It is therefore necessary to explain more precisely for whom they will have an impact. Thirdly, it is important to recall that a political agreement has been signed between the regions and the Prime Minister. We do not question it because, in my opinion, it is a rule of public speech not to question an agreement. Local finance experts consider the allocation of a fraction of VAT to the regions to be a good thing. This will have a stabilising effect that will allow us to pursue a small tax reform since we do not multiply taxes and contributions for each block of community. I think that is in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will not vote for these deletion amendments. We remain in the logic of the presidential majority of reducing production taxes in the general sense, even if we consider that some improvements should be made to the CFE and the CVAE, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u120	On these deletion amendments, which are, I would remind you, the subject of a public vote, a wide-ranging debate has been held. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u121	I will be very quick, Mr President, I promise you, but I would like to continue the discussion with Mr Roussel and other Members. First of all, PSA has also taken decisions on industrial relocation. The Peugeot 3008 plug-in hybrid will now be produced in Sochaux, which represents as many jobs for the companies and workers of the site. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, I agree with you, Mr Roussel, and with Mr Coquerel on the need for social and fiscal harmonisation in Europe. I will simply ask you a few questions: who has obtained the reform on posted workers, who provides that at the same job there is an identical wage? It is this majority and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Who is fighting, on the front line, to finally have a fair taxation of digital activities, a fair taxation of digital giants, and a minimum tax on companies so that there is no more tax dumping in Europe? It is France and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u124	You've been making such promises for two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u125	On these points, I think we could meet. I would also like to reply to Mr Pupponi. We are in an economic situation that is extremely difficult for many employees and for many entrepreneurs. It is obvious that the health decisions that the President of the Republic announced yesterday to protect our health for all penalize tens of thousands of entrepreneurs, restaurateurs, hoteliers, people working in the performing arts, in the cinema, in the theatre, in the sports halls – all those who see their activities reduced or stopped because of these health rules. We will help them, I say again, but the effort must be collective. No one will be able to exonerate themselves from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u126	Are you sure? Not even big fortunes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u127	Solidarity is not just the solidarity of the State. Solidarity is not just the solidarity of the public authorities. Solidarity is the solidarity of all economic actors without exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u128	Flan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u129	This is the solidarity of the large company vis-à-vis its subcontractors, vis-à-vis its SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u130	Flan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u131	When I received the contractors of the aviation sector, which is one of the most threatened by the crisis, I asked Airbus' leaders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u132	Employees go in underwear, with the worst social plan that exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u133	...of Safran, Thales, Dassault to make all the efforts necessary to support SMEs, industrial subcontractors everywhere in France. They've committed themselves to it and we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u134	It's been a thriving sector for 30 years, and subcontractors are still dying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u135	If we could have a discussion that is not interrupted every thirty seconds by screams... If you want to tell me something, Mr. Ruffin, do it, and I'll answer you later. That is how a debate works. We can't hear you, I prefer you to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u136	We don't have the floor every thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u137	Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u138	Recognize that I answer you every time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u140	I'm not running away from any debate. I am simply saying that no one can exonerate himself from this collective effort and that this solidarity cannot only be that of the public authorities. It is also the solidarity of large companies giving orders to their subcontractors – it is vital in this period of economic crisis. It is also the solidarity of the insurers with their insured persons: I will receive them within a few days to remind them that in this particular period they have a responsibility to exercise and that we will ensure that they do so. It is also the solidarity of the banks: I started some new discussions with the French banking federation last night to see what we can do with state-guaranteed loans to relieve businesses, and I want to congratulate myself once again on the constructive nature of our exchanges. It is also the solidarity of the major donors: we see that the question of rents, in this period when there have been many closures, has become extremely sensitive for entrepreneurs and that the donors themselves must go a little further. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and several benches of the Dem group]] The role of the State in these particular circumstances, and I have been watching over it as Minister of Economy and Finance since the first day, is to make everyone understand that it is only by gathering and not by dividing, by taking responsibility and not by running away, that we will emerge from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u141	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 413, 1899 and 2350.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u142	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 93 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 19 Against 74
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, after this long but serious and necessary debate on production taxes, I propose that you continue the discussion on the amendments to Article 3. I call on everyone to show good will, because we still have more than a thousand amendments to consider. For my part, I will ensure that the Rules of Procedure are strictly applied by giving the floor to only two speakers per amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u144	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u145	It is based on Rule 53 of our Rules of Procedure, which deals with the communication to our Assembly of information concerning it. Earlier, the Prime Minister will explain to the press the details of the measures announced yesterday by the President of the Republic. Among these measures, one is not trivial, namely the introduction of a curfew, which had not been seen in France since 17 October 1961. And we learn that the mayors of the cities concerned have not even been consulted on the means to implement! This decision comes after a series of announcements and waltzes – one day we close bars and restaurants in Marseille, the next day we reopen them all over the country... – revealing the risky nature of the decisions taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u146	Mr President, this is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u147	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] I would prefer us to debate here in Parliament, rather than to learn that a search was carried out this morning at the homes of Jérôme Salomon and Olivier Véran in the context of judicial information on the crisis of the covid. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no That is why I ask that the Prime Minister, rather than speaking to the press as a matter of priority, come here to present the details of the decisions that will apply. It seems to me that it is up to the national representative to be informed first, not to the press, if we want to respect the parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u149	On the identical amendments Nos 722 and 1274, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 722.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u150	This amendment by Members The Republicans, signed by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, proposes an amendment to Article 3. It must be admitted that there is a problem of competitiveness in France, which can hardly be denied. However, the measure you have chosen will have consequences. I hear Mr Cazeneuve say that the fall in production taxes will benefit local authorities, and that compensation will be made to the euro: certainly, but the recipe is not so dynamic! In 2019, the total amount of VAT collection was EUR 174.8 billion. By 2020, it will already be 160 billion: we will have lost almost 15 billion VAT revenues in a year! Of course, the crisis has something to do with it; However, VAT may fall. And I come to the share of the state in this total: for 2021, it is planned to return to the level of VAT of 2018; However, if the government's VAT revenue amounted to 129 billion in 2019, it would in the best case only reach 89 billion by 2021. There will therefore be a dry loss of 40 billion euros for the revenue of the State! It is this process that we intend to denounce! We want to remedy this by a real reform of the financing of the competitiveness of our enterprises, which can be done by allocating a fraction of the corporate tax, as we propose with this amendment. But the mechanism you have planned will completely drain the VAT revenue from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u151	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1274.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u152	The Council of Compulsory Levies – CPO – has just published a report entitled "Adapting business taxation to a digitised global economy", which its president Pierre Moscovici came to present yesterday to the Finance Committee. It stresses that the cumulation of corporate and production taxes accounts for 15.7% of compulsory levies in France, compared with an average of 12.9% in OECD Member States. That is to say, the extent to which the production tax is a French singularity. Concerned about the financing of this measure in the long term, the CPO also stresses that "the need to correct the public accounts by acting on the level of revenue without neglecting to act on expenditure must be taken into account. It also states that there is a risk that territorial policies will one day be primarily financed by the national taxpayer, and hence by large household taxes. According to him, "a balanced strategy on production taxes must be defined, indicating and quantifying structural compensatory measures, which are essential for their further reduction. » That is what President Woerth is proposing with this amendment: it is a matter of going further, with a real reform of local taxation. As it stands, you stop in the middle of the ford, without solving the problem of the functioning of local and regional authorities which will arise sooner or later. The situation we are facing today is the result of the abolition of the trade tax, which itself has led to the creation of two new taxes, the CVAE and the CFE: this is what we are dealing with. If you do not undertake a real reform of local taxation, we will have to come back to the issue in a few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that many of you are raising your hand. I must remind you that we have rules: only two Members can speak on each amendment – one for, one against. On Amendment No 722, I will give the floor to Mr Jerretie and Mr de Courson. I am sure that the latter will appreciate, and that he will take advantage of it to meditate on the fact that it may happen, in the course of the debate, that he will not be the one who speaks. As for you, Mr Pauget, do not be afraid, you will have other opportunities to speak on other amendments. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u154	Before the crisis, we had already started this debate on the need to lower production taxes. It was then about 1 to 3 billion euros. This PLF contains two articles which provide for a reduction in production taxes of EUR 10 billion per year. It seems to me difficult to argue that this is insufficient: in reality, it is a major step that we are about to take in this matter. I want to say to our colleagues who sit on the right of this House and are also responsible for public finances that we must strike the right balance between a frank step forward in the reduction of production taxes and the need to continue to control, as far as possible, our public finances: I believe, for my part, that this is what we are doing with Articles 3 and 4. In other words, the financial consequences that would result from a complete deletion of the ACVEI do not seem reasonable. Furthermore, what you are suggesting to compensate for this abolition with respect to local authorities, namely a fraction of corporate tax, seems to me to be a bad idea, because there is no more volatile base than that of corporate tax. What we are proposing to the regions with Article 3 is a fraction of VAT, a dynamic and solid recipe, approved, I believe, by all the presidents and presidents of the regions – and a solution that also prevents the regions from having to undergo the worst year of CVAE. I would like to join you in considering that after the housing tax and after the compensation of economic taxation, one day it will be necessary to rethink the local taxation as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u155	Well, let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u156	We will have to ask ourselves about the notion of the relationship between the taxpayer – businesses and households – and the communities. However, recognize that we have done things in stages, as needed. We first reduced our country's tax burden, which was done for households on the housing tax, and for businesses on the CVAE, the CFE and the TFPB. It is only in a second phase that we will have to rethink local taxation, as you ask: we cannot do everything at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u157	It's amazing, from the followers of the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u158	We are making sure that we continue to deliver on the promise made at the beginning of the parliamentary term that the state will compensate the euro for the losses caused by changes in taxation for local authorities. As we have always said, we have always done and we will still do so, both for the transformation of CVAE into VAT – from which the regions will come out winning – and for the revenue levies – PSR –, intended to offset the reduction in property tax and CFE for the communal block. We are doing nothing but respecting the words of the majority vis-à-vis local and regional authorities. Everything has been done in consultation with them and it seems to me important to preserve the complex and fragile balance that we have finally achieved, a balance that any change in the finances – those of the state, those of the communities or those of the companies – could compromise. I am therefore against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u160	The Deputy Minister for Public Accounts has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u161	We are discussing a series of amendments which have a common objective: not to call into question the reduction in production taxes, but to propose a different reduction, either in its volume or in its distribution. In itself, it is legitimate, even if the Government believes that the objectives we are aiming at, in terms of the sectors and size of the enterprises concerned, appear to be achieved with its solution, which would not be the case with the other proposals. We want to lower taxes for SMEs, as well as for the secondary sector, and that is the reason for the mix we are proposing. The compensation arrangements for the communities contained in the proposed amendments present risks in terms of volatility, as the rapporteur-general has said, but would also pose problems in terms of the technique of compensation and the number of communities to be compensated. I would like to make two further clarifications. Firstly, as far as local tax reform is concerned, we have not been waiting for two years or seven years, but more than ten years. All the elected associations are waiting for him, but such a reform is of incredible complexity, as all those who have tried to tackle it know. The issue that will be most difficult to resolve is that of fiscal autonomy, which is not recognized by our Constitution. If Parliament were ever to choose the fiscal autonomy of the communities, it would be necessary to draw all the consequences for them, by encouraging them to raise taxes and revenues in times of growth, but also by making them contribute in the event of difficulties. Today, we are in a somewhat hybrid situation from this point of view. As the tax revenues of the communities increase, everyone takes advantage of fiscal autonomy to cling to it, but when the revenues are falling, everyone turns to the state to ask for compensation – this applies not only to revenues, but also to expenditures, as we have seen in the latest amending finance bills – PLFR. One day or the other, it will certainly have to be decided, but for the time being, we must recognize that we are acting rather in the context of urgency. The second point I want to stress has already been mentioned: it is the dynamics of VAT which will be used as compensation to the regions – a question that had already arisen at the time of the compensation given to the intercommunalities and the departments in the context of the reform of the housing tax – TH. Indeed, when there is a systemic crisis, there is a reduction in VAT. In recent history, such a phenomenon has only been observed twice: in the context of the 2009 crisis and now. Apart from these two cases, over the long term, the dynamics of VAT are, at 2.80%, higher than that of land tax as well as of TH, and much more legible than that of the CVAE, which everyone agrees to consider one of the most unpredictable and volatile taxes. A 2.80-point dynamic makes it possible to secure a trajectory, while, as all elected officials who have to manage the CVAE know, this recipe is almost totally unpredictable from year to year. That is why, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, this year's decline led us, in the context of the protocol with the regions, to adopt as the basis for the compensation of the CVAE the year 2019, which was a good year, and to calculate the amount of the compensation from a fraction of the VAT defined not in percentage but in value, which will then be indexed to the national evolution of VAT revenues, which guarantees the regions that the compensation due to them will be preserved from the decrease in these revenues this year. The opinion on these amendments is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u162	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u163	For my part, the CVAE is not the tax that I will propose to delete: it is too interesting. In a few years, we will surely need this kind of tax based on turnover, wealth and value. The report you mentioned highlights the problem of corporate taxation. From this point of view, the tool that is the ACVEN seems to me susceptible to evolution and that is why I am opposed to its complete deletion: adaptations are possible, the minister has just mentioned it. In any event, it is this issue that I believe should be taken into account rather than that of the communities. That is why I believe that this important, structured and structuring tax should not be abolished. The existing rebates already amount to $4.5 billion, and its revenue has yet to be reduced by $9 billion: it will remain approximately another $9 billion in revenue from this tax. Let us not completely remove it, Mr.Minister Delegate, but let us adapt it as part of a reform aimed at ensuring fair taxation of the production and wealth of our businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u164	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u165	The word is always on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u166	Compensating the removal of ACVAE by a fraction of the IS product is a bad idea, given its fluctuating nature. Moreover, IS cannot be territorialised. Nor is the Government's proposal to compensate for the net proceeds of VAT a good idea, since it cannot be territorialised either, unlike the CSG. I continue to say that what the Government is proposing is very poorly targeted, for three reasons. First, only 21 per cent of the 7.5 billion declines will go to industry, 18 per cent to commerce and 11 per cent to banking and insurance. Secondly, everyone has forgotten this, but the CVAE scale is degressive: rates range from 0 to 1.5, the latter rate only applying to more than 50 million turnovers – the zero rate is below 500,000 euros of turnover. So the government proposal will not benefit SMEs, no matter what you say. The third reason, of which no one is talking, is the reduction of the ceiling from 3 to 2 per cent. Who's he profiting from? To large companies, 41%! It is clear that this measure is poorly targeted, unlike what you are proposing for the CFE, based on built land, which targets industrial buildings. That is why I call for a doubling of this last advantage and a reduction of the other one due to competition, to remain within the envelope of 10 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u167	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 722 and 1274.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u168	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 13 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u169	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u170	[["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Who's making fun of you? I have here one of five million masks, probably containing toxic products, which were sent to all teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u171	There's no connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u172	Please! You're not going to have fun interrupting the speaker every time! If Mr Ruffin has the floor, it is by virtue of the power that his constituents have given him to speak here: it is not up to you or me. Let him speak, then, before he hears the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate. Otherwise we will not get away with it, given the number of amendments that remain! I therefore call on everyone to take responsibility: Mr Ruffin and he alone has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u173	These five million masks were produced in Romania, where the average wage is 500 euros, compared to 2000 in France. The minimum wage is 285 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u174	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u175	What's that got to do with it? You're talking about relocations: are you really planning to relocate the production of masks, clothing, food, medicines by raising the territorial economic contribution ceiling from 3% to 2%? This is absolutely ridiculous! It's not up to the stakes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u176	You don't know anything about it! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u177	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Einstein said that madness was always doing the same thing and expecting different results. That's what you do! You have already lowered taxes, reforming the solidarity tax on wealth and adopting the flat tax: France strategy, an agency attached to the Prime Minister, concludes that this is an unfair and ineffective measure. Macron had already decided on such reductions in Holland with the CICE, which costs 20 billion euros a year. While Gattaz promised us the creation of a million jobs, there were at best 100,000 jobs: this is a cost of 1 million euros per job per year! So this sprinkle is a failure. Already in 2010, while Mr Le Maire was already a minister, Sarkozy justified the abolition of the business tax by saying that he wanted to keep factories in France, put an end to relocations or even relocate. It's always the same crazy recipe, and it's always been the same failure for about 40 years. But maybe you'll say what Macron...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u178	Mr. President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u179	... said yesterday about Stop covid: "No, it's not a failure, it just didn't work! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u180	It's import-export, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u182	Mr Ruffin, you have not defended your amendment, which proposes doubling the rate of the additional tax to the CVAE for the benefit of the chambers of commerce and industry. This measure would increase the burden on our SMEs by EUR 260 million, which I think neither you nor I want at this time. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u184	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u185	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u186	I would like to support what our colleague has said. By harmonising the rate of our production taxes with those in force in Europe, we do not protect ourselves at all against extra-European relocations. Mr Le Maire said: production taxes cannot be reduced without protecting themselves from imports from non-European countries. He mentioned the carbon tax – except that it has still not been voted! There is a problem of temporality between, on the one hand, our entry into a European competition today where we are lagging behind Germany, which embarked on it well before its recovery plan, and, on the other hand, decisions which are still not taken at European level to protect us. As a result, this measure loses its deterrent character. Examples prove this, such as Bridgestone's, who chose to relocate his production to China. In my constituency, Adeo is sinking the Nespoli company because it has decided to have its brushes produced in China. There is indeed a problem of temporality between national measures and those which should be taken at European level. All this makes sense only if it is concerted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u187	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u188	I fully agree with Mr Bricout on this point and regret that I have not been able to tell the Minister for the Economy. I spoke yesterday about the very difficult situation of silicon production sites in France. Unfortunately, it is not the reduction in production taxes that will save them, even if we are in favour of it, when the European Union taxes imports of Chinese silicon to 16% while they are taxed at 300% at the entry of the United States! If Chinese silicon floods our markets, it is because it is produced at costs on which France will never be able to align. That is why I agree with Mr Bricout: such decisions must be concerted, except to open up the barrel of the Danaides to the detriment of the industries working very upstream of the production chain and which are fully exposed to global competition. I would have liked the Minister of Economy to tell us what the resistance against the carbon tax in the European Union is, and when we can impose it on our borders: it is imperative if we are to protect the European market. We need immediate answers to this question of the protection of the European market. Otherwise, we can always adopt all the tax cuts we want, it won't work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u189	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 2129.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u190	You know, ladies and gentlemen, that large companies are not affected in the same way as small ones by the health and economic crisis that we are going through. In addition, TPEs and SMEs pay much more taxes in proportion than large companies, which is profoundly unfair, as well as inefficient if we want a relocated economy and a society that ensures the vitality of economic structures as close to needs, in which production would be less uniform and which would provide the means for individual and collective initiative and creativity. However, you have decided to reduce the contribution on the value added of enterprises, production tax, in a uniform way. We are, as you know, opposed to this dogmatic and liberal choice to lower production taxes, especially since SMEs will only capture 30% of the profits you plan for businesses. As Mediapart has revealed, a quarter of this decline will benefit 280 companies, while the 250,000 smallest companies will gain only 125 euros. And big groups will earn up to 9 million euros! Do you realize? And since there will be no counterpart, as every time you give gifts to big companies, it will be the most polluting companies and finance that will earn the most. Even those who quit while paying dividends will benefit from this drop in production tax. So you're lying...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Autain...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u192	I'm just finishing on that point. You lie when you stop hammering that your bill would be in favour of the little ones...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Autain. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u194	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as before. Mr President, it would be good if, with a suspension of the sitting, the heads of each group could meet to organise the continuation of our debates on this text, because we still have more than 1800 amendments to discuss this Thursday at almost eleven o'clock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u196	Opinions were also unfavourable. Here we are looking at a series of amendments, many of which propose a different distribution of the reduction we want to make, which is quite respectable, while others continue to question the amount of that reduction. I will have an opportunity in a few moments to address the issue of allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u197	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor. Mrs Autain, you are asking for the floor, but Mr Bricout had done so before you. Let me chair. I have made it clear a number of times earlier that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I will give the floor to two speakers on each amendment, and since I have received only one request, I will then allow you to speak. On the other hand, we can make all the suspensions we want, but if no one complies with the rules on returning, we won't make any progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u198	Why are you getting mad? I didn't ask for anything! Take a chamomile!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u199	[[Ms Clémentine Autain exclaimed]] I don't get mad, I remind you of certain rules. Mrs Autain, it is not here that I should be given advice on how to preside. You can do it at the Presidents' Conference. Mr Bricout, you have the floor, and you alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u200	[[Smile]] Since Mrs Autain leaves me the floor, I will defend her position a little bit. The provisions we are talking about raise issues of competitiveness. Indeed, they benefit large companies, and it is in a way so much better for competitiveness, because it is rather they that are destined for export, and perhaps also SMEs that could turn into ETIs. The aim is to give companies additional room for manoeuvre, allowing them either to strengthen their cash flow or to invest in their production tools by positioning themselves better in the markets. In fact, this does not necessarily translate into job gains, as modernising the work tool, for example through robotics, does not necessarily create employment. Companies can also increase wages. The problem is that your scheme does not provide any protection for the distribution of dividends, no matching obligations to make companies more virtuous in the field of the environment. I would expect your provisions to give us means of regulation, or at least to allow us to control the distribution of dividends which, in the end, do not contribute anything to the production tool in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u201	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u202	Mr. Deputy Minister, you will have understood that our amendment is an amendment of withdrawal. We do not agree with the reduction in production tax, but we propose that it be maintained for the very small enterprises. You should, in principle, welcome this proposal. You should explain to us how the provision you are making today will be in favour of small, small and medium-sized enterprises – but you know very well that this is not the case today. You repeat on TV sets and in the media that your finance law will be favourable to small businesses, whereas this is absolutely wrong and those who will benefit from it are a very small core of companies that are already the best off. This is unacceptable. [["Oh! » on various benches]] Mr President, we misunderstood ourselves earlier. I stood up and raised my hand to ask for the floor: there is nothing extraordinary about it. Let me tell you very quietly that we in the Chamber are sometimes a number of women who feel that your aggression against women is greater than against men.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u203	Mrs Autain, I cannot accept such a statement. They are very easy on your part, and they are unbearable to hear. You will be able to present your arguments to the Conference of Presidents. For my part, I shall be surprised, at its next meeting next Tuesday, that such comments can be made in this House. I have just received a message from Mr François Ruffin, who finds it aberrant that we cannot reply to his own amendment. On the merits, he's right, but we have a settlement...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u204	We didn't vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u205	... which provides that only two speakers may speak on the amendments. I do not agree with that, because these two speakers should speak in favour of the amendment and against it: we have just demonstrated that my reading of the Rules of Procedure is very calm, and even lax, since you have spoken, Mrs Autain, like Mr Bricout, in support of the same amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We can raise the debate, Mrs Autain, by avoiding comments and criticisms of this style, which I find unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u206	It's a trial of intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u207	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u208	On behalf of the chairman of the Committee on Finance, who is unable to do so today, I would like to say that I find Mrs Autain's remarks unacceptable. President Habib has never mentioned any sexual difference in the House. I would like to remind him and thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Activité ens groups]] As for allegedly unfavourable treatment, I would point out that the Rules of Procedure provide for one speaker to speak in favour and one speaker to speak against. Mr President, you have given the floor to two speakers in favour. If we really want to move forward, we will have to go back to the rule, so that the debate is more fluid and to avoid such interventions which, in addition to not advancing the debate, will force us to work all night from Monday to Tuesday on this finance bill. I invite Mrs. Autain to stay there all night, just like us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u209	Mrs Dalloz, I fully agree with you. The difficulty is that it is complicated to anticipate what the speakers will say, especially since our Chamber is a little bit, how to say...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u210	Straight clite?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u211	Scattered?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u212	There you go. Mr Pauget, who is a man and to whom I refused to speak earlier, may say that he did not see this as a particular sexist measure. Mrs Autain's remarks are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u213	That's his feeling, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u214	Mr rapporteur, you asked earlier for a suspension of the sitting. I propose that we proceed now, so that our debates can regain their serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u215	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u216	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u217	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor to support Amendment No. 2633.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u218	He was one of those who reflected the Dem Group's proposal to switch the CVAE to the communal block and to abolish the CFE. This amendment No 2633 proposes, not to delete, but to amend the CVAE and to retain the agreement reached with the Prime Minister, according to which compensation to the regions will be made through VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u220	Disadvantaged, for reasons of the same order as those I opposed to Mrs Dalloz earlier. A balance has been found – even if one might prefer another; I don't claim that this one is the only one possible. Nevertheless, it has the agreement of the stakeholders, whom the Assembly must respect: the departments, the communes, the regions – the special rapporteur of the mission "Relations with local authorities" as you are well aware, Mr Jerretie. Clearly, this balance has been generally agreed – even if the debate continues, notably with the AMF – Association des maires de France et des présidents d'intercommunalités – which is quite normal. In the meantime, this balance is the right one, and I think you approve of it. I suggest you keep it as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u222	Mr Jerretie's and the Dem Group's proposal is one of those that I described earlier as respectable, even if it is based on a different combination from the one we are proposing. I do not go back to the rapporteur-general's arguments about the balance achieved: I share them, as I have already said. I add an element, Mr Jerretie, to which I know you attach: the CVAE, which you propose to switch to the local block, is a very volatile tax that is difficult to predict. Its territorialization therefore presents a problem of predictability. I propose that you withdraw the amendment in order to continue this legitimate debate, which concerns the financing of local communities, and to preserve the existing balance by protecting communities from volatility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u223	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u224	I hear what the minister delegate said. The aim of this amendment was indeed to show that another mechanism is possible concerning the CFE and the CVAE, in order to consolidate the reflection on the communal bloc. I withdraw the amendment so that the debate on production taxes and local taxation can continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u225	Mr Xavier Roseren, in support of Amendment No. 2515, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u226	In the interests of simplification, it aims to remove the reporting requirement of CVAE for companies with a turnover of less than EUR 500000. Indeed, the General Tax Code specifies that the CVAE declaration is compulsory for companies with a turnover of between EUR 152500 and EUR 500000 but that no amount is due as such. It is therefore a matter of reducing administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u227	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 575, 2067, 2066, 312, 1220 and 1898, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 312, 1220 and 1898 are identical. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 575.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u228	It follows from the following observation: the reduction in production taxes, as you advocate, does not remedy their shortcomings, in particular their distortive effect on economic activity. The CVAE, for example, is calculated on the basis of the value added produced by the undertakings concerned, but its base depends on their turnover. Thus, the tax rate applied to a quarter of enterprises whose value added is in the ninth decile is less than 0.7%, while it is higher than 1.4% for a quarter of enterprises in the other deciles. With similar value added, the ACV rate can therefore vary from simple to double: this is where the distortion effect is. In parallel with tax cuts, it would be preferable to reform the structure to ensure greater economic neutrality of local taxes. The CVAE would be calculated on the basis of a progressive scale based on the amount of value added produced by companies, which would not only have the advantage of legibility, but would also restore equal treatment for companies – a wish which I think is commendable for the entire French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u229	On Amendments Nos 2067 and 2066, I have a request for a public vote before the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u230	We want to reduce the decline in CVAE for large companies. Amendment No 2066 aims to exclude from the scope of this reduction those of them whose turnover is more than EUR 1.5 billion. Amendment No 2067 provides for an exception to this exclusion, so that the companies concerned, which justify environmental and social compensations, still benefit from the decline in CVAE. This would include greenhouse gas transparency, compliance with due diligence requirements, job retention and the publication of a number of social performance indicators. Clearly, of these two amendments, one targets the reduction of CVAE to the smallest companies to return the economy thus achieved to an SME support fund, and the other adds conditionality to the reduction of CVAE.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u231	We come to the three identical amendments, Nos 312, 1220 and 1898. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u232	In committee, I said of this amendment that it was an amendment of provocation; I'm staying and I'm signing! The aim is to exclude large companies from the scope of the decline in the EAC. My conviction has only been stronger since last night: small businesses, restaurants, bars, tourism and event operators, caterers and cinemas which, economically speaking, were the biggest losers of confinement, will be greatly affected by the measures announced by the President of the Republic. I do not deny the value of the decline in the EAC for industry. Like other colleagues, I wonder about its relevance to the banking and insurance sector. In any event, like many other small entrepreneurs, I find it difficult to discern the possible effects of the recovery plan and the drop in production costs – which you present as a flagship measure – on very small businesses, on SMEs, on self-employed workers, on traders, on artisans or on farmers – who, incidentally, are not affected by production taxes, with the possible exception of the property tax on non-building – TFNB – which they ask for the amount of the exemption to be increased from 20% to 50% of the tax base. The rapporteur-general and the minister-general should inform our discussions on this point, particularly with regard to the strata of recipient companies, in particular those of less than 20 employees who provide a link between employment and the core of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u233	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 1220.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u234	Deputy Minister, rapporteur-general, you make the choice – or rather the bet – to lower production taxes to finance the recovery; Many of us do not believe this, especially because this will damage local democracy, as we said earlier. The cost of these measures will be very high; At least it should be limited in scope. We therefore propose to exclude large companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1.5 billion from this scheme to be reserved for SMEs and ITEs. The economy thus achieved would make it possible to envisage the creation of tools for SMEs and TPEs, e.g. a debt fund clearly targeted at TPEs, or, why not, an increase in the allocation of BPIfrance in order to guarantee the participatory loans granted to TPEs and SMEs, or the strengthening of the fund for the development of association life and support for all enterprises in the social economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u235	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 1898.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u236	These are identical amendments from both the right and the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u237	They're not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u238	They simply aim to exclude from the benefit of the drop in production taxes large enterprises with turnover of more than EUR 1.5 billion, to make it more beneficial to small enterprises and the ITEs and to better target the decline in question. This is a feasible measure: at least we could gather around these amendments! As I have already said, major groups like Total, Sanofi, Schneider or Thales will benefit from the drop in production taxes while, last year, they distributed billions of euros of dividends! Total has distributed 6.93 billion, Sanofi 3.94 billion, Schneider 1.4 billion and Thales 130 million! And these companies would benefit from the reduction of production taxes? This is not understandable for employees or for SMEs and TPEs. That is why we want to reserve the reduction of production taxes for small businesses and exclude large ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u240	What is the committee's opinion on all the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u241	Unfavorable. Let us make it clear that not all of these amendments are identical and do not have the same objective; My unfavorable opinion is therefore justified by different reasons. First of all, with regard to the amendments aimed at excluding large companies from the scope of the measure, I would say to their authors – Mr Brun, Mrs Cariou, Mr Leseul and Mr Roussel – that they consider large companies to be a stratospheric entity that would operate in a vacuum with its shareholders. It is too soon to forget that large companies account for 27% of full-time equivalents in France. I would not allow myself to put these jobs in difficulty by excluding large companies from the stimulus package. On the other hand, large companies make 31% of French added value and, above all, you forget the principle of the value chain – subcontracting and all other companies that benefit, directly or indirectly, from the industrial and commercial action of large companies! Yes, there are large companies in France: it is a feature of national culture, more pronounced than in other countries that rely more on ITEs. Many of our very large companies are industrial jewels and each has its own history. Let us be careful not to consider them as the absolute enemy that should not be saved during the crisis. Attention: hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake! I therefore do not agree with you. I believe that large companies are important providers of jobs and that they must also be accompanied in times of crisis. It is wrong to consider that large companies have not been affected; They were also. The fall in production taxes must therefore enable these and other enterprises to relocate employment in proportion. Once again, the opinion is totally unfavorable because we do not share the same vision of economic reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u243	Indeed, these amendments under discussion have very different objectives – the amendment tabled by Mr Woerth naturally does not go in the same direction as those put forward by Mrs Cariou and Mr Roussel. I confirm the rapporteur-general's statement on large companies: their share of the benefit of the tax reduction is far less than their contribution to the creation of added value. Conversely, the share of this benefit that will go to the ITEs is higher than their share in the creation of added value – which is in line with our objective of further assisting ITEs and SMEs. As far as farmers are concerned, they do not benefit from the decline we are looking at because they do not pay CFE or CVAE. On the other hand, agricultural enterprises benefit from these measures when they fulfil the required criteria, like the others. In the case of TPEs and SMEs, the committee discussions provided insights into the Government's and the majority's proposal, including changes to the lower-rate corporate tax thresholds, among others. It should be borne in mind that the main focus of the emergency measures adopted is on enterprises with fewer than 10 employees, which is evidence of a commitment to the TPEs. For different reasons, therefore, I express an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u244	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u245	I support these common-sense amendments, which, from right to left, embrace the whole House with the exception of a majority who persevere in the madness denounced by Emmanuel Macron in the spring. What's this madness? It consists of pouring billions or even tens of billions to the blind, sprinkled without targeting. So, the big ones will pick up very big and the small ones will pick up very small! Which companies in the private sector have benefited most from the competitiveness-employment tax credit? Auchan, Carrefour, Casino. Who will benefit most from the measure we are looking at? Amazon, for example, whose land tenure is huge and which already pays no taxes in France, or even large distribution companies that do not encounter any international competition! You make a general watering without distinguishing between small and large companies, between industry and services, between competing and non-competitive sectors. Not only will this general sprinkling bring nothing, but it is particularly unfair: you will also help companies like Amazon and their executives who are enriched by tens of billions of euros! Giving them even one euro is a shame! You're still going to help groups like Total that distributed €7 billion in dividends. Giving them one euro is a shame! Now, that's what you're doing. Colleagues, let us stop speaking to the members of the Government as if we believed in their good faith, as if we were to convince them. It has been shown that CICE and other such measures have no effect. We have to think – which is difficult – that they are at the service of shareholders, multinational companies, and very large capital. We will not convince them with all the arguments that we can develop because their aim is not to revive the country, it is to give money to those who will welcome them on their board of directors when they are no longer ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u246	Excessive! You generalize and caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u247	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u248	In my opinion, Minister Delegate, you are completely missing your target, whether you are targeting large or small businesses. Take big companies and the criteria of competitiveness, job creation and relocation. As Mrs Bonnivard pointed out, you are not protecting the European market by creating a carbon tax that we are still waiting for – in this area, it is a lot of incantations but little results. You do not prevent the distribution of dividends and the transformation of public money into dividends, which is a pity. Finally, you do not impose compensations that could be more environmentally friendly. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] What about small businesses? They take very little advantage of this mechanism, which does not correspond to their expectations. After accumulating a stock of tax and social debts, they face a real debt problem to which you do not answer. The participative loan, which I mentioned to you yesterday, would perhaps have the merit of relieving the ups and downs as it is about operating credits. You didn't answer. As for the order books of small businesses, they can only be filled if consumption is revived, which means taking purchasing power measures based on a demand policy, while you pursue only a supply policy. I repeat: you completely miss your target.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u249	I have asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u250	As I have already indicated, I will not take more than two speakers. I have read your message well, Mr. Orphelin, and I find it quite unacceptable. To tell me that if I do not give you the floor, you will ask for a suspension of the sitting,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u251	Class, super class!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u252	It's a form of blackmail!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u253	...this is the best way for me to continue our debates. Do you wish to withdraw your amendment, Mr Brun?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u254	Indeed, Mr President, because I do not deny the interest of the scheme in the industry. However, Mr General, Mr Delegate Minister, I will continue to talk to you about small businesses. When you offer them a reduction in the ACV, they answer: Very well, but what part of our total tax and social charges does it represent? As for your recovery plan, based on investment aid, companies still need to stay alive in order to take advantage of it. That's where the emergency is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u255	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2067.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u256	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 29 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u257	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2066.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u258	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 29 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u259	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 114, 484, 735, 879 and 2479. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 114, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u260	As a follow-up to our debate on reducing production taxes, it reflects our commitment to favouring PEs and SMEs in redistribution. At equivalent amounts, we propose to change the procedure for establishing the base and rates of EBAC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u261	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 484.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u262	My arguments are the same as those of my colleague Brun. Mr.Minister Delegate, why has the Government not expanded the scale so that SMEs can benefit more from the measure? You systematically reduce the CVAE by half but you don't touch the boundaries, while you could play on both tables.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u263	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 735.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u264	As the texts stand, the elimination of half of the ACVEN product, combined with the decrease in the cap on the TEC, would benefit mainly large companies. That is why I voted against the amendments made by our colleagues on the benches opposite. Large enterprises reaching the ceiling more quickly, the remaining amount of EACV would therefore be distributed to SMEs with a turnover of less than EUR 50 million. The maximum rate of 1.5 per cent would lose its effectiveness and the scale's progressivity would be reduced. In order to maintain the initial balance of the scale, it is necessary to review the rates, so that the reform benefits all companies, especially the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u265	Amendment No 879 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2479.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u266	The ACVE accounts for a predominant share of production taxes, with in 2019 a product of approximately EUR 19 billion distributed among the three levels of local authorities. Approximately 21% of the CVAE paid by businesses is paid by the manufacturing sector. This contribution particularly penalizes companies in need of regular renewal of their productive tool and the most capital intensive sectors. However, as the rates defined in this Article are currently in force, certain undertakings will be de facto excluded from this scheme. The aim of my amendment is to ensure that this tax reduction will benefit all businesses and not just the larger ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u268	This Article 3 benefits all companies that pay for the CVAE – all of them, I insist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u269	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u270	Of course, those who earn less than EUR 500000 in turnover and who do not pay the CVAE do not benefit from its decrease. When you don't pay a tax, you don't get the discount, I'll give it to you. Your amendments, which are therefore not relevant, also pose an important technical problem: you only change the actual rate, without changing the theoretical rate, whereas it must be higher than the actual rate. That's not possible! How, for example, could we arrive at an effective rate of 1.5% with a theoretical rate of 0.75%? I repeat: far from being limited to large companies, this measure will benefit SMEs and ITEs by 75%. Your vision of Article 3 is wrong. I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u272	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u273	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u274	I am obviously in favour of these amendments because aid must go to small businesses. At the beginning of the session, Bruno Le Maire told us that the originators have a responsibility towards their subcontractors, and that he appealed to their sense of ethics. Here is a very concrete case of subcontractors, to be resolved urgently. I call the government benches as I called Bruno Le Maire in the hallways. While you have allocated EUR 15 billion to aeronautics, the subcontractor Aeronautics and Space Assistance – AAA – is about to remove 650 jobs under a social plan that, according to lawyers, is so delusional that they didn't even believe it could exist. The reclassification leave would be four months – as little as ever! This happens in a subcontracting company of Airbus, a group whose state is a shareholder, which has received billions of euros in times of crisis and which signs commitment charters on relations between customers and suppliers within the French aviation industry. I say to the Government: you cannot let that happen; you cannot allow subcontracting and its employees to be abused in this way; you must respond urgently; You cannot allow cases like this to be settled only between the management of the company and the employees. It is essential that the state – a money lender and Airbus shareholder – get around the table with the management, the employees and the contractor Stelia, a subsidiary of Airbus, to put an end to the face-to-face. This must be done urgently, otherwise the plan will be signed tomorrow morning and the employees will go in shorts. It is now that you must intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u275	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u276	Our exchanges, which tend to nail big companies to the pillori, are worrying me. Every time, we get the big names out. Which are these large companies that generate more than 1.5 billion euros in turnover? Hermès, Vuitton, La Poste, GRDF, groups that also produce in France. Let's stop stigmatizing these big companies. Even if I hear what you're saying, I remind you that companies form a whole: there are also employees, people who take risks, employers. It is not always necessary to stand against each other, and to nail to the pilori the big companies that make many people live in our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. Mrs. Lise Magnier also applauds]] Let's stop stigmatizing them. Let's help all companies to help all employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u277	Amendment No 2355 by Mr Laurent Saint-Martin is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u278	I have before me six amendments, Nos 113, 421, 694, 734, 877 and 878, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 113, 421, 694, 734 and 877 are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 113, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u279	The tax on commercial surfaces – TASCOM – certainly deserves a broader debate in view of the tax distortions and also the distortions of competition that exist between the players in the sector: the local businesses were hard hit by the health crisis and containment while e-commerce companies benefited rather from it. As a damper, we propose to include TASCOM in the calculation of the 2% cap on the value added of two other taxes on factors of production, the CFE and the CVAE.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u280	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 421.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u281	We want to integrate TASCOM into the calculation of the 2% cap on the value added of two other taxes on factors of production: TASCOM is also a production tax, particularly for businesses, since it is based in part on their turnover. At a time when businesses are suffering from the crisis to the point that many of them risk closure, especially in small and medium-sized cities, we propose to cap this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u282	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u283	The ceiling is only provided for the old business tax – the CFE and the CVAE. Why not include built land and TASCOM? I tabled this amendment to stimulate government thinking. What do you think, Minister Delegate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u284	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 734.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u285	In line with my previous amendment, the aim here is to ensure that traders and artisans in our city centres benefit from the reduction in production taxes. It is a matter of coherence: we must find a way to also support small businesses which, as the rapporteur-general has pointed out, will not benefit from the reduction in production taxes decided by the Government. Hence this measure of solidarity and equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u286	Amendments Nos 877 and 878 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u287	They address an important problem, but they do not address it. Indeed, they propose to include TASCOM in the calculation of the value added cap – ACP – of two other taxes on the factors of production, the property contribution of enterprises and the contribution on the value added of enterprises, which concern all enterprises – with the exception, for the CVAE, of enterprises which make up less than 500,000 euros of turnover – and all sectors of activity. In doing so, these amendments lead to the division of the ACP and undermine the principle of equality before taxation in all sectors of activity. I am therefore against the adoption of these amendments, which undermine the ACP, especially since if they were adopted, logically, the ceiling would be reached more quickly. The adjustment would therefore be more important. The measure would be dangerous and risky from the point of view of the management of public finances and state accounts. I repeat: I cannot be in favour of such a device. Having said that, it must be recognized that TASCOM, as it exists today, is not a satisfactory device for digital giants. We cannot be satisfied with the treatment gap between our traders and Amazon, which benefits from more advantageous taxation. This problem, we're going to have to fix it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u288	In the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u289	If you have any solutions that work, I'm a taker, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u290	We've got some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u291	You're critical, but you don't have a lot of solutions to offer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u292	To date, I have not been aware of any satisfactory solution to reform TASCOM. Warehouse taxation doesn't work! If we tax warehouses, Amazon will manage to circumvent the law and open showrooms, we know that. An incalculable number of reports have been produced on the subject, more or less formal, but no proposed measure has demonstrated its effectiveness. In fact, we only have two solutions: either taxation from the bottom and the abolition of TASCOM: no more companies will pay it but is it responsible from the point of view of public finances? Or a reform of the taxation of digital giants, undertaken multilaterally – this is obviously the best approach. In any case, we are well aware of the difficulties that TASCOM entails for our traders and artisans, especially in medium-sized cities, but the integration of this tax into the ACP cannot be the solution. This debate is nevertheless interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u294	For the same reasons, unfavorable opinion. The ceiling has been designed to limit the effects of the reform of the trade tax and its transformation into two taxes, to which these amendments propose adding different taxes by their nature and purpose. In addition, the rapporteur-general pointed out that, with the proposed measure, the ceiling would be crossed more quickly and would lead to a reduction, since, I would remind you, companies that benefit from the ceiling as well as from protection do not cost the affected community of the resource: the State takes over and compensates beyond the ceiling. It is now reduced to accompany the drop in production taxes, but the addition of new contributions would help to break the ceiling and increase the cost to the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u295	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u296	We misunderstood each other, Mr. President! I have amendments concerning the consideration of companies that will benefit from tax cuts and I was suggesting that they be presented in a joint debate so that they do not have to go back to it. In the word I sent you, I proposed to explain it to you during a session suspension. It's no big deal, I'll come back to these amendments later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u297	You're better at speaking than in writing, Mr. Orphelin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u298	I come to TASCOM, which we have been discussing for three years. We do not agree with the rapporteur-general's analysis that no solution would exist. Our colleague Delphine Batho tabled a bill on the subject in June 2020 – we will return the text to you, rapporteur-general. Solutions exist, including to prevent Amazon from using showrooms. You do not want to implement them: it is a political choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u299	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u300	However, we have been asking in this House for three years, in a transparant manner, that the problems posed by TASCOM be dealt with and that the majority say that this is not possible. Yes, it is possible: solutions exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u301	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u302	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] You are lions in front of the citizens: you are able to establish confinement – I do not dispute this –, you are able to decide that one should not go more than 1 kilometer from home, you are able to impose on people to stay at home, you are able to impose on them not to set foot outside from 9 p.m.! All this, you are able to do it, you are lions in front of the citizens, but you are carpets in front of Amazon and company!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u303	On all the amendments, he makes his registration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u304	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] I'm saying what I think! I think you're carpets and you're going to bed before you even struggle. You're doormats and you're walking on it. Sounds like you're enjoying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u305	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u306	Don't insult us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u307	There are limits, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u308	You choose to bow in front of Bridgestone and Amazon. After bending in front of them on a social level, you are now taxing yourself! Because to whom will the reduction in production taxes benefit the most? I would point out that TASCOM is not about labour, but about land tenure. Companies that use the largest number of square meters will therefore benefit, i.e. the logistics sector, which has large warehouses: Amazon! What, moreover, will be the environmental impact of this measure, which encourages the conquest of land by concrete, now less taxed? I repeat, you're not trying anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u309	Yes, things have been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u310	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] More than three years ago, when he took office, Bruno Le Maire solemnly pledged to introduce, within six months, a tax on digital giants. He claimed that he wanted to be judged on this reform, which had to be implemented within two years... Almost four years have passed, and nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u311	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u312	Mr General, Mr Deputy Minister, you recognise that TASCOM is a problem and you stress the difficulty of taxing warehouses. Basically, you agree with our arguments for a comprehensive reform of local taxation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u313	I've already answered you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u314	It is only through it that the solutions to the difficulties that you stress can be found. After the housing tax, the measures you are now taking with regard to local taxation continue to break the link between the citizen and the local public service. This is a real problem, to which you do not provide any solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u315	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u316	Mrs Louwagie, I have already answered you about the reform of local taxation and I know that you agree with me: this is not the time to commit it to this finance bill for 2021. This very long-term reform requires re-establishing the link with taxpayers, whether businesses or households. On the other hand, as the delegate rightly pointed out, the issue of fiscal autonomy needs to be re-examined. We will not be able to settle it today, as we face an emergency: that of helping companies to be more competitive. No viable solution for TASCOM can be decided within the framework of this text. You are, in my opinion, perfectly aware of this. Let us not vote for dangerous measures, even if their original intention is good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u317	You've been here for three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u318	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You must be satisfied, Mr. Ruffin: you have your video capsule, it will be shooting all day!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u319	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u320	You won't get me out of my gonds and I'll answer you in a very serene way. When they send me e-mails or ask me about a subject, my policy is always the same – and that's the instruction I give to my team: when it comes to debate, we give an answer; when the register is that of insult, it is no longer debate and we do not answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u321	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u322	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You are insulting us: from now on, you will no longer receive a reply to your amendments and my opinion will always be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u323	Mrs Magnier and Mr de Courson tell me that they are withdrawing their amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u324	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 2116.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u325	It aims to prevent the territorial economic contribution ceiling – CET – currently set at 3% of the added value of enterprises from being lowered to 2%. Indeed, we do not accept that no consideration should be sought in exchange for the reduction in production taxes. The Government is now depriving itself of the levers to guide the economy while a social and ecological transition is essential. Thus, the companies that will benefit most from the drop in production taxes are particularly harmful and polluting since they belong to the extractive industry and to the production of gas and electricity and are highly financed companies. The Government's economic policy is absolutely absurd! Mr Minister Delegate, the rapporteur-general says that the companies benefiting from the reduction in production taxes will be asked for compensation, but Bruno Le Maire said the opposite in an interview. So who's telling the truth? What is the actual content of the budget presented to us? The reduction in uncompensated production taxes is fully borne by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. It will, on the other hand, have a budgetary counterpart: with what you give to big companies, it will be 20 billion euros in loss of profits for the state funds! [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] As with the CICE, companies are not being asked for anything. The Economic Analysis Board had also recommended that the Government compensate for these reductions by stopping large payments under the IECC. You know you give at a loss and you don't create jobs, but you're obstinate! The same logic is at work today, by which the State, unable to engage in the necessary ecological turning point and to enforce minimum social justice in our country, has completely lost control: this logic leads us straight into the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u326	I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u327	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 704.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u328	Sitting suspension!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u329	This amendment is simple: it aims to integrate taxes on built land into the reduction of the cap on the TEC, which already includes the ACV and the CFE. I never understood why it had never been done. The Government itself recognizes that this is necessary since it proposes, in another article, the removal of the CFE and taxes on built land for industrial establishments – I will vote in favour of this provision. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the current 3% cap represents a cost of approximately EUR 1.2 billion. Minister Delegate, why leave the built land aside?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u331	I have explained this in committee: this choice is consistent because built land concerns households and businesses and the ACP is strictly an economic tax. The inclusion in the TEC cap of a tax that affects both households and businesses does not seem appropriate. It is logical that built land should not be included in the TEC's value-added cap. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u333	I would point out, as with the previous amendments, that the nature of the tax that you propose to incorporate differs from that of the other taxes concerned. I therefore agree with the rapporteur-general and express an unfavourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u334	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u335	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] My colleague Clémentine Autain has just asked a clear and precise question to the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate, to which they have not answered. Relax, ladies and gentlemen! This question concerned a discrepancy between the rapporteur-general and Minister Le Maire. Could we please have an answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u336	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 415 and 1803. Amendment No 415 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor to support Amendment No. 1803.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u337	It is simply a matter of making the ACV paid to local authorities more predictable. Companies should have more time and the deposit should be paid in December rather than September; It would thus be fairer and closer to reality, which would help to avoid bumps.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u338	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u339	Mrs Fiat, I explained that from the moment there were insults, there was no debate. You have called us sparrows: I consider this to be an insult; There will therefore be no debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u340	It's outrageous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u341	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] At some point, you'll have to understand where you are: here is the National Assembly. That's enough, you don't insult your colleagues. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u342	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u343	You're disrespectful! Go to the circus, if you prefer...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u344	Mr Cazeneuve, we do not agree with your proposal to shift the payment of the deposit by a quarter – I maintain what I said to you in committee, and perhaps the Minister-in-Office will be able to decide. It would not change anything since, even if – I grant it to you – it is used to pay the tax of year n, its base is calculated on year n-1. What would that change? Really, I don't understand: whether the deposit is made in September or December, he remains seated on the same amount. I therefore maintain my unfavorable opinion; If I am wrong, the minister delegate will say so and I may be able to change my mind, but that is how I understand your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u346	The rapporteur-general is rarely, if ever, wrong; For me, it's comfortable. I have two arguments to request the withdrawal of the amendments by Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Cazeneuve. First, postponing this payment would result in the companies being asked to simultaneously pay the EACV deposit and the balance of EAC, which, in terms of cash flow, appears to be inconsistent with the stated objective. Secondly, with regard to predictability for local authorities, the payment of the deposit in October – taking into account possible modulations – allows the DGFiP to make a reliable forecast, between 98.5% and 100%, of the following year's revenue. However, the delay in payment, taking into account possible modulations, would make it impossible for the DGFiP to have such a reliable forecast in the first two months of the year, prior to the review and vote of community budgets. For these two reasons, I therefore request the withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u347	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u348	I would like to know when, during the course of defending his amendment, my colleague Clementine Autain insulted you. She clearly outlined the amendment and asked you a clear question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u349	You weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u350	I kindly ask that answers be given to my colleague Clementine Autain's question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u351	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u352	Convinced by the technical explanations of the Minister, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u353	I'm taking it out, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u354	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 308, 357, 416, 889 and 2549. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 308, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u355	This is a transitional arrangement for equalisation between regions. I will leave it to my colleague Émilie Bonnivard, who is a regional adviser to the beautiful Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, to present this protective mechanism which we wish to see applied in the year 2021 alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u356	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u357	I thank my colleague Fabrice Brun for allowing us to speed up the debate. The purpose of this amendment is to apply to the gross VAT product which each region will receive in 2021 a system of absolute levies and payments corresponding to the amounts collected or levied in 2020 under the regional resources equalisation fund, in order to allow the net amount received in 2021 by each region in the context of the substitution of a fraction of VAT for the EACV to be exactly the same as in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u358	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 416.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u359	We have discussed this with the regions of France: in order to avoid any communicating effects, this amendment aims to freeze the existing equalisation: if this were not the case, significant imbalances could arise, as a result of the evolution of the crisis – it did not necessarily affect all regions in the same way. This amendment reached consensus among the regions; It is therefore not a question of opposing them. It would provide protection under the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u360	The identical amendments No 889 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u361	I believe that we all agree with the regions of France that we must ensure that equalisation is maintained, even if it is not very high, in the context of the transformation of the CVAE into a fraction of VAT. We must resume the partnership agreement – which is the basis of our discussion – between the Government and the regions. They undertake to review the equalization system that exists between them in 2021, for a legislative translation into the PLF for 2022. It is expected that "for the year 2021, the current rules of the equalization system will remain unchanged"; That is what we need to translate into law. The share of VAT received in 2021 will be equal to the VAAE received by the regions in 2020. The amendment which best expresses this objective is, in my view, No 2888 by Jean-René Cazeneuve, which makes it possible to integrate the equalisation stock of the year 2020 into the part of VAT received in 2021. For example, I look forward to meeting the commitment made within the framework of the partnership between the Government and the regions: we will thus respect the agreement that has been reached with the regions. Perhaps the Government will be able to make further clarifications on this agreement, but that is how I understand it. I therefore call for the withdrawal of these amendments, in favour of Mr Cazeneuve's, which we will then consider; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u362	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor to support Amendment No. 2888.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u363	It is simply a matter of applying to the letter the protocol signed between the regions and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u364	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 309, 417 and 890. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 309.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u365	It aims to synchronize the future share of VAT allocated to the regions in Article 3 of the PLF with the budgetary mechanisms of these communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u366	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 417.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u367	It is not intended to modify the purposes of Article 3, but rather the arrangements for allocating the new part of VAT granted as compensation to the regions. Instead of inventing new arrangements, we suggest that you proceed as we did recently, when we substituted a fraction of VAT for the overall operating allocation of the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u368	Amendment No 890 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u369	Between the examination in committee and the sitting, the technical arrangements for calculating and paying VAT were precisely clarified between the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the regions. I will let the minister delegate state that, but I think your amendments are satisfactory. Request for withdrawal, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u371	As from 1 January 2021, the regions will benefit from a fraction of VAT to replace the CVAE; it will be paid to them by twelfths, from the advance account. These twelfths will be equal to the payment of ACVAE that they should have received in 2021 on the basis of the amounts collected in 2020. The regions will therefore benefit from regular monthly advances of VAT as early as 2021. Payments to the regions from the advance account to the local authorities will be seated from January 2022 on the twelfths of VAT paid in 2021; Consequently, pending the determination of the rate defined by the EAC-to-VAT ratio at the beginning of 2022, the regions will receive their twelfths of VAT in an amount equivalent to 2021, without any break in the payments. A adjustment will be made once the final amount of VAT collected in 2021 is known. The concern of the various authors of these amendments therefore seems to me to be satisfied, since there will be both predictability and a form of linearity in the payment of the twelfth VAT to the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u372	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1810 and 2715. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor to support Amendment No. 1810.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u373	The aim of this clarification amendment is to ensure that the compensation paid to the regions will be properly paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u374	Amendment No 2715 by Mr Laurent Saint-Martin is defended
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u375	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 2065.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u376	He proposed limiting the exceptional reduction in production taxes to two years, to link it to the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u378	It is unfavourable, because there is nothing worse than the zigzag effect in taxation. I assume that the reduction in production taxes must be sustained; It is good for the competitiveness of our industries, and I do not think that it should be limited to two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u380	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u381	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u382	Your opinion reinforces our desire to link this measure to a range of counterparties, at least for large companies; We will make proposals in this direction. We find ourselves with a tax reduction assumed which, by registering in time – as the rapporteur-general has repeated – will result in a loss of revenue for the State; EUR 10 billion will have to be found elsewhere a year, unless the deficit continues to widen. We hope that other resources will be considered, or at least that commitments will be made by the largest companies, which will benefit most of the reduction in production taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u383	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2119, 2075, 1731, 2532, 2577, 1219 and 2838, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 2075, I have a request from the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group for a public vote. On Article 3, I also have before me a request for a public vote, by the Socialist and related groups. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2119, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 2947.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u384	This amendment provides for downward adjustments to the ACVEN. Since the beginning of our discussions, we have repeatedly stressed that this mechanism will not be as effective as you claim in terms of job creation, in particular because you do not protect the European market, and there is a risk of paying dividends. Protecting oneself is necessary to prevent public money from being distributed in the form of dividends. The aim of the amendment is therefore to make the reduction of CVAE conditional on social, environmental and tax obligations: non-payment of dividends; non-possession of assets in a tax haven; the submission of an annual report setting out the path of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 in order to achieve the targets set by the national greenhouse gas emission ceiling; Finally, the establishment of a vigilance plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u385	[[Smile]] Since your amendment was considered imperfect, Mrs Pires Beaune wants to amend it, Mr Bricout. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 2947.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u386	Indeed, Mr. President. It is simply intended to clarify that the requested report will be made public.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u387	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 2075.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u388	It aims to make reductions in production taxes conditional on compliance with binding climate and social commitments, for companies with a turnover of more than 40 million euros – rather the big ones, therefore. In order to benefit from reductions in production taxes, it will be necessary not only to publish and comply with a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also to make commitments on non-localization of activities and respect for equality between men and women. These obligations do not condition the immediate tax reduction; In exchange, we will simply have to meet commitments on climate change, non-delocalisation of jobs and corporate social responsibility – CSR – including gender equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u389	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1731.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u390	It pursues the same objective as Amendment No 2119, this time focusing on the green economy. It calls for the publication, no later than 1 July of each year and from 1 July 2021 onwards, of a climate report that incorporates the company's direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, both upstream and downstream of its activities, and develops a strategy to reduce these emissions. It also requires that all or all of the activities of the enterprise are not relocated and not voluntarily transferred abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u391	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2532.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u392	We refuse to offer 20 billion euros without targeting, without matching, and, for the moment, without conditions! One of the conditions that we want to impose is, of course, the environmental, ecological condition: we do not want these sums to go to polluting industries, whereas the economic analysis board, in a note on the reduction of production taxes, said that the measure would first benefit the gas and electricity industry, then the extractive industries, and finally finance. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore the minimum to provide for compensation for the allocation of these new aid. However, we must understand the exasperation of the situation when, in the end, the state pays 20 billion per year of tax credits competitiveness employment without consideration, without targeting and without conditions, when the solidarity tax on wealth is abolished without targeting, without consideration and without conditions, when the flat tax is created without targeting, without consideration and without conditions, and when 20 billion gifts are now added to it. It's always more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u393	Both Amendments Nos 2577 and 1219 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u394	They pursue the same objective. This reduction in production taxes is to be welcomed, and I would like to say so on behalf of the majority and the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, because it will give fresh impetus to our businesses, especially the smallest,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u395	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u396	...and it's all at stake in the recovery plan to preserve jobs. Nevertheless, the necessary return to economic growth must be coupled with an ecological transition. We have to bet both. That is why these amendments are intended to make the reduction of the EAC conditional on the fulfilment of clear commitments set out in the national low-carbon strategy, in this case the fulfilment of a minimum greenhouse gas emission trajectory for companies with more than EUR 500 million in annual turnover, i.e. the largest. They are in keeping with the provisions that we passed in the third amending finance bill, which also made certain tax measures conditional on the fulfilment of ecological commitments. Amendment No 2577, which I tabled in my personal capacity, co-signed by several colleagues, is somewhat more ambitious than the second amendment, tabled by the draftsman on behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development, since it concerns greenhouse gas emissions not only in France but also abroad and proposes a penalty not only of 2 % of the total annual turnover but also more firm, with the refund of the amount of aid. These amendments, I repeat, make it possible to reconcile both support for businesses and the ecological transition, which our majority has made a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u397	I call Mr Alauzet to support Amendment No. 2838.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u398	Let me instead place this debate on the register of trust and responsibility. This amendment proposes that companies with an annual turnover of more than €500,000 and affected by this decline in the ACVEN publish each year a commitment statement listing their various proposals, from a multi-annual perspective, on these subjects to which the Government, like ourselves in the Finance Committee and in the majority group, is committed and on which it wishes to make progress, whether it be energy transition, governance or gender equality, in short all the subjects that can be linked to the societal responsibility of companies. For the ambition is to mobilize companies – and beyond all the players in society – to meet these enormous challenges. We invite them, in return for our efforts to revive the economy, to engage in a profound transformation. It's really choosing the trusted party. We cannot remain in a permanent tear of society by constantly calling for revolt and division of the French, this is not the right way to deal with issues that we must all address together. Most entrepreneurs are also aware of these issues: so let's go with them, let's trust them. Certainly, some will see it as a form of naivety, but I don't think we will make any further progress. And then, it's the interest of companies because it's their reputation and it's even the interest of their shareholders. They will therefore progress on these subjects and not only in France, which would make no sense, but everywhere in the world. This amendment proposes a comprehensive approach, in the wake of what we have discussed in our majority, to give more depth and meaning to our proposals, in the logic of the PACTE law – on the growth and transformation of companies – and of the amendment by our colleague Bérangère Abba that we adopted during the review of the PLFR2 to accompany the financial efforts towards the major automotive and aeronautics sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u399	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u400	I will repeat my position on the amendments on eco-conditionality or employment conditionality relating to production taxes, it is clear and constant: the reduction of production taxes is not the right tool, particularly in France, to ask companies for counterparties. It is also not the right article to ask companies for matching under the recovery plan. I have already said publicly, on several occasions, that reciprocal commitments are needed, but I think that direct government financing for business investment is much more appropriate – the issue is therefore much more a matter of budgetary appropriations than of taxation. Above all, it is necessary to ask for counterparties or to lay down conditions for companies when they can benefit from budgetary appropriations, i.e. subsidies, whereas a reduction in taxation is no more or less than a approximation with the standard level of our European neighbours in this field. We must have this debate calmly. I am in favour of asking companies that benefit from the recovery plan for counterpart payments. This is quite normal, since it is still public money, so in return they must prove that they are making progress in environmental, social and value-sharing matters. Amendments from all sides were tabled in the second part of the PLF on the "Relaunch" mission. We will then have this debate and I am already indicating that I will be in favour of some of them. However, it is not necessary for companies to perceive this type of amendment and the measures they provide for in a logic of constraint: these amendments must accompany the recovery plan, because it is not a question of opposing the strategy of companies and public investment or tax expenditure. These challenges need to be addressed in concert, whether in terms of the acceleration of ecological transition and improvement of working life, the development of paternity leave, the sharing of value or equality between women and men on boards of directors and on executive committees: all these advances must be accompanied by the recovery plan. In this regard, various measures will have to be included in the law, but, I repeat, this will be in the second part. I repeat, we must reject these amendments, which are not in the right place and which are not good tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u401	This is never the right time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u402	However, as the ecological dimension is essential to them, I would remind you that the recovery plan strongly encourages companies to invest in their own ecological transition in terms of their production tool: €1.2 billion is devoted to helping decarbonisation of industry through the evolution of processes, €200 million will accompany SMEs in the thermal renovation of their buildings, €400 million will be dedicated to agroecology and €200 million to greening of ports, not to mention the direct investment of the state in hydrogen, which amounts to €2 billion in the only recovery plan and overall to €7 billion until 2030. We share, ladies and gentlemen, the same objectives: to make businesses more green and socially more so. But I believe, in essence, that a reduction in taxes on production taxes must be conditional on the achievement of these objectives, at the outset, is to put an end to them as they reboot. It would be a collective nonsense. I really urge you not to adopt these amendments. I will conclude by stressing the firm will of this majority to go much further than all those who preceded it in financing the ecological transition. Bruno Le Maire presented Monday the French State's commitment to no longer guarantee international investments in oil and gas projects in 2025 and 2035.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u403	To the Saint-Glinglin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u404	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] No country has done so so far, we are pioneers in this field. It can always be considered that the deadline is too far away, that these are not the best tools, but that I am quoted at least one other country that has decided to remove the public guarantee on this type of international investment... There's no other one. Let us stop feeling an ecological shame in this country: let us look at everything that has been done in this field for the past three years and that continues to be done in the framework of this recovery plan with unrivalled voluntarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u405	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u406	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u407	The Government has had the opportunity on several occasions to express its views on the issues of counterpart and conditionality. There is a clear debate. The Government is in favour of companies making commitments and firmly pursuing the objectives recalled by the rapporteur-general: reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, equality between women and men at all levels of business and development of social dialogue – in which the social partners must participate. I fully share his arguments and will be brief as he has brilliantly explained his position and ours. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I do not believe that it is on an article on the reduction of production taxes that these cross-compliance amendments must be tabled. The reduction of taxation is inherently a unilateral decision, which must, inter alia, comply with the principle of equality with regard to taxation, making it difficult for the system to be put in place when it comes to imposing binding conditions. In the second part, we will have a debate on the 'Relaunch' mission and the recovery plan: as the rapporteur-general has pointed out, parliamentary own-initiative amendments and government own-initiative amendments will be tabled in order to give effect to the expectations I have mentioned in the recovery plan. The debate will be useful and, I know, nourished. At this stage, it is a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavourable opinion for the reasons already set out by the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u408	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u409	I agree with what the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate have just said, because this is indeed a particularly important subject. First of all, it is a question of which tool we are talking about precisely: I would remind you that value added taxation is about wages and investment. To condition this tax reduction as part of a stimulus plan would therefore make no sense, since this would lead companies to tax more wages and investments. The tool cannot work. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, although, as the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate have explained, this article is technically the wrong place to address this issue, it is essential. I agree with my colleague Eric Alauzet on this point: it is not a question of looking at it from the point of view of sanctions, but rather of accompanying arrangements to help our companies fully engage in the ecological transition, to improve their commitments to parity and to strengthen social dialogue. But this issue must be dealt with at the right time in the debate, that is, during the examination of the "Relaunch" mission, in the second part. The majority will then put forward an amendment to move forward both on the subject of greenhouse gas emissions, on the subject of parity and on the subject of social dialogue. I urge colleagues, at least the majority, to withdraw their amendments, knowing that we will have this debate on the right subject at the right time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u410	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u411	First of all, I thank the colleagues of the majority who defend these ideas for having the courage to do so. I hope, of course, that they will retain them because they do not vote for the EDS Group. But it is always the same answer, this debate is still postponed. This will be the fourth time: after the PLFR1, 2 and 3, we are now asked to wait for the second part of the PLF. It's not serious. It is not more so to pretend that we have done so much for ecology and for the climate that we have become the world champions in this field! After three years in office, you really can't say that. Moreover, this PLF does not respect the recommendations of the High Council for Climate which, in its special report on the recovery plan, stresses that every euro for recovery must be a useful euro for the climate. And that is what we are proposing here: we do not oppose the 10 billion reduction in production taxes, we simply want to condition them with medium-term commitments. If we can't do this, it's flute, because we have to realize that we are debating not a few million euros, but 10 billion a year over ten to fifteen years. This is the largest amount of medium-term expenditure planned, because, if the recovery plan stops in two years' time, this tax reduction is made to last – the rapporteur-general is in favour of stability in tax matters. However, no consideration is foreseen in exchange, even in the medium term. This article is therefore completely false in relation to what the High Council for Climate is advocating. It may be the choice of the Government and the majority not to comply with its recommendations, and this is the case in this PLF, but it seems to us a fundamental mistake. If we are not even able to predict any environmental compensation, there is no point in pretending to develop a green budget and pretending to be the best in the world. I repeat: all this is flute!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u412	Piss off!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u413	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2075.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u414	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 16 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u415	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2615, 2656, 2499 and 2505 which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 2615.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u416	The Minister Delegate believes that the debate on counterparties should take place later in the discussion of the text. On the contrary, we believe that, when large tax rebates are granted, we need to know what they are, what they are useful for, and what the meaning of those gains is, much of which will benefit large companies. You invoke the principle of equality before the tax. I maintain that the equality you are defending is curious, since the effort of small businesses is, in proportion, much higher than that of large companies. Above all, you ensure that counterparties will intervene later, through other types of public policies. Let us take one example: the measure you are proposing will allow large companies to earn up to 9 billion euros. On the other hand, you are injecting €7 billion over three years to promote thermal renewal, when everyone knows that if we were to seriously address this major issue of the current climate and environmental crisis, we would have to spend €25 to €30 billion per year for ten years: €7 billion is a joke. Realize that you are making minimalist efforts, which in no way meet the current challenges, not more environmental than social, and that at the same time you are making extraordinary large sums of money to big companies by continuing to inject them with colossal sums – financed by public money, therefore by our contribution to all – that are then lost in an absolute nothingness. When it comes to controlling those who will go to Pôle emploi tomorrow, you do not have the hand to vote for counterparts, constraints and obligations to point out and prove that they are looking for a job: there is no difficulty in finding in this Chamber hands that stand up to approve such measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u417	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u418	On the other hand, when it comes to big companies, you believe in the virtues of trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u419	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2656.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u420	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The language element that this measure would be part of the recovery plan must be deconstructed. This tax reduction, you wanted to do it before – it will not be enough: others will follow – and it will apply for eternity. It has nothing to do with recovery, and it will in no way favour the recovery of the economy. It is simply a matter of offering, as you have done since the beginning of the legislature, gifts to the 0,1 % of the richest French. It is the reports of France strategy et al., attached to the Prime Minister's office, that bear witness to this. What you do is gifts to your class, to your families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u421	Come on, one more insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u422	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's not an insult: class affiliations exist! You're defending the interests of your class, which I fully understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u423	Let him stop, it's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u424	You're defending your business!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u425	It's provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u426	It's not a provocation, it's the truth. All this is done again, without targeting and without compensation. You're about to give billions to companies that pay hundreds of millions of euros in dividends while resorting to partial unemployment and lay-off – and that doesn't bother you! You have seen how the Auchan Group is doing, which removes 1475 jobs when it is the private company that has received the most money from the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – but you have no consequences: all this seems legitimate to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u427	We're paying taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u428	You don't mind! When you talk about setting conditions or matching for companies, you use the future: it will be necessary, but it is not the place; You'll see if we can predict it, but not at this point in the text. Doesn't this pose bother you morally?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u429	I would remind you that we are in the Chamber of the National Assembly, where we are free to speak. The rapporteur-general was right to point out that insult is banned from this place, but the rest is the freedom of conscience and expression of each of the Members. On 17 June 2017, we were all invested in a mission: to debate in this Chamber. Mr Ruffin, like all of us, has won the right to speak. Amendments Nos 2499 by Mrs Sabine Rubin and 2505 by Mr Eric Coquerel are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u430	We differ on the question of whether employment is decreed. You believe that employment can be created by setting conditions and defining indicators, ceilings or obligations. On the contrary, I believe that employment is being created, and unfortunately sometimes it is being destroyed, on the basis of turnover, i.e. the ability of manufacturers to sell their products, the ability of companies in the service sector to offer services or the ability of farmers to produce – everything that makes private companies healthy. The job is not decreed: attempts to move in this direction have never worked. You can condition the aid paid to maintain a minimum level of employment, but it is economic life that will decide this level of employment. That is why we want to arm our economy to create jobs. On this point, our approaches differ – there is no point in discussing them for weeks. Some have tried to decree employment in the past. It didn't work and it doesn't fit our vision of things. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u431	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u432	I share the arguments put forward by the rapporteur-general. I'm not going back and I'm making an unfavorable opinion. You were right, Mr President, to point out that the House is free to speak. Since she's free, I'm going to enjoy it, because there are things that are unbearable to hear. I've reached where I am thanks to the public school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u433	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u434	I am a thread of worker – and of a worker who was more often unemployed than at work. I went to school with the social worker who paid the canteen instead of my parents. I worked in factories in the summer to finance my graduate studies and was accompanied, to prepare the competitions, by public school teachers who gave their time to help me review, because no one could afford to pay for the preparatory class that would have opened doors for me. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, IDU-I and Agir ens. – Mr. Vincent Thiébaut stands up and applauds]] Today, I defend Emmanuel Macron's action because I find the same values as my mother instilled in me: we get out of life by working and respecting others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u435	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u436	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, IDU-I and Active ens]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, IUD-I and Agir ens. – Several Members of the LaREM Group rise and applaud]] I am here before you and at this bench because the President of the Republic has focused his entire political commitment on giving everyone the chance to succeed, on individual emancipation and on trust in the diversity of paths. It is an immense pride and I will never let you question this majority, the President of the Republic and the journeys like mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u437	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u438	[[Mr Charles de Courson protested]] There are class defectors on both sides. But what are you actually proposing? Letting the invisible hand of the market, which does not work anymore: we water, the millions will leak and the employment will germinate. The only alternative you can imagine is the administered economy. We should therefore choose: either free trade and laissez-faire, or the administered economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u439	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u440	You do not understand that between these two poles, very many possibilities, which you do not exploit at all, would make it possible to influence companies, including the large companies you prefer to constantly bow to, in order to direct their energy, capital, know-how and labour towards the strategic interests of the nation. But you refuse to lead them: you let them do it, hoping that they will go in the right direction, even if everyone knows for decades that they do not. Between the administered economy you describe and your laissez-faire, there are wide room for manoeuvre to be exploited, which you refuse to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u441	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 2667.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u442	We touch there at the heart of what opposes us. Deputy Minister: the fact that you have managed to get to the Government when you have grown up in difficult social conditions is not a guarantee that the policy you are leading will be in favour of those who need to get out of it. Proof of this is that you explain that you have to succeed individually and that when you want, you can.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u443	Because it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u444	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u445	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the contrary, we believe that our political responsibility is to get out of the meritocratic logic behind your action and to accompany the economy in creating more justice and equality. If some find no employment, it is primarily due to unfair public policies, deteriorating public services, and the absence of tight hands. When unemployment rates reach the levels we currently see, you cannot say that those on the side of the road have sought it well and that it is enough to cross the street to find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u446	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u447	That's what the President of the Republic says! That is also your point, Minister Delegate: because you have succeeded, everyone can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u448	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u449	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] But this is not true in today's society, and it will be even less so in the society that you are building for tomorrow, because it is made of injustices and you give to the richest, to those who have the most, while explaining to those who do not get out of it that it is their fault. That's what you're saying: it's their fault! No, it's not their fault! If they don't get away with it, it's because the quality of education is declining, because living conditions are declining, because, in the working-class neighbourhoods – we could talk about it for hours – the outlook is shrinking! So yes, I get angry when I hear that, for the inhabitants of the working-class neighbourhoods, it would be enough to want and respect others to find a job and get out of it: we do not live in the same world!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u450	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u451	That's because the debates are filmed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u453	I believe that what Mr Deputé wanted to say is that not everyone is heir to a political family and that the school of the Republic, the French republican system, allowed him to realize what he felt he had a vocation to do, namely to make politics at the service of others. I feel the same way and I could use the same words. This has nothing to do with individualism or meritocracy alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u454	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u455	Meritocracy is not a big word.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u456	It's even a cardinal value!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u457	It is rather a good principle in life to reward the most deserving. What the minister delegate said was that we live in a country where the Republic allows everyone to rise above their condition. To hear you, we have the feeling that we are evolving in each other's jungle for ourselves. It's deeply grotesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u458	They don't like the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u459	[[Mr Jean-Louis Bricout protested]] If you look a little objective, don't you notice the net job creation and the fall in unemployment in this country over the last three years? Couldn't we discuss these numbers together? Of course, the reduction of taxation is not necessarily the only tool and regulation is necessary because the invisible hand is not enough to make the economy work. But can we not accept that our action in the country for the past three years has created employment and investment and has put the country back on track that we have accelerated and prolonged a dynamic which, I recognise, was launched during the last quinquennium? It seems interesting to me that we are discussing it – the Assembly would thus play its part – rather than launching slogans, considering that nothing has been done, that we leave everyone on the side of the road. Have you noted that the level of social investment in our country has been maintained and even increased?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u460	We have also seen the level of poverty increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u461	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I did not hear you greet the announcements made yesterday by the President of the Republic: the payment of 150 euros to each family affecting the RSA or the increase of APLs of 100 euros per child. Mrs Autain, you are in the caricature and the slogan, that's why you stay between you. You may come from a political family, unlike the deputy minister and myself, you stay with each other while we speak to all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u462	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u463	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u464	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u465	I would like to speak to my colleague Autain. Perhaps we should remember that responsibilities are shared. The State takes its own when it supports the departments to finance the support of the beneficiaries of the RSA, when it puts resources at the disposal of the local missions to better accompany our young people, when it grants the necessary means for the duplication of classes – because it is our majority who took this measure. We must continue to work in this direction because these people need this support, these bridges between the economic sector and the social sector, two worlds that need to be able to dialogue in order to promote job creation. That is how we have given ourselves the means to fight poverty. What the Prime Minister will announce on Saturday will go in the same direction – we will be vigilant on this point. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Stop demagogy by saying that we would oppose those who can find a job to those who would not. That's not true. Everyone is able to do so, you just have to accompany these people by telling them the right doors. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u466	The poor thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u467	If there are another 1 million poor in France, it's good that there is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u468	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u469	Some oppositions are totally caricatural. While society is complex, you unnecessarily oppose categories of French. Some of them, of modest condition, have risen up in society thanks to work and are now contributing to the national effort and solidarity that enables the weakest to be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u470	The right is speaking to the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u471	If you generally degrade the working conditions of these people, you pull society and the French down. This is not how you will help the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods. We all agree that it is through work that we can find a place in society, be happy and free.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u472	When you're poor, you're hardly free!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u473	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I therefore do not understand the logic of thus opposing different social categories and the idea that, if we target, through taxes, those who get out of it, the most disadvantaged will be delighted and will be better. This way of looking at things is very wrong, reductive and populist. I don't share it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u474	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u475	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1510, 692 and 717, which can be presented together. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u476	I am not customary in the request for a report – it is a principle that I am trying to stick to. It happens, however, that Article 3 amounts to EUR 10 billion in the budget, which is all the less trivial since, as we have noted in the course of the discussions, questions about the substance remain. The Republicans adhere to the philosophy of reducing production taxes, but the cost of this measure must be taken into account. We would like you to submit to Parliament a report which would analyse, on the one hand, the impact of the scheme on the financial autonomy of local and regional authorities and, on the other hand, the way in which it is implemented in companies according to different criteria: the size of companies – on this point, you have given us some information, sufficient for today's vote, but which will have to be more precise once the measure comes into force – and possibly their business line, because it would be interesting to know which sectors benefit most from this measure, as well as the wage bill of these companies. Such information would inform national representation. Amendment No 692 provides for a report to be submitted on 1 January 2021, which is too short a deadline. The date indicated in No 717 shall be 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u478	You know my frustration – not always but often – about reporting requests because, first of all, this is an additional task for the administrations that need to focus on the implementation, in the coming months, of the current measures, including the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u479	We also need to be informed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u480	Mrs Le Grip, my opposition to the requests for a report is not systematic, but it must be recognised that we have a report because amendments of this type are frequent. I would add that Parliament has the power to monitor and evaluate, which should not be overlooked, for example through special rapporteurs, who are entrusted with this task under the Organic Law. In addition, your servant can help you if you need to carry out controls in the administrations. It must be kept in mind that, as foreseen by the constituent, monitoring and evaluation tasks can be carried out within Parliament itself. On the other hand, your amendments relate only to Article 3 – which is very logical. However, it would be interesting to make a real assessment of all production taxes, in particular the impact on local and regional authorities of the arrangements provided for in Articles 3 and 4 – the CVAE, the CFE and the TFPB. A steering committee, of which Éric Woerth and I are members, will soon begin working with the Prime Minister. We will be vigilant and I assume that local and regional authorities will be consulted either directly by the committee or through ad hoc work. The efficiency of the reduction of production taxes must of course be monitored, I agree with you. However, a request for a report today, prior to the implementation of the plan, does not seem relevant to me. I would therefore ask for these amendments to be withdrawn – and I would not agree with them – but I would point out that, in the context of parliamentary work, we will have to pay careful attention to the effectiveness of these measures not only on employment but also on communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u481	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u482	I share the opinion and conclusions of the rapporteur-general. I would add, Mrs Dalloz, on the question of the financial autonomy of the communities, that the assessment can already be made since, according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, constant in this matter, the allocation of a fraction of the national tax or of a compensation allowance does not in any way alter the financial autonomy, from the point of view of the criteria adopted under the Constitution – but we can have a debate on this point. Of course, the Government is committed to making available and sharing all the data it will have to feed the debate in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u483	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 418.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u484	This is a request for a report. I want to stress the territorial aspect of the issue. We really need to know the effects of the fall in production taxes, the distribution of tax gains and their geographical location. Few reports provide information on the impact of the arrangements on the territories. But here we are discussing territorial taxes. There is much talk about the level of compensation planned and the dynamics created by this tax reduction. However, one question arises: is it the end of the territorial taxation of enterprises, which created a link between the territory and its enterprises? The challenges of spatial planning are immense for society. There is now a concentration of activities, a phenomenon of metropolization. All the ills of our society are thus brought together in the same space: the problems of housing, transport and security, together with the health problems associated with the current crisis. To the extent that a territorial tax disappears, what tool will we have at our disposal to better adapt our territories tomorrow in order to ensure their economic development?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u485	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u486	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u487	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u488	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice as for other requests for reports. I would point out to Mr Bricout that the website planderelance.gouv.fr presents the full measures of the recovery plan and that, in the coming weeks and months, we will add, for each measure, an evaluation indicator which will include the territorial component. By visiting this site, you will know the impact of the drop in production taxes, department by department. Your amendment will therefore be satisfied with this tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u489	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u490	This amendment has the merit of pointing out that social inequalities are added to territorial inequalities, which is not nothing. Both are well documented. Let me respond to the inquiries I heard earlier. Some seem to forget that government policy has led to an increase in social inequalities in our country. I will only recall a simple indicator: the 0.1% of the richest French people today is a quarter of times richer than the 0.1% of the richest in 2017. The richest are therefore even richer. But you know well – since it made the headlines – that at the same time, an additional 1 million people have turned into poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u491	How many would have been there without the measures we have taken?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u492	So we have more poor people and more hyper-rich people. The mechanisms of social reproduction are known: 70 per cent of the children of managers are managerial, 70 per cent of the children of workers are employed in execution. I don't teach you anything: since at least Pierre Bourdieu, we know it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u493	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u494	We propose to break with the mechanisms of social reproduction but you do not want it. When you look at the effects of Parcoursup...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u495	On Pathup and its algorithms, I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u496	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... and to reflect on all the widths that you have given – such as the suppression of the ISF or the CICE – it is concluded that social inequalities will increase and that the intensity of social reproduction will increase. That's what we feel for you. This, moreover, joins your obsession with meritocracy and the idea that everything will go well since the market will self-regulate. Your logic leads the poor to be poorer and the rich to be richer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u497	I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u498	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 87 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 78 Against 9
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u499	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor to support Amendment No. 2628, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u500	This amendment responds to the difficulties anticipated in the coming months and prepares for the congestion of the commercial courts by providing for the extension of the solution adopted by Article 3 of the Financial Amendment Act for 2020 of 25 April 2020, which laid down the tax rules on the abandonment of rental claims, to the abandonment of debts of all kinds. It is thus proposed to extend the principle of deductibility of Article 39 of the General Tax Code to waivers of claims, waivers of revenue and aid of any kind for the creditor, even outside collective proceedings. As with the abandonment of the debt referred to in Article 39, 1-8 ° and in the interests of legal certainty for the undertakings concerned, the aid and the abandonment of the debt covered by this measure would be deductible without the need for the undertaking which consents to it or supports it to justify an interest in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u502	Unfavorable notice because you want to extend the principle to all claims and I do not think it is desirable. On the other hand, in the continuity of what had been done in LFR2 at the initiative of Mr Barrot, Mrs Louwagie or Mrs Grégoire, I think, because of the announcements made by the President of the Republic yesterday, that we will have to ask ourselves rather quickly about rents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u503	We asked you yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u504	It is very likely that the tools to assist in this area will need to be extended. Deductibility does not seem reasonable to me for all claims over the entire year 2021, but I agree with you that we will have to find quick solutions for rents in sectors that are particularly affected by these administrative restrictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u505	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u506	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u507	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u508	You consider me, Mr. Rapporteur-General. You missed yesterday the opportunity to provide answers to the question of rents, which you are referring to today. Various amendments were presented to you, which proposed different solutions, allowing our companies not to pay rent for a few months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u509	But in the meantime the President has spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u510	You say today that you have to catch up, but I don't want to think that you, in the majority, didn't know the situation at this point, or that would worry me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u511	The night was good advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u512	The President of the Republic announced last night something that called into question all your certainties; It's ridiculous. I'm sorry you didn't listen to us. In particular, we proposed solutions in which the private sector could account for half of the rents and share the other with the state. These were measured, thoughtful solutions that brought true answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u513	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u514	I feel the same sideration as my colleague. As you had yesterday, through several amendments, the possibility of answering the question of rents, you sent us a blow, all the amendments were rejected, and today, because the press has seized on the subject, you have to say what is, you tell us that perhaps something will have to be done. The art of procrastination has its limits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u515	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u516	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u517	First of all, I don't send anyone around, I argue every time, you'll allow me to point it out. I do not agree with your sideration. We have taken measures regarding rents and they are still in effect. The deductibility of the Barrot amendment voted in PLFR2 is still applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u518	Because the state of emergency has been extended!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u519	You're suggesting that we didn't do anything about the rents,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u520	I didn't say you didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u521	...but that's not true. The deductibility of rent cancellations is still in effect, and until the end of 2020. Don't tell anything either. You proposed amendments for 2021 because we are in the PLF for 2021: I maintain that they are not to be retained. They go much further than we have done. I say again that with the announcements of the President of the Republic in the face of the health situation, announcements that we all need to greet – and I confirm that I did not know them before twenty hours yesterday, which is quite understandable – there will be problems of burdens for some professionals, such as the restaurateurs, because of their lack of revenue on the evening turnover. These problems can be solved by the question of rent. Will this have to go through the solidarity fund? by tax measures? I don't know, but I maintain that the ones you proposed yesterday are not appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u522	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u523	As the rapporteur-general said, the various PLFRs, in particular PLFR2, provided a response for the year 2020 and the emergency periods. We are looking at the PLF for 2021 and I believe that we all hope that the situation will improve next year, so that we no longer have to take such exceptional measures. If that were to be the case, we have always shown that we know how to respond to the urgency. We are entering a second period, during which we are forced – the President of the Republic announced yesterday – to reduce the opening hours of some businesses and deprive them of the most profitable part of the day. This afternoon, Bruno Le Maire and the Prime Minister will announce measures that will apply in 2020 and will be financed either under the appropriations allocated in PLFR3, as I indicated last night when the recovery takes place, or through adjustments in PLFR4. Rest assured that the issue of rents in 2020 will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u524	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 1655, 1808, 2138 and 2156. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1655.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u525	On this amendment, I was about to say simply 'defended', but I will finally defend it, because it concerns rents, Mr General, and you have an opportunity to make up for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u526	But I have nothing to catch up with!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u527	This amendment proposes to extend by one year the measure, adopted in 2020, of exemption from rent rebates and the abandonment of rent claims voluntarily granted by owners to businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u528	Amendment No 1808 by Mrs Valérie Beauvais is being defended. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 2138.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u529	We discussed a great deal during the review of the various fiscal bills amending this topic, and we have adopted a solution, which nevertheless is only valid for 2020. We therefore propose a one-year extension. In view of what is happening, unfortunately, it would be prudent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u530	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u531	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2156.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u532	I have heard the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate. This provision was put in place for 2020, the amendment proposes its extension in 2021. I will withdraw it but I think that we will unfortunately be led to adopt it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u533	So let's do it now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u534	... in the first PLFR of 2021, if the health situation does not improve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u535	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u536	Thank you, Mrs. Magnier. I think you're right on the whole line about the important subject of deductibility. We need to move forward on the basis of what we understand about the crisis: I ask you to show humility collectively. I believe that the French state has shown an ability to adapt and react to the circulation of the virus, which can go through forced closures. What will result from yesterday's announcements is a few weeks that will have to be compensated for for some sectors. We are still in 2020 and I do not think we need to extend these measures today in 2021. [["Oh yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] We must collectively try to send economic recovery signals for 2021, let us be a little optimistic: if we extend everything by a year, we will send the message that everything will have to stay under bell in 2021 because we do not know what will happen. I'd rather work the other way. We are able to take urgent action when areas are under administrative pressure and we will do so for the next six weeks in the curfew areas. But let us not vote right now on the deductibility of the abandonment of rents for 2021 as if we knew in advance that the year will be difficult for the catering and the hotel industry. We don't know that. Let us work as we develop our knowledge of the situation: this is what we have been doing since March and I believe it has worked rather well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u537	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1744.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u538	Because of a technical error, this amendment was not signed by the many colleagues who wanted to support it. He's already been introduced. We need more than ever to help a transition, to get out of the model of a society of hyperconsumption where only appropriation makes sense, while we could promote other models, in which one acquires and shares the use of an object – this is called the economy of functionality; So the professionals will ensure that the products last longer. This amendment came from the anti-spousal law for a circular economy, where he had received a very favourable opinion although there was no place for it. That is why I am presenting him in the framework of the PLF, where he has his full place. It would not cost the state budget much while sending an important signal to the players in the circular economy. It provides 150% over depreciation for those who transform their business model into a model based on the economy of functionality, which is the basis of the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u539	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u540	We have had the discussion several times. I maintain that deductibility is not the right tool and that direct aids are preferable. The recovery plan responds to this, perhaps partially in your opinion, but offensively in my view: 385 million euros for productive equipment, 250 million euros for agro-equipment, several hundred million euros for the circular economy. I have already stressed this by referring to the bike plan: there is a difference between tax incentives and direct aid – you will recognise it. What works in times of crisis, in the short term, is direct aid. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u541	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u542	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u543	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u544	I support this amendment. In fact, under the previous legislature, we had defended the economy of functionality. Use must be defended rather than unbridled consumption. Today, people no longer buy a photocopier but pay for a shared use. You tell us to prepare tomorrow's France. The economy of functionality is a strong issue because it promotes employment: a photocopier is now being manufactured to be repairable, which promotes the local economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u545	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u546	I believe that we do not understand each other, Mr General. The tax credit I proposed a few days ago was for simple consumers and was about everyday objects. Here, it is a question of offering an over-amortization to professionals to encourage them to change their model and acquire machines that they will no longer sell but will rent from different operators – photocopiers, for example. The over-amortization has proved its worth in the acquisition of computer equipment; you do not criticize it in this context: tomorrow it will concern the economy of functionality. I think we will have to discuss it at a longer time – my amendment is indeed the last one discussed this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u547	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-15-O1020.u548	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the first part of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
