ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u1	The next item is the debate on the consequences of the reform of unemployment insurance. I remind you of the sanitary rules that you all know: the Chamber is cleaned before and after each session, the microphones are in session; Speakers are encouraged not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones. I also invite you to respect the distances between participants by staggering your entrances and exits. Finally, speakers have spoken from the Chamber and not from the rostrum. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: the speakers of the groups and the Government as a first step, a sequence of questions and answers in a second step. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u2	"Social protection is therefore an indispensable mechanism for supporting individuals during the crisis by providing them with access to health care and protecting them from the massive loss of income resulting from the deepest economic slowdown since the Second World War," wrote the International Labour Organization a few days ago. "By accelerating recovery through its positive contribution to consumption and global demand, social protection can also act as a social and economic stabilizer," she added. In particular, it called on developing countries to "fill the gaps in social protection to prevent future crises". However, we do the opposite by degrading our social security system rather than by "upgrading" it – I deliberately use the words of start-ups to make me understand better. The upcoming crisis is likely to destroy many jobs, while there is no shortage of work to meet the new challenges. We need to invent to cushion the crisis and accelerate the ecological transition. In an emergency, while the Government has not guaranteed the level of income of employees, it has extended the partial and technical unemployment compensation scheme. It was necessary to do so, but you are already beginning to do so, rather than socially securing the career paths over time, thanks to new guarantee mechanisms, which will be at the heart of a bill that we will place on the agenda of our own-initiative parliamentary day on 18 June. For the time being, unemployment insurance must be built upon by at least trying to repair the consequences of the harm it suffered prior to the onset of the virus. The Government has so far refused to reconsider this reform, which it has imposed on the social actors who manage UNEDIC, the unemployment insurance management agency, merely postponing the entry into force of the new rules on compensation for jobseekers from 1 April to 1 September and suspending the measure concerning the degression of unemployment benefits for managers. This is a beginning of the admission of the harmfulness of these provisions, which is exacerbated by the crisis. Despite this, the Government takes a simple postponement decision, while the first part of the unemployment insurance reform, which came into force on 1 November 2019, is still in force. It provides for stricter conditions for access to unemployment benefit for employees who have now had to work six months during a reference period of 24 months in order to qualify for entitlement, whereas a minimum period of four months was previously required in the last 28 months. Similarly, the conditions for recharging duties are much more stringent, since they impose a period of six months worked compared to one hundred and fifty hours previously. These rules exclude hundreds of thousands of workers from the unemployment benefit scheme today: temporary workers, seasonal workers, workers engaged in short contracts in the catering, hotel and cultural sectors. The UNEDIC impact assessment of September 2019 estimated that 710,000 people would be affected during the first year of implementation. As a result of the health and economic crisis, there is a real social tragedy. On the contrary, the right to unemployment compensation must be sufficiently powerful in times of economic recession to play its role as a shock absorber and protection for the most vulnerable. The GDR Group therefore calls on you to withdraw completely the reform of unemployment insurance and to open negotiations without further delay with trade unions and employers' organisations to draw up a new UNEDIC convention which will strengthen workers' unemployment rights. At the time of the announcement of this reform, the Prime Minister said: "The current rules date from 2009, that is, from a time when the shock of the economic and financial crisis had to be cushioned. Today, the economic situation is better. It is therefore normal for the rules of access to change as well. Do you have any other choice than to go back to this reform, which has already caused enough damage? Is it not unreal to continue to count on 4.5 billion euros of savings by 2022? You thought these measures would mechanically reduce the number of unemployed from 150,000 to 250,000 over three years. You said that more work would have to be done to open up unemployment insurance rights. You were making a mistake thinking that hardening the rules would reduce unemployment, as if it weren't going through a lot. And your arguments fall with the crisis. To be in agreement with yourself, you need to adapt your choices to the new situation. We invite you, for our part, to realize your intention, softly displayed at the time, and contradicted in fact, to fight against short contracts, in order to curb the spiral of the crisis rather than to encourage it. We should therefore refrain from favouring the precarization that you included in the law on various emergency – and non-emergency – measures adopted last week. Recovery should not take place at the cost of social downgrading, labour degradation, wage pressure, unemployment and precariousness. Recovery can only be social. A few days ago, I presented with my colleague Michèle de Vaucouleurs the results of a mission concerning solidarity during this period. It is clear that the crisis has exacerbated the precarious situation, leading a large number of people into poverty. Children, women, men are hungry. They've lost the reins of their lives. Do we want to make the situation worse? The Assemblée des départements de France is alarmed that this reform will return to the income of active solidarity – RSA – many women and men who have so far enjoyed their rights to unemployment insurance. The number of job placements increased by just over 42000, or 15%, in the first three weeks of confinement, partly as a result of your reform. We will need a public employment service fully capable of accompanying applicants in the period that begins. Let us welcome, in this regard, the mobilization of the agents who ensured the link so valuable during the confinement. They are engaged in these poorly-recognized and yet vital jobs in our social life. Let's strengthen the jobs department's missions and learn from the experience of recent weeks. We are defending a society of rights, a society of solidarity, a society of respect for human beings. Unemployment insurance, together with mutual occupational funds, is an old idea, but its implementation has recently been unified. Since 1958, it has protected employees who lose their jobs by paying them an allowance indexed to their former wages and accompanying them towards their return to employment. It is part of a continuous wage logic, thus recognizing the labour force, the qualification of those who are temporarily deprived of employment. It is a risk that everyone runs in his or her working life, and one thus ensures one another against this risk. It is part of the social contributions that some call "burdens" to discredit them. You have to go back to your reform and start a new discussion with the trade union organisations. Unemployment insurance is an essential component of social protection, which needs to be further strengthened in view of the crisis. Finally, measures should be taken to support intermittent performances. The white year for intermittents must correspond to a renewal of 12 months as long as the calculation of hours remains affected by the crisis. Beyond that, action must be taken in favour of all artists-authors and workers in the cultural world, for whom appropriate measures must be taken. In its recommendation No. 205 of 2017, the International Labour Organisation called on its members, in their response to crisis situations, to strive to ensure basic income security, in particular for persons deprived of their employment or livelihood by the crisis, to develop, restore or improve comprehensive social security schemes and other social protection mechanisms, taking into account national legislation and international agreements. To prevent crises, enable recovery and strengthen resilience, it called on them to establish, restore or maintain social protection floors and to seek to fill gaps in their coverage. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Our country is concerned. Let's do it. Let us seize this moment to invent the social protection of our time in the face of the savagery of the market, of finance and of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u3	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u4	For the past three years, we have been carrying an employment policy, a social policy that holds emancipation through education and work at its heart. We have made every effort to strengthen equal opportunities through education, for example by doubling CP classes for those who had the most difficulty in learning, but also by investing $15 billion over five years so that every vulnerable young person leaving the education system without a diploma and every long-term job seeker can train, qualify and build a life project through his or her work. By better accompanying each worker and giving him the resources to train throughout his life, we have begun to democratise vocational training and facilitate access to it. The reform of unemployment insurance is another essential link in this employment policy. It was clear that, at the time of the reform, fixed-term contracts – CSD – or acting contracts accounted for 87% of hirings, contracts under one month accounted for 70% of hirings, and one out of three CSDs was a one-day contract or less. In order to combat the precariousness of work while preserving the flexibility necessary for certain occupations, this reform tended to combat this abuse of short contracts, to make work more lucrative than inactivity, to strengthen and adapt the support of job seekers, in particular the most precarious. It has also opened up new rights, in particular for employees who have resigned or self-employed. Before the covid-19 crisis, the results of this policy were very encouraging: a significant two-point drop in the unemployment rate, from 9.6% of the labour force in three years to 7.8%. Behind these figures are hundreds of thousands of people who have returned to work and, consequently, trust and faith in the future. That is why I observe with great seriousness the period that begins. These measures have been taken to free up energy, in the context of economic growth, labour shortages and falling unemployment. Unfortunately, in six weeks, all economic prospects have been abruptly reversed. The health crisis and the shutdown of our economy for several weeks, which is essential to limit the spread of the virus, have had an immediate and terrible effect on our economy and the prospects of returning to employment for the unemployed. We must now protect the French. True to its essential conception of work, the Government has not hesitated to invest colossal resources in maintaining the French productive fabric, safeguarding skills and jobs. I am grateful to him for choosing to activate all the social shock absorbers, which will allow us to leave faster and stronger. For example, 12.2 million employees and 1 million enterprises were protected by the State's assumption of wages, while the activity was discontinued, or 60 per cent of private sector employment. Several emergency measures have been adopted to protect the unemployed. Some measures of the unemployment insurance reform have been suspended in order to meet the immediate needs of the crisis. Thus, periods of inactivity during the crisis will not be taken into account in determining the reference daily wage. They will therefore have no effect on the amount of the allowances. For all unemployed at the end of the law, unemployment benefits have been extended. These entitlements were also extended to persons who had resigned before the commencement of confinement to return to employment. With regard to intermittents arriving at the end of rights, the Government extended the deadline to 31 August 2021. It also neutralized this containment period in the calculation of duties. These measures were necessary. The opening period remains uncertain. By introducing a safety net for the self-employed when nothing existed before, the reform of unemployment insurance has created a new protection that will certainly prove valuable. It is in this spirit of protection and innovation that we must address the following, in order to continue, in this new and more difficult context, to build with voluntarism real career security paths. Work started a few months ago with the social partners on the prevention of hard work and the possibilities of vocational conversion to strategic and promising sectors must participate in this movement to rebuild our economy for the future, and ensure that no one is left at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u5	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u6	[[Smile]] Mr. President, when you're small, you don't have a choice, you have to touch the microphone! [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville acquiesce]] This debate on the consequences of the reform of unemployment insurance, called for by the GDR Group, has its full place during this period of post-conflict control; I'd even say it's really important. The present epidemic crisis had its temporary solution, which was containment; It has, and will have, serious economic consequences, in particular for employment in the private sector, regardless of the sector of activity. Despite the accompaniment, companies will not be able to ameliorate the shock. As of April 21, 2020, 4.3 billion hours of unemployment were required by all businesses. More than 12 million of our citizens have been forced to use partial unemployment and more than 1 million companies are involved. Compared to the 29 million French workers, these figures clearly show the extent and severity of the economic problem caused by the cessation of activity. The Republicans Group supported the Government during this crisis, when it facilitated the use of partial unemployment. It was essential to save our businesses, our employees' jobs, their know-how and their skills. We are also satisfied with the extension of partial unemployment over time. We must continue to support companies and their employees in the aftermath of this crisis. It should be noted that almost 40% – 37.5% I think – of unemployed hours were requested by companies with less than 20 employees: this is quite significant. What is being prepared is not only the fight against the virus, it is the fight for France's competitiveness, for our jobs, for our work areas and our living areas, for those millions of French people who are worried about their lives but also about their employment. This situation, unprecedented in its scale, is combined with the introduction of the reform of unemployment insurance. Of course, the Government had done so before, but its consequences at that time would be dramatic. Members of the Republican Group have fought against this dangerous reform. Small reminder for memory: its adoption, with the vote of an amendment almost out of time, at last reading in the Senate, at the request of the President of the Republic, is not a common procedure. There has been no substantive debate on the subject and the apparent trust in the social partners is a mismatch of real distrust towards them. The road map presented to them was untenable and everything was done to ensure that the negotiations failed, with the sole aim of taking control of the state over one of the temples of paritarianism, UNEDIC. According to UNEDIC's forecast, the deficit in 2019 was 1.9 billion; By 2020, it should have been 0.9 billion, and UNEDIC was slashing with this reform to a surplus of 2.3 billion by 2021. It was without the covid-19. Let us not forget one thing: during the first three years of the quinquennium, Emmanuel Macron's government challenged all the intermediary bodies, Parliament, local authorities, social partners, political parties, in order to give itself all the levers for action in the country. And for what result? We're entering the crisis. It is certainly not the responsibility of the Government, which could not foresee covid-19, but its responsibility was to prepare our country for the outbreak of such an epidemic. Germany has not stopped its entire productive apparatus, nor have many other countries. What will be the consequences? It is feared that the number of employees who will lose their jobs will explode. This was already the case in March, with 246,100 more job seekers in category A, i.e. unemployed. This is the largest increase ever recorded; It's a tsunami that's going to overwhelm us. All these people will have to register for the Employment Centre: they will do so if their rights are not removed by the unemployment insurance reform referred to. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This reform, taken at a time of continuous decline in unemployment and in a situation of almost full employment for managers, cannot be implemented as planned. This is the main criticism we made to you at the time, because we were talking about a possible reversal of the economic situation. Even if some could support such a reform in a positive context of falling unemployment, ignoring the still very high number of unemployed people, it would now have devastating consequences in a period of crisis. That is what we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u7	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u8	I would like to thank the GDR Group for having included the issue of unemployment reform in our discussions. This is an opportunity to recall the important work done by the legislator, the Government and the social partners on the issue of employment since the beginning of the legislature. It is also an opportunity to put into perspective the results achieved so far in the field of employment and to try to test the correctness of the model against the test of the economic and social crisis before us. Reform of the social dialogue, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future and the reform of unemployment form the three projects which have been carried out with the aim of fluidising the labour market, strengthening the skills of workers and combating unemployment. Many measures have also been taken in the context of social security financing laws to limit and prevent occupational disintegration, e.g. by improving the use of therapeutic part-time work, experimenting with a multi-disciplinary departmental platform coordinated by sickness insurance in order to accompany employees on leave of employment and to avoid any lasting distance from employment, or simplifying the conditions for access to light work, which consists of setting up the workplace for the return to employment of an employee who is the victim of an accident at work or occupational disease. This highly proactive policy has borne fruit: in 2019, the number of business start-ups increased by 17% and the number of apprentices increased by more than 16%. The unemployment rate fell to 8.1 per cent at the beginning of 2020, its lowest level since 2008. Also, we can be proud on these benches to have contributed to these results. Unfortunately, in the face of the expected economic and social consequences of the health crisis that we are going through and which has led to the closure of our economy for two months, we will probably have to put our work back on the table. In the crisis we face, the Government has taken a wide range of measures to preserve businesses and safeguard skills. The partial activity scheme introduced in France, which is extended to new professions such as child care workers, home-based workers and temporary workers, is the most protective in Europe, for both employees and businesses. As of 12 May 2020, 12.4 million employees and more than 1 million enterprises were able to benefit from partial unemployment. The rights of job seekers who have completed their employment after 1 March 2020 and during the confinement period are also extended until the end of the health crisis. Finally, the Act laying down various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, which is currently being examined in Parliament, provides for measures that allow the renewal of the CSDs and temporary contracts which have expired until the end of 2020, without derogation from the maximum duration of the contracts provided for by law, in order to accompany the resumption. Here I welcome the decisions that have been taken and that will contribute to significantly cushioning the consequences of the crisis. However, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot pretend to ignore that, despite all this, many of our fellow citizens will, at least temporarily, be hit hard by unemployment. We will therefore have to enter into further negotiations on the rules on unemployment compensation. If certain provisions do not seem to be required to be amended, such as the degressive nature of unemployment benefits for high incomes and the opening of rights for employees who have resigned from a retraining project or for self-employed workers whose activity has not been able to continue, the question of compensation rules must be assessed in order to become more protective in the coming months. In the context of improved economic conditions and increased opportunities for employment, it is more than legitimate to discourage the continuation of unemployment. In a context of less employment, however, it becomes difficult to find permanent employment or long employment contracts; cumulation with unemployment benefits seems preferable to a changeover in the RSA. These new rules also penalize young people who, by carrying out specific tasks, fail to rapidly build up their unemployment rights and therefore endure periods without pay, compensation or social minimums. It should also be noted that according to UNEDIC, the decrease in average compensation for those who receive unemployment between two periods of work would be around 22%, from €905 to €708. Intermittance is obviously not an ideal. The statistics provided at the time of the reform mentioned 865,000 persons with a combined unemployment and short-term contracts. The data also reported 70% of hirings for periods of less than one month. In order to improve this unfavourable situation for employees, the taxation of short contracts, by varying the amount of employer's unemployment contributions, must enter into force in January 2021. Among the sectors subject to this tax, the hotel-restaurant sector, which is so hard tested, should be concerned. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM and related groups wish to reaffirm their full confidence in the Government's action, but also wish to see negotiations open without delay with the social partners to adapt the reform of unemployment, which has partly entered into force, in order to make the system more protective during the most difficult months of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u9	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u10	A year ago, I was speaking to the Prime Minister about this reform of unemployment insurance. I then denounced, like all the left-wing deputies, the so-called reformist ambition of the Government, based on this ultraliberal vision of the economy. A reform of unemployment insurance without any new rights; a reform based on the idea that jobseekers were responsible for their fate, being too comfortably compensated by unemployment insurance. If it is the current majority that voted for this dogmatic and ideological text, its paternity must be sought at the highest summit of the state. It was indeed the President of the Republic who inspired it. No one will have forgotten his remarks addressed to a young unemployed person: it was enough to cross the road to find a job... A terrible sentence, incomprehensible, since one out of every two unemployed people was then not compensated, and half of those who received it were on average 860 euros per month, less than the poverty line. By stating these few figures, it is understandable that unemployment cannot be a choice of life. Who can imagine for a moment that keeping in precariousness would be a choice of life? It is enough, moreover, to talk to those who accompany the most precarious of us to stay and feed themselves, to realize that this is a view of the spirit, totally unjust. However, in spite of this, you made the choice at the time to further tighten the conditions for access to unemployment insurance: to be compensated, it became necessary to work six months in the previous two years instead of four months in the previous twenty-eight months, or to work one day out of four instead of one day out of seven. A choice assumed, applied by decree, without listening either to charitable associations, to the opposition, to Parliament or to the social partners. To the unions, who feared drastic cuts for the most precarious, you replied that the combination of the new rules and, above all, a dynamic labour market would strengthen the recovery of a job. A dynamic labour market, you said: with the crisis of the coronavirus and the slowdown due to confinement, the risk of increasing insecurity and unemployment is major. A social crisis should not be added to the health crisis. At the beginning of the health crisis, you certainly suspended until September the second part of the reform, which hardens the calculation of the allowance for precarious workers and which was to enter into force on 1 April. On the other hand, the rule already in force on 1 November, which tightens the conditions for access and recharging fees, is still valid. You, the Minister for Labour, have announced your intention to start a reflection with the social partners to adapt quickly the rules applicable to unemployment insurance. It's a first step, but it's not enough. We must live up to the economic and social crisis ahead and take radical action. It is no longer time to pursue an exclusively accounting policy. It is necessary to avoid social breakdown, "whatever it costs", according to the formula of the Head of State. We must protect the most vulnerable workers, those who were already in precarious employment before the crisis, as well as workers in the sectors most severely affected by the health crisis – in hotels, restaurants, culture, tourism and events. In short, this reform must be abandoned, so that unemployment benefits are not drastically reduced or even abolished. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We must reinvent ourselves, we must change: these words have been spoken by the Head of State. So don't wait, give substance to these words and remove this ineffective and unjust reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u11	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u12	Unsurprisingly, this crisis has led to a historic and sharp rise in the number of unemployed, whose economic consequences will be felt for several months. Unfortunately, this trend will not be reversed. Yes, no doubt there was a need for a reform of unemployment insurance: we had to change the system in order to reduce the debt of the unemployment insurance scheme, to raise the value of work so that it would pay more than inactivity, to strengthen the accompanying measures for job seekers to apply differentiated and adapted solutions to the areas of life and employment, to combat the abuse of short contracts to encourage companies to promote long-term jobs. However, the unprecedented health environment and the historical recession threaten to weaken this balance by considerably tightening the conditions for access to the labour market in the coming months. I'm worried about the many collateral victims to come. I am thinking first of all of the seniors, whom the reform had ignored since the issue of long-term unemployment among seniors had not been addressed. This crisis will aggravate their employability, already very fragile before. This population is often forgotten and I believe it is necessary to study measures to avoid widening age inequalities, e.g. by increasing the duration of compensation for jobseekers over 55 years of age, which is currently limited to 36 months. More generally, the decline in the productive capacity of firms that have had to reduce or interrupt their production as a result of confinement carries risks not only of bankruptcy but also of dismissal, which will de facto lead to an increase in unemployment. Hundreds of thousands of workers from all sectors of industry whose contracts were to be started or renewed are deprived of employment. Unfortunately, when a crisis of this kind strikes an entire economy, the destruction of employment is massively concentrated on the least protected workers. The threat of precarization of an already weakened population must be of concern to us. I come to the situation of young people. In normal times, we measure the difficulties young graduates have in accessing the labour market. Today, students who complete their courses in an already new context will probably enter into even more chaotic working life and find even more precarious jobs, which may have lasting effects on their careers, including in terms of remuneration. The cancellation of the end-of-studies courses deprives the persons concerned of any possibility of turning these courses into permanent jobs by hiring them at the end of the months of discovery in the welcoming company. The 700000 young people who leave the education system every year and are not in education, employment or training will necessarily be affected. We must do everything we can to avoid creating a covid promotion. Only a proactive policy will allow this: companies must be given massive support so that they can maintain their commitment to young people. You have stated your willingness not to forget them, Madam Minister. This commitment will have to be translated into clear measures in the recovery plan. No generation should be sacrificed. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to one of the measures that you have taken to protect job seekers during the crisis of the Covid-19, namely the maintenance of the payment of allowances to all job seekers arriving at the end of their entitlements. I naturally welcome the extension of these rights, but those who will still have rights beyond the crisis period are not concerned. They therefore continue to consume their rights when they have been unable, since confinement, to find a job. Would it also be possible to grant them a bonus of rights corresponding to the period when they were deprived of access to the labour market?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u13	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u14	Six months ago, the Government endorsed its reform of unemployment insurance by the entry into force of its first part, thus taking final note of the failure of the negotiations between the social partners. At the time, the Libertés et Territoires group had regretted the lack of room for manoeuvre which the Government had left to the social partners and its resumption of this subject, especially since the reform presented in the end caused us to doubt, to say the least, its ability to protect the most vulnerable job seekers. We were afraid that this reform would respond more to an accounting logic at the expense of the imperatives of solidarity and social justice. It penalizes workers engaged in discontinuous activities, in particular seasonal and temporary workers who alternate short contracts and periods of inactivity. Six months ago, however, the economy was doing pretty well and unemployment statistics were falling steadily. After 12 years of deficit, the UNEDIC also provided for a return to balance or even a surplus. Despite this good economic situation, there were still many fears. At the time, a UNEDIC note had confirmed our doubts and informed us about the anticipated effect of the reform: while savings of the order of €3.4 billion were announced for the period 2020-2021, UNEDIC already predicted that the decisions of the Government would have a negative impact on more than 40 per cent of jobseekers benefiting from the unemployment insurance scheme, in particular seasonal workers working in the catering, accommodation and leisure sectors in tourist areas, which account for almost half of the seasonal workers. November 2019 seems far away today, as the brutality of the crisis caused by the covid-19 epidemic upset the country. All the economic indicators of the time are out of date. We still do not know exactly what the impact of the crisis will be on employment, but the statistics published last Thursday by INSEE indicate that the number of unemployed continued to fall to a rate of 7.8%, a decrease of 0.3% compared to the last quarter of 2019. However, INSEE believes that this drop in trompe-l'oeil mainly reveals the unavailability of people to seek employment, many of whom have stopped taking any steps during periods of confinement. Moreover, the employment figures for March already concluded that there was an increase of 250,000 unemployed. The return to the balance of UNEDIC is expected to be compromised, with the cost of the partial unemployment scheme already amounting to EUR 24 billion. Thus, the economic crisis only reinforces our fears about the consequences of the reform of unemployment insurance. You have taken some measures, Madam Minister, to relax during the crisis by extending the payment of the allowance for people arriving at the end of their entitlements. You have also postponed to September 1 the coming into force of the decree planned for April last, which aimed to tighten the method of calculation used to determine whether or not a person can benefit from unemployment insurance. As you prepare to engage in reflection with the social partners, associations and trade unions such as the CFDT and UNSA are calling for the outright withdrawal of the reform. We will have to go further than just adaptation measures. The crisis calls for a real challenge to the reform: we must imagine a new system that allows us to return to employment and, above all, to guarantee more solidarity in the face of unemployment and insecurity. It is imperative to look at short and precarious contracts, which are the most severely penalized. There is particular concern for seasonal workers in the tourism, hotel and catering sectors, who are suffering heavy and lasting consequences. Many will be the workers who have not worked enough in 2020 and who will soon have exhausted their unemployment rights, not to mention those who have not been able to return to work because of the decline in tourism activity due to the covid crisis. The bonus-malus system, which does not take into account the specificities of tourism-dependent sectors and territories, risks penalising hiring. As for the new rules on compensation, including cumulation of employment and unemployment, they must be rethought. From September onwards, benefits will be based on the average income of the months in which an employee has worked, which will reduce their amount by about 30 per cent per month. It will also take six months, instead of only one at present, for the unemployment period to be extended by the same amount, which again penalizes short contracts. You can't just adjust, minister. Is the Government prepared to seriously challenge the reform of unemployment insurance in order to provide adequate responses to the situation of the most vulnerable workers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u15	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u16	Stop the unemployment hunt, Minister! On March 18, you were taking emergency measures to "combat insecurity and protect the most vulnerable," you said. For this, you have been forced to freeze certain provisions of your unemployment insurance reform. Thus, the degressivity of the allowances after six months of compensation is suspended. Moreover, periods not covered by an employment contract will not be taken into account in the calculation of compensation during the period of the health crisis – but only on an exceptional basis, you haveten to remember. There you go! The reform that you were right about a few months ago must be frozen during the crisis: we did not imagine the same admission! Why suspend its effects if it was so beneficial to the public interest? Why postpone a reform aimed at combating unemployment as we enter a massive social crisis with an explosion of unemployment? Unless it must be admitted that this reform was not intended to combat unemployment but rather to combat the unemployed... The epidemic limits the resumption of employment, you will answer me. The epidemic has a good back! Epidemic or not, France was already suffering from an evil whose name you held: the shortage. Before the crisis, 300,000 job vacancies were not filled – although this figure can be discussed, but let's move on – for 6 million unemployed. You were still blind! It was your favorite lie to sell your filthy reform: just cross the street to find a job. Of course! It is easier to blame the unemployed by making them responsible for their situation than to admit the failure of your policy. But the situation will worsen. The Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – OFCE – provides for an additional 500,000 people to be unemployed. Unemployment at the end of an acting mission increased by 151% at the beginning of the confinement. With you in control, the economic crisis will undoubtedly cause bankruptcy and social plans to unfold. Yet you are obstinate. You prefer to postpone your reform rather than abandon it. The carnage will resume in September. The crisis is only a parenthesis for you. So you keep your tax on the unemployed! Indeed, that is what this is about: your only ambition is to achieve 4.5 billion savings on the backs of those who are unemployed. For this purpose, your average age method is bleeding: periods of inactivity will be taken into account in the calculation of the compensation and, as a result, you reduce the compensation by 650,000 unemployed. You also tighten the conditions for the opening of rights. For you, these are 1.3 million squares removed from your Excel spreadsheet. For them, these are broken lives and a social death. People who alternate short contracts and periods of unemployment will be hit hard. The loop is closed: you have with one hand destroyed the labour code and facilitated the massive use of precarious jobs by companies, and on the other you sanction those who occupy them with this reform. And finally, rather than reducing the working time for everyone to work, you increase it to sixty hours a week and you tackle the right to weekly rest. What a genius, Minister! Your little destruction company doesn't know the crisis! The press tells us that the sanctions after two refusals of employment resumed on 11 May and that the cancellations for failure to call again tomorrow. Meanwhile, 14,000 people die each year as a result of long-term unemployment. Maintaining your reform in these circumstances should make you ashamed. All your reforms aimed at "freeing up energy", making jobs more flexible, reducing the cost of work, and I don't know what else has already proved their failure. That's the opposite! Because unemployment is a political choice. On the contrary, it is necessary to share working time and initiate ecological and solidarity-based bifurcation, in order to create hundreds of thousands of socially and ecologically useful jobs. Ensuring decent employment for all is a necessity, while the number of unemployed is already exploding in this health crisis. In this task, the responsibility of the State, yours, is immense. In order to eradicate mass unemployment, we must make the State the ultimate employer of people deprived of employment. This is the condition for the implementation of the right to employment, enshrined in the Declaration on the Rights of Man and the Citizen. We're from this camp! You're advocating solutions from the past. Already nearly thirty years ago, André Gorz wrote: "A new perspective opens up to us: the construction of a liberated civilization of time. But instead of seeing it as an exciting task, our societies turn their backs on this perspective and present the liberation of time as a calamity. Instead of wondering how to ensure that in the future everyone can work much less, much better, while receiving their share of the socially produced wealth, the leaders, in their vast majority, are wondering how to make the system consume more work – how to ensure that the huge amounts of work saved in production can be wasted in small jobs whose main function is to occupy people". [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Time's running out. You've made us lose so much! Abandon this reform of death insurance, stop your hunt for the unemployed! You and your old recipes, Madam Minister, have done your time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u17	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u18	I am thinking of Mr Dharréville, Mrs Fabre and Mrs Dalloz, as many of you have said, social protection is a common good to which we are very attached in France and of which unemployment insurance is a part. You have been many to welcome the Government's action in terms of partial employment, known as partial unemployment. Over the past two months, this has brought a safety net to almost 12.5 million of our citizens. It has avoided hundreds of thousands of dismissals, which have taken place in countries that have not resorted to this social shock, especially in the United States, where more than 30 million people have lost their jobs. The skills of one million companies have thus been protected, and more than 12 million of our citizens, representing six out of ten jobs in the private sector, of which more than half are in small businesses, which is important for businesses, employees and territories. The unemployment insurance system is part of the general social protection system. What is the impact of the current crisis on the reform we have made of it? The reform of unemployment insurance was made possible by the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future, which was implemented by a decree of 26 July 2019. This normative evolution was one of the pillars of the transformation of our social model, desired by the President of the Republic. The objectives of this law have always been clear: to encourage the resumption of employment and to combat the development of precariousness due to the excessive use of short contracts. No one could have predicted the exceptional situation we are in. Ms. de Vaucouleurs and others recalled how the context had changed. Three months and fifteen days ago, I announced here that unemployment had fallen to a rate that we had not experienced in eleven years before the 2008-2009 crisis, which was 8.1% in the country and 7.9% in metropolitan France. In addition, the apprenticeship had exploded, as the number of apprentices had taken off by 16%. It was three months ago: for you I don't know, but it seems to me very far away. We have lived with extraordinary intensity for the past three months and are plunged into a new situation. As you said on every bench, the covid-19 crisis has profoundly affected the labour market situation, which we must take into account. It would have done so even more without the massive use of partial unemployment. In March, data from Pôle Emploi reported an additional 24,6000 category A unemployed, which is the opposite of the trend we had seen in the last three years. The figures of the International Labour Office and the INSEE show a fall in unemployment for the first quarter of 2020, but I agree that this is a fall in trompe-l'oeil, because confinement has prevented some unemployed people from seeking employment, leaving them out of the statistics. Do not take into account this figure, which is not sufficiently meaningful. The economic and social consequences of this unprecedented health crisis are and will be unprecedented. In the face of this exceptional situation, the Government acted speedily and pragmatically, protecting employees immediately through the partial unemployment scheme, which has become the most protective in Europe. It has expanded it to include about 10 categories that were not entitled to it, a topic that we raised in questions to the Government. Many of you, including Mrs Dumont and Mr Naegelen, insisted on the need not to leave anyone at the side of the road. In the decree of 14 April 2020, we took emergency measures to adapt immediately the rules of unemployment insurance, in order to combat precariousness and protect the most vulnerable. Mrs Fabre has quoted many of these provisions, which I would like to detail. The first measure is the extension of the rights of all persons who have reached the end of their rights during confinement. The Government has decided to automatically extend, without any steps, the unemployment benefit entitlements of all job seekers who have reached the end of their entitlements not on 17th, but on 1st March, until 31st May 2020, after the end of the confinement – we have taken the side of considering the whole months. This exceptional measure guarantees the applicants concerned the payment of their allowance until the end of the calendar month in which the breakdown occurred. If, what no one wants, a reconfinition were to be decided, this measure would be reactivated. Mr Dharréville, in view of the exceptional administrative bans on the live entertainment sector, for reasons that everyone understands in the fight against the spread of the virus, we have recently made a provision, announced by the President of the Republic, for an exceptional extension of the rights of the intermittents of the show until 31 August 2021. The second measure concerns the reference period for membership. This period, during which the minimum period of affiliation required for the opening of a right is sought, is extended by the period of confinement, always extended to whole months. From 24 months, the reference period for membership has thus been extended to 27 months. It will then take six months to open a new right during the twenty-seven months. The third measure relates to the adjustment of the conditions of the legitimate resignation: very quickly, some employees were concerned, legitimately, because they had resigned from their employment in the days or weeks prior to confinement, with a view to occupational mobility: they had a promise of employment, but they had not yet taken up their posts. They therefore found themselves in a terrible situation, without employment or the right to unemployment insurance. We have opened a new case of legitimate resignation, so that these people can benefit from unemployment insurance. The fourth measure suspended the deadline for the degressivity of unemployment benefit. For those affected by the degressivity of the aid to return to employment, the six-month period, after which the allowance is reduced by 30 % for the highest incomes, is suspended during the period of the health crisis. The fifth measure postponed the entry into force of the new method of calculating the reference daily wage until 1 September. Inactivity periods not covered by a contract of employment during confinement will not be taken into account for the determination of the reference daily wage. You also asked me about the measures taken for seasonal workers. As a first step, we artificially extended the rights associated with the winter season, even if the contract had not been completed, so that the persons concerned could access unemployment insurance. It now appears that some seasonal workers in the tourism and event sectors have not worked enough to benefit from unemployment insurance. They will continue to face administrative constraints in the coming months, which will make it difficult to return to employment. This subject will be on the agenda of our discussions with the social partners in the coming days, in order to study the specific measures to be taken for seasonal workers. These are emergency measures, but the crisis will last. The key issue in this period is to protect. Our aim is to ensure that as many workers as possible who do not find employment are entitled to unemployment insurance. Beyond these measures, our compass must remain pragmatism. Adjustments to the unemployment insurance rules should be considered in the light of the employment situation, while ensuring that the conditions for a resumption of activity are preserved. Indeed, this is not the least paradox of the period, the tensions on the labour market have not disappeared: even in this period of crisis, some sectors are experiencing difficulties in hiring. In the coming months, many sectors will need to recruit to restart the activity. Today, on the Pôle Emploi website, there are 452660 job offers available: this number is a sign of hope, because it shows that the labour market is not completely shut down, but it is obviously less than it was before the crisis. Recruitment has declined, but has not disappeared, and some sectors are looking to recruit. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We need to ensure the full protection of jobseekers, in a context where protection is more important than ever, but also the recruitment needs of companies, many of which are in a very difficult situation, which could continue at the time of the resumption of activity. That is why I proposed to the social partners to discuss very quickly, in the next few days, the adjustment of the rules of unemployment insurance during the crisis and, more broadly, the whole package of measures for reviving employment and learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u19	We come to the questions. Their duration is limited, like that of the replies, to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u20	The first part of the reform of unemployment insurance came into force on 1 November last. We had echoed the forecast of 450,000 people who would be deprived of rights. This was not to mention the effects of the health crisis, during which the tightening of the conditions of access to rights, combined with the cessation of recruitment, exposes precarious workers to a scissor effect. By the end of the first quarter of this year, wage employment had fallen by 2.3%, a loss of nearly 455,000 jobs. Interim employment is particularly affected, with a 37% decrease compared to 2019, i.e. close to 300,000 jobs. But the first part of your reform particularly penalizes precarious employees. Many employees in the hotel, catering, tourism, animation and arts sectors or some industries are still waiting for contracts: the employment rate has thus been at its lowest level since 2009. In view of these findings, several questions arise. Are you not only going to stay the application of the second part of the unemployment insurance reform, scheduled for 1 September 2020, but also going back to the method of calculating the entitlement to compensation initiated by the first part? It would then be necessary to open negotiations with trade union organisations: you have announced discussions, but they still need to raise the overall problem of unemployment insurance. Will you take into account the claim, made by some, of an exceptional extension of 12 months of open rights, in view of the state of employment due to the dramatic consequences of the health crisis on different sectors of activity? [[Laurence Dumont and Alain Bruneel applaud]] Finally, will you continue to experiment with the "long-term unemployed zero-territories" and confirm the extension of the scheme to new areas, as you announced during the interdepartmental committee on rural areas on 20 February?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u21	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u22	Your questions, which are complete and rich, show how much discussion with the social partners is necessary. There are several registers. With regard to the very principle of reform, it seems to me that we must be careful to take account of the reality and the whole of it. For example, it has allowed resignations leaving a company to create their own or self-employed workers – farmers, artisans, traders – to be eligible for unemployment insurance. Unfortunately, I fear that this will be very useful. It has also made it possible to considerably strengthen the resources of Pôle Emploi, in favour of increased support for jobseekers, with two half days of intensive support from the first two months, which was not yet the case. It has also helped to develop the support of companies, in order to bring them closer to the field offers. I hope that at least we all agree that these are contributions to the reform of unemployment insurance. Not only does the crisis we are experiencing not call them into question, but it reinforces their relevance. I come to the subjects that you have rightly mentioned. The decline in temporary employment and precarious employment today is not for good reasons: they can be explained by the fact that they are the first adjustment variable in the event of a crisis. How to support and protect those in precarious employment is one of the issues discussed not only in the reform of unemployment insurance, but also in the re-launching of employment. As far as rights are concerned, it is one of the subjects we will discuss with the social partners. Is it necessary or not to change the conditions for access to unemployment insurance, i.e. to the opening of rights? I cannot prejudge future discussions or decisions that we will make, but it goes without saying that the subject will be addressed. Finally, you have raised the issue of long-term zero-unemployed territories. I had committed myself to it. We are in favour of extending and extending this experiment under conditions which will have to be discussed in Parliament. I recall that the law of 29 February 2016 does not allow the number of experiments to be extended in the absence of a supplementary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u23	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u24	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of seasonal workers. In the Landes, this is a major problem for tourism and thermalism, which are two key sectors for this territory. The epidemic crisis has plunged them into a situation of uncertainty and insecurity. Seasonal activity usually allows these workers to contribute enough to open up unemployment insurance rights. They thus have an off-season source of income. The partial unemployment measures you have taken relate to the contracts for the winter season, which runs until April 15. What about the summer season? Will an employer whose activity will be reduced be able to benefit from it, so hire serenely at the beginning of the season? In addition, the reference period for the opening of fees was extended by three months due to confinement. It will therefore be necessary to have worked six months in the last twenty-seven months, instead of twenty-four months earlier. This measure deserves to be welcomed. However, it may not be sufficient for seasonal workers who will not be able to find a contract this summer, and will have to wait until next season to work again. In short, their situation is comparable to that of the intermittents of the show, who benefit from an extension of the date of termination of rights. Are you considering a similar measure for seasonal workers? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, beyond the very special situation of this year, is a change in the system of compensation for these activities – by nature intermittent – envisaged? Could we consider setting up a specific contract similar to a seasonal CDI, including a smoothing of contributions, facilitating re-employment from year to year and allowing security over time? To sum up, can you detail the measures that will be taken to compensate seasonal workers in the short and long term?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u25	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u26	Mr Causse, you rightly raise the issue of seasonal workers, who were initially affected by the end of the winter season. I had gone to Isère, before the confinement, to see the situation of the winter season, the difficulties to finish the season being already foreseeable. We had taken a measure allowing their employers to place seasonal winter workers in partial unemployment, entirely paid by the state, of course, even if they did not work until the end of the season. This has made it possible to extend their entitlement to unemployment insurance all the more. You raise the major issue of summer seasonality. I will distinguish the agricultural sector from the hotel, catering and tourism sectors. Agriculture has not stopped. Thanks to the farmers in this country, and to the food chain, the French have been able to continue to feed themselves, in quality and in quantity, without interruption, since the beginning of the crisis. Agriculture is recruiting. She lacks arms and looks for 200,000 seasonal. We are helping farmers to do this, with a view to recruiting them. These are the jobs in tension that I mentioned earlier. This is a massive issue for the tourism, hotel and catering sectors. A few days ago, the Prime Minister chaired an interdepartmental international committee on tourism, taking into account the 93 million tourists we usually welcome each year. The issue was raised. Because of the epidemic risk, there is uncertainty as to when and how tourism, hotel and catering activities can resume, and which ones. If the epidemic remains contained, the Prime Minister plans to allow the opening of bars and restaurants on 2 June, as well as the resumption of certain tourism activities, in departments that have remained in green for a sufficient period of time. However, it is clear that we will not have a normal summer from any point of view. We hope that at least part of the tourism, hotel and catering sectors will be able to function, without knowing the usual size.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is essential to take measures in favour of seasonal workers, whose contracts are often renewed from year to year. It is a way of life, with a very strong intensity in the season, followed by periods of interruption. This year, the season – it's inevitable – will not be at all up to the usual seasons. This is one of the topics under consideration. I am committed to working with the Interministerial Committee on Tourism, with the social partners. I do not have the solution to the problem today, but it is clear that there is a need for specific measures in favour of seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u29	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u30	Madam Minister, one of the objectives of the reform of unemployment insurance is to combat the precariousness and chaining of fixed-term contracts – CSD – and temporary tasks, to the benefit of stable jobs. In response, one of its flagship measures is the bonus-malus system for companies with at least 11 employees in seven sectors of activity, where the average separation rate is more than 150 %. However, some of these sectors have been severely affected by the covid-19 pandemic, including accommodation, catering and tourism in general, as well as transportation and storage. Despite the Government's massive aid plans, which I would like to commend here, it is likely that these companies will take a long time to regain the level of activity they had prior to confinement. Therefore, a greater use of short contracts seems inevitable. This is the meaning of one of the urgent provisions adopted by the National Assembly, authorizing by company agreement to renew CSDs and temporary employment contracts – TTCs – more than twice until the end of 2020. However, in 2021 we will find the common law, and the contributions required under the bonus-malus will apply from 1 March, on the basis of the contract purposes found this year. [[Sophie Mette and Michèle Peyron applaud]] Minister, knowing that, for the labour market, 2020 will be a non-standard year, and given the uncertainty of a stable level of employment in the coming years, what do you intend to do to ensure that the bonus-malus scheme does not further weaken the sectors of activity that are subject to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u31	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u32	Mr Da Silva, you are raising the question of the evolution, in the current context, of the measures we have planned to encourage companies – as far as they can – to make greater use of CDI and less of CDDs and very short acting missions, penalising the return to unemployment and the number of breaches of contracts. First of all, I would like to point out that we had two arrangements: the bonus-malus, which you are referring to, and the 10 euros tax on the CDDU, the entry into force of which has been postponed, like that of all taxes, so that it does not apply. As far as the bonus-malus is concerned, it must be remembered that, as it is designed, it is not intended to calibrate companies in relation to an absolute, but within the framework of their sector of activity. In other words – I forget for a moment the crisis – the level of hotel and catering companies is measured against the average of what is going on in the sector. A given company is compared to its competitors. This is therefore not a general measure, but one that needs to be assessed sector by sector. Knowing that bonuses and malus are balanced, it is not a question of saving money, but of empowering employers and encouraging them to enter into longer contracts. As these two observations are combined, the crisis would not penalize a large number of companies from this perspective. For many companies, it could even represent a reduction in costs. However, it goes without saying that we must discuss it with the social partners. Nevertheless, the technique, in which the measure would not penalise companies in most cases, is opposed to the perception, which one may have, of an additional workload even though we are in a crisis. This is less a problem of penalisation than a problem of approach to the subject. Indeed, this system compares companies within a given sector. If the whole sector is in difficulty, the stretch is the same for all: it is therefore very fair from the point of view of competition. It is also one of the subjects that we will be discussing with the social partners – I would be sorry to answer the same question on all the subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u33	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u34	Madam Minister, my questions are in keeping with the comments made earlier by our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz. Each of the speakers who preceded me reminded me that the health crisis will inevitably have terrible consequences for the economy and employment. Even though no one at this time can accurately predict the extent of this, we can already see that restaurants, cafes and traders in general have pulled the curtain, and that many companies are in difficulty. Everyone knows, and regrets, that people will soon find themselves seeking employment. The unemployment curve will grow, inexorably and dramatically. We will only be able to see the need to develop new solutions. We are here in a moment of breakup involving a change of software. Madam Minister, you had your software, and we had it. Our colleagues across the street had theirs. The evolution of the economic environment means that we are profoundly changing our ways of thinking. Otherwise, we'll all go into the wall. I know that you will be able to count on the public operator, Pôle Emploi, who has demonstrated his agility and responsiveness for the last ten years, constantly adapting his service offer. However, Pôle Emploi agents are not magicians: their capacity must increase; Otherwise, in the event that the portfolio of jobseekers grows, the quality of the support provision would undoubtedly fall. Madam Minister, in this terrible moment of breaking some or even certain values, which I repeat calls for a change of software, I consider it imperative to go back to your reform of unemployment insurance. Moreover, you confess it half-wordly by shifting its application over time. I can only invite you not to take the risk of increasing the burden of departmental councils by putting men and women at the mercy of social minima.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u36	[[Marie-Christine Dalloz applauds]] I know you took a turn. I can only encourage you – this is our view – to focus on activity, work and integration again and again. Be innovative! Don't hesitate for a moment to be bold about it! Always prefer progressivity to threshold effects. My question is simple: what is your model of unemployment insurance – macroeconomically – given the breakdown that we are experiencing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u37	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u38	Mr Viry, the question you are asking is good, but it is broader than that of unemployment insurance or unemployment insurance, even if the question of the incomes of our fellow citizens affected by unemployment is important. The one that is laid before us is defensive and offensive. What accompanying policy is needed to help boost employment, when there is a clear risk of falling jobs and rising unemployment? What measures should be taken? First of all, I would like to mention the measures relating to the action of Pôle Emploi, which I thank you for having welcomed. I take this opportunity to repeat that even during confinement, even in telework, the employment officers were present. They called the job seekers, especially the most vulnerable, and allowed the updating of the files to take place impeccably – no one has heard of it because all this went well, everyone had their rights in time and in time, everything was organized very quickly. We had already decided – it goes without saying that this measure is being maintained – to create 1000 additional jobs at the Employment Centre, in order to strengthen the support of job seekers: in a crisis, the subject of the accompaniment takes on particular importance. We also planned that Pôle Emploi would work more closely with departmental councils and social workers, to better support the most vulnerable. Unfortunately, this measure remains valid. More generally, the question of reviving employment is that of accompanying companies, so that they can arbitrate in favour of employment where possible. That is one of the issues that we will have to address. Unemployment insurance is one of the pillars of our social protection, there is no doubt about it: our system was already one of the most protective in Europe, and this is all the more true of the partial unemployment measures we have taken. France is most often more so-called in terms of protection, and we can be proud of it; This must be taken into account. Again, this is a subject that will be addressed in a comprehensive discussion with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u39	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u40	The debate focuses on the consequences of the reform of unemployment insurance: it is neither less nor less than a social justice mechanism. Beyond the compensation of those who have lost their jobs, it is a tool of social stability which it is imperative not only to maintain, but also to adapt, a fortiori in the period of severe turbulence that we are going through. The unemployment insurance agreement allows many men and women to recover from difficult economic conditions and to return to work. The Republican Group considers that, unfortunately, the objective of social cohesion cannot be achieved if you continue, at all costs, to apply the ideas that were those of candidate Macron. To ensure social cohesion and avoid an unprecedented democratic crisis following the health crisis, it is necessary for representatives to inspire confidence and for the global system not to be in the hands of an increasingly centralizing State. The results of your reform are bitter, as Marie-Christine Dalloz said: you had planned the failure of the discussions with the social partners;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u41	Organized failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u42	...you made the decision to take over the UNEDIC, making a clean table of something that worked. In fact, we denounced him. In this way, you have undermined the joint management that was the strength of our social democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore essential to return to this reform, which is to run until the spring of 2021. You have mentioned on several occasions a dialogue with the social partners: could you tell us your method and your pace of achieving this objective? Would you agree to give branches the capacity to develop strategic plans? How do you intend to pursue an employment policy that goes far beyond unemployment insurance policy, in order to enable everyone to return to work?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u43	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u44	Some things change, others less. Of course, we can return tirelessly to our debates two years ago. The State has never intended to take over or not to take over it: we have been forced to act by decree, temporarily, because the negotiations conducted by the social partners have not been successful. This has happened several times in the history of unemployment insurance. This must be seen only as a short-term and pragmatic decision. You're asking me about the method. One of the major challenges we face is that we have entered an era of uncertainty – an uncertainty of a magnitude that none of the current generations of responsibilities have known. This uncertainty is threefold: health – first – economic and social; its phenomena combine, can reinforce each other; the duration, the depth of their consequences are unknown. We are forced to work on different scenarios, without knowing what the health situation will be next December and even less the economic and social situation, especially in the event of a rebound in the epidemic. We rely on our values, on our convictions; we act with agility, flexibility, pragmatism, and in concert. Of course, we have never been able to plan the future: but the degree of uncertainty is now extreme, at the national level, at the European level, at the global level. In concrete terms, I am very attached to something I learned a long time ago from Jean Monnet: shared diagnosis. We have to start from a finding. In the absence of any possible forecast, we must, together with the social partners, use the different assumptions that are on the table to ask ourselves what the employment risks are. I am thinking in particular of risk by sector. Some are well, their situation having not been affected by the crisis: food distribution, for example, is not in difficulty. Other sectors are even going very well: I will not give the names of American companies selling online entertainment, but their turnover has increased by 20%. On the other hand, in tourism, hotels, restaurants, the crisis is deep; and, given the epidemic risk, we're not going back to normal right now. The health precautions to be taken so that our citizens can safely go to bars or restaurants will for a long time hinder the activities of these companies. Aeronautics, automobiles are in trouble. It will therefore be necessary to start with this shared diagnosis. Secondly, and I agree with you on this point, the social partners and we ourselves will have to be inventive, not only on unemployment insurance, but more generally on policies to accompany employment, training and apprenticeship, taking into account the changes that the country is likely to undergo.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u45	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u46	The reform of unemployment insurance should, in several stages, reinvigorate an institutional system with many inconsistencies. In the light of the upcoming economic crisis, the issue of job-seekers' compensation is becoming paramount. I would like to ask you about the situation of a professional category in which measures have already been announced, particularly since 6 May: the intermittents of the show. Since the crisis is of the magnitude that we know for the various cultural sectors, the daily lives of intermittents are particularly affected. The extension of their rights until August 2021 is therefore welcome. But what about the reform of unemployment insurance for this so atypical category? While the first stages of the reform, already in force, did not affect them massively, the short-contract component, which was to enter into force on 1 April 2020 and which was postponed to 1 September, had a particular resonance for them. In particular, it provides for a recalculation of entitlements for those sometimes referred to as "allowants", employees who regularly alternate periods of short contracts and unemployment, often in the same sector of activity. Entitlement to benefits would be increased by reducing the allowance, which could not be less than 65 per cent of the net monthly wage. The same reform also provided for the introduction of a bonus-malus system for employers using short contracts, with an exception for employers of jobseekers covered by Annexes 8 and 10 to the unemployment insurance regulations, i.e. intermittents. All this has been suspended by the force of things. However, there is a need to open up opportunities very quickly to the whole sector. Given the shock of the economic crisis caused by the covid-19 for the cultural sector, what will remain of the measures specifically aimed at the intermittents of the show?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u47	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u48	The unemployment insurance scheme for intermittent entertainment is, as you know, quite specific. It covers 100,000 to 120,000 people each year; the calculation of their rights is very special: it takes 507 hours the previous year to open the right to a year of insurance. These rules are therefore very different from those applied to other jobseekers. As early as April, we took steps to neutralize the containment period in the calculation of 507 hours. Intermittents whose rights expired in April or May, and who would not have their 507 hours due to the closure of the theatres, were thus protected. The President of the Republic then announced a much more important measure: compensation for intermittents will be extended until 31 August 2021. If we chose August, it is because many rights are acquired during the summer, and less during the fall. Today, however, we cannot allow large gatherings in confined places. There is much to bet that, if we had not acted, a large number of intermittents would not have been able this year to make up their right capital for next year – not all, fortunately, because there will still be shows that will eventually take place! It is an exceptional, and even historical, measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u49	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u50	As the health crisis evolves into an economic crisis, our solidarity systems must be adapted, strengthened and expanded to try to absorb the social shock. This is obviously the case in the case of unemployment insurance. For my part, I would like to mention all those young people who will have to enter the labour market in the coming weeks and months, under extremely difficult conditions, with even fewer opportunities than before. Since 1 January 2019, these young people can no longer benefit from the ARPE, the first job search aid you have abolished. But these young people under the age of 25 are the great forgotten of our system: they are not eligible for almost nothing. This was the whole meaning of the preparatory work carried out by many departmental presidents to experiment, locally, with basic income. The latter would have the virtue of covering these young people, while guaranteeing automatic rights, thus eliminating the non-recourse. A year ago, at the end of this work, the Socialist and Related Group tabled a bill to this effect; Your majority rejected it without debate, and against the opinion of many parliamentary groups of different sensitivities. The health crisis and its economic consequences are now driving several countries to consider this solution in order to ameliorate the shock, which risks turning a large number of people into precariousness, and in particular the 700000 young adults who have just completed their education or training. On 12 April, departmental presidents again appealed to them to be allowed to set up this last bulwark against the consequences of the health crisis. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Are you going to hear that call? If not, what measures do you intend to take to help young people? The President of the Republic has already confessed that he was wrong about the public hospital; Perhaps it is time to concede that the reform of unemployment insurance and the refusal to experiment with basic income were mistakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u51	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u52	Three and a half months ago – that seems far away – we began to see a significant drop in youth unemployment: by more than 20%, it had risen to 18%, this rate being, of course, still high. But with the reform of learning, we were on the right track. I share your concern on this point: youth must be one of the priorities of the recovery plan. In such a difficult time for the country, if the only message we send to our youth is that their future is completely blocked, then we are going to face catastrophes. Young people are already very sensitive to ecological debt; the financial debt is there; They must at least be able to approach their own future in confidence. This is why several short- and medium-term measures need to be taken. In the short term, the Government has decided to grant immediate assistance of EUR 200 to 815000 young people in precarious situations. It is aimed at young people who have allegedly been deprived of internships or jobs because of the crisis. The Youth Guarantee and the CAPEA – an accompanying programme for employment and autonomy – continue to work. I asked the local missions to take care of it during confinement. During this period, the Youth Guarantee was designed to provide greater flexibility so that it would continue to benefit young people. The most important thing for them is the hope of training and access to employment. As of tomorrow, the first theme addressed in the consultation with the social partners will be learning. Many proposals are on the table. I am confident that one of the key components of the recovery plan will be to maintain the momentum for learning at a time when anything could point to the opposite. It is our collective duty to enable young people to continue to train, develop their skills and build their future. Today, there is no disaffection of young people for learning. The network of a thousand apprenticeship training centres with which we are in contact is already registering a request for next year's school year. Since the reform, young people have understood that this is a path of excellence. In order for companies to meet, we must accompany them. This will be part of the recovery plan that we will discuss with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u53	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u54	Because of the crisis of the covid-19, you have decided to postpone to 1 September the entry into force of the new rules for the calculation of unemployment benefit, resulting from the reform of the unemployment insurance. Under the new method of calculation, periods of inactivity will be taken into account in determining the reference daily wage as the basis for calculating the amount of compensation. The reference daily wage will therefore be calculated no longer on the days worked in the last 12 months but on a monthly income which will take into account the days worked and periods of inactivity. I do not want to debate the merits of the reform here, but to welcome the postponement to 1 September, which is a matter of common sense, and to question you about the uncertainties that remain over the duration of the crisis, which can see successive rebounds. Could the scenario of a long crisis or an imminent second wave lead you to review your copy in order to limit the consequences for job seekers and not to increase long-term unemployment? In this case, are you considering a further postponement? We are facing a serious health crisis, which is not yet over and which is causing a major economic crisis. It should not be coupled with a social crisis that would also cause many victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u55	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u56	Among its various measures, the reform of unemployment insurance includes the modification of the calculation of the daily reference wage, which was to enter into force on 1 April 2020. This aspect of the reform is based on a simple and fair principle: one must not be able to earn more by being unemployed than by working. Under this principle, unemployment benefits may never be less than 65 per cent of an individual's average net monthly wage, or more than 96 per cent, whereas they can currently reach 200 per cent. The measure also seeks to correct a deep inequity in the rules of unemployment insurance. Today, a person who works for one year at half-time is compensated almost twice as much as a person who works full-time every other day, despite an equivalent amount of work. The reform was therefore based on the principle of equal pay for equal work. However, given the exceptional context, should the reform, in fact just on the merits, be adjusted? As a first step, we considered that April 1 was not a suitable date to implement such a measure, although it was fair, for obvious reasons of communication and approach. We have therefore postponed the entry into force to 1 September in order to discuss, with the necessary pragmatism and setbacks, with the social partners. Of course, we are not considering going back to the political principle that work must pay more. But how can it be applied to the calculation of the reference daily wage in the coming period? One can consider moving sliders with a certain pragmatism in view of the context. The reform of unemployment insurance consists not of abandoning just and useful principles but of adapting to the circumstances and adjusting what needs to be done after discussion with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u57	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u58	In addition to the health crisis, the economic crisis has quickly become a social crisis. There is great concern for the poorest households, whose situation is likely to worsen in the coming weeks and months. The question of the reform of unemployment insurance is more necessary than ever in times of economic crisis, I have had the opportunity to say earlier. Even more than reviewing existing mechanisms, it seems urgent to invent new ones that are more protective. I am thinking in particular of the younger ones and the students for whom the current crisis is more than ever synonymous with uncertainty or even great concern. In this context of unprecedented gravity, the Government's decision to grant students €200 was necessary – probably insufficient. The situation of students and young people is all the more worrying as prospects for entry into the labour market are restricted. However, since January 2019 and the abolition of the first job search aid, there is no longer any support for young people wishing to enter the labour market. Having never worked, they are not entitled to unemployment benefits or to the RSA. It is therefore imperative that the reflections on unemployment insurance lead to accompanying and supporting measures for young people. Among these, the re-establishment of the ARPE and the opening of the RSA to children under 25 years of age may be considered. Is the Government prepared to support such measures for young people who are particularly vulnerable to the crisis? What steps are you planning to take to facilitate access to youth employment, including the first job for students?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u59	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u60	No one is calling for the reinstatement of the ARPE, which was abolished by the previous government, as the effectiveness of the ARPE has not been proven. On the other hand, we must be careful to preserve the very strong dynamic of learning, which allows young people to combine theoretical studies with work experience, and which has a remarkable degree of integration. That is why we have taken immediate steps to safeguard the apprenticeship contracts of the nearly 500,000 young people who hold them today. Thus, those whose enterprises had recourse to partial unemployment were able to benefit from the scheme, all their remuneration being taken into account; the Minister of National Education and I have authorized the graduation by continuous monitoring this year; the contracts could be extended until graduation if necessary; Apprenticeship training centres have introduced distance training – I welcome their outstanding work in this area, since 90% of them managed to develop it while they were not doing it a few months ago. This is an achievement for the future, which will benefit young people in rural areas or with disabilities, as well as all those for whom access to learning is difficult. We are pleased to note that contract breaches are rare. What we're worried about is coming back next year. It calls for a huge mobilisation and accompanying mechanism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Apprenticeship offers a path not only to employment but also to qualification, and thus to prospects. We must act decisively to develop it and thus give young people a future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u61	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u62	A little backwards: last summer, the Government, under your leadership, chose to reform unemployment insurance by decree – I insist –. You have thus ignored any parliamentary debate on a subject which concerns millions of people. I do not go back to this episode, which says much about your conception of democracy and which I consider to be a drift, alas, allowed by the Fifth Republic. To be frank, Madam Minister, I find it difficult to take seriously the statement that you repeat to us in the envious that you are discussing with the social partners since you have never done so so far. I quote, in support of my question, the opinion – which will not have escaped you since your ministry is competent to follow the positions of the trade union organisations – of the CFDT – I do not even mention the hirsutes of the CGT or FO: the CFDT calls the impact of your reform "dreadful"! Within the limits of the exercise of questions, I would like to draw your attention to the health impact of your reform on the unemployed and the precarious. Containment and adaptation to the new rules of social distancing will put hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk. Yesterday, the President of the Republic himself said: "We are going to suffer" in terms of employment. And what are you doing, Madam Minister? You maintain your reform, which reduces the rights of the unemployed. Don't say, "We're going to suffer! "They're going to suffer! – I think it's more accurate. You are tightening the conditions for compensation, depriving thousands of our fellow citizens of their rights, and you yourself acknowledge that your reform is weakening social protection. I want to point out that, at this difficult time, you have suspended it, probably considering that it might aggravate the situation. We do not agree with your biased reasoning, which leads you to encourage the unemployed, who, of course, need you to decide to look for work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u64	If we don't encourage them, of course, they'll stay at home! Can't you at least, as Pierre Dharréville asked, grant the unemployed a white year? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For our part, we will continue, along with many others, to ask you with determination for the complete abandonment of the reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u65	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u66	It is not the Government alone that decides to make a reform by decree; it is a law, passed under a previous Government, that provides for it. We therefore respect the texts and the decree is taken after discussions with the social partners, which sometimes reveal disagreements, sometimes agreements. Between social democracy and political democracy, between government and social partners, convergences are not abnormal. It is just as normal, in a democracy, not to agree on everything. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In substance, I am surprised that you did not mention, under the heading of protection, what France has just done in an unprecedented way with regard to partial activity. You have not pointed out that more than 12 million employees have been protected in this framework for the past three months and that a million companies have been saved from bankruptcy, thereby eliminating the risk of dismissal. I am shocked that you do not mention such social protection measures because we, as a Frenchman, can be proud to have protected 12 million employees in this crisis. Secondly, you claim that we did not discuss it with the social partners. But what have we been doing for two months? Twice a week, we hold one and a half hours of telephone meetings, during which we work together: and I can assure you that they are dense. What have we done for more than two months? We have defined the terms and conditions of partial unemployment, we have extended them to nursery assistants, home workers, VRPs, seamen, seamen and fishermen – to all those who were not entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u68	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have taken full responsibility for wages up to four and a half times the SMIC to prevent a company from facing the dilemma of partial unemployment and dismissal. We have ensured that wage repayments are paid in ten days, so that SMEs do not become involved. This success in social protection must be highlighted. Another project on which we are working with the social partners is the health and protection of workers. We have drawn up, in consultation with the social partners, a de-defining protocol and sixty-four sectoral guides. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yes, we haven't solved all the problems yet. We worked first to protect the employment and health of workers. We are now addressing the other issues, including the revival of employment and unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1214.u69	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
