ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u1	The Speaker of the National Assembly received a letter from Laurent Furst, Member of Parliament for the sixth constituency of Lower Rhine, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of Saturday, June 27, 2020. By a communication dated Friday 19 June 2020, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Mr Laurent Furst was replaced until the National Assembly was renewed by Mr Philippe Meyer, who was elected together with him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft organic law postponing the election of six senators representing the French from outside France and the by-elections for deputies and senators representing the French from outside France (No. 3121, 3125).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u4	The fight against the covid-19 epidemic has changed our habits and upset our daily lives. It also made it necessary to suspend the democratic process for a few weeks. Yesterday, throughout France, with the exception of Guyana, the 16.5 million voters living in communes where the first round of municipal elections did not allow the municipal councils to be elected went to the polls to bring the electoral process to a successful conclusion. At the end of the week, 5000 communes will appoint their executive. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the prefects, mayors and all the teams who have made it possible to organise yesterday's election in the best health and democratic conditions possible. I had committed myself before you that the Ministry of the Interior would equip all the municipalities concerned with surgical masks or general public, visors and hydro-alcoholic gel, and to support the municipalities so that the health constraints surrounding this election would not cost the local taxpayer: this commitment was fulfilled. However, without the mobilization of all the local services of the prefectures and communes, the correct application of the recommendations of the Scientific Council covid-19 would not have been possible; I thank them in particular. I extend my congratulations and a republican greeting to all the new elected officials, and I thank again all the outgoing teams, who have faced with courage and will the health crisis of the last few months. Some thought that their municipal commitment would be interrupted by the deadline originally set in March; Three months later, their involvement, which remained total, deserves to be welcomed. If, for the time being, the epidemic in metropolitan France shows no sign of a general recovery, the situation is unfortunately not the same throughout the world, especially in the southern hemisphere, where several countries remain heavily affected. This finding of an ongoing pandemic worldwide has led us to adjust the electoral calendar, particularly for consular elections and for certain areas of our territory where the virus remains active. By adopting the bill to secure the organisation of the second round of municipal elections, you have in particular, in accordance with the amendment adopted in this Chamber, cancelled the voting operations in Guyana and provided for their complete reorganization by January 2021 at the latest. You also decided to postpone to May 2021 the consular elections, the organization of which anywhere in the world was impossible in view of the health situation. These decisions are wise. They were necessary. However, they have consequences, to which this text will respond. With regard to Senate elections first, the Constitutional Council's jurisprudence of 15 December 2005 is clear and unambiguous: the complete renewal of senators in an electoral district requires an election by a "majorly" renewed electoral college. In September 2020, the six Senators representing the French living abroad in Series 2 were to be appointed. If the election were held as planned, these new senators would be elected, as a result of the postponement of the consular elections, by the same electoral college as in 2014, which would be unconstitutional. That is why the organic bill that I propose to pass is intended to postpone the renewal of Senators representing the French living abroad in Series 2 to September 2021. Their term of office will be reduced by one year so as not to affect the electoral calendar for a long time. We should mention the situation in Guyana, whose senators are also to be renewed in September. The health situation in Guyana is mobilising us fully – I was exchanging with the president of the territorial community of Guyana, Rodolphe Alexandre. I welcome the mobilization of local authorities, health personnel and State personnel to accompany Guyana in the fight against covid-19. The situation led us to cancel the second round of municipal elections and, in the communes where it was to take place – which are only seven, however – to reorganise the two rounds by January 2021. Even in the absence of a total renewal of the major electors, the Senate elections can therefore be held at the due date. This draft organic law contains several other important provisions. He postponed the organization of possible parliamentary and senatorial by-elections in the areas of the virus circulation until January 2021. The Guyanese and French elected representatives living abroad are the first to be affected by this provision, which gives us the tools necessary to reconcile democratic life with health risks. The text also includes a necessary adjustment of the provisions concerning declarations to HATVP – High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. I welcome the joint work that has been done with the Commission to achieve this result. The text that you are going to consider is the subject of a consensus, beyond partisan divisions. I welcome the work of the rapporteur, Guillaume Vuilletet, as well as the commitment of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and Administration of the Republic to enable it to be adopted in conformity and, consequently, the speedy entry into force of its provisions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Organic Bill is both necessary and useful. It illustrates the ability to adapt and anticipate our democracy. It is also a sign of joint and successful parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u5	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u6	This organic bill is the final step in taking the consequences of the covid -19 epidemic on our electoral calendar. Indeed, this epidemic will have profoundly affected our social and professional relations, but also disrupted the election deadlines of spring and more generally democratic life. Like the Minister, I extend a republican greeting to all elected candidates, elected officials who are no longer elected, to the citizens and staff who ensured the holding of the second round of municipal elections, in compliance with the commitments made by the Government, that is to say, in secure and serene conditions for all participants. I have a more personal thought for Nicole Dodrelle, Mayor of Parmain, Jean-Louis Delannoy, Mayor of Mériel, and William Rouyer, Mayor of Viarmes, who had not planned to continue their mandate beyond March and nevertheless held, ensuring the permanence of the public service and the defence of the general interest in this complex period; They remained at their post much longer than they had imagined, until 28 June and even a little later, until the installation of the new municipal councils. The organic bill before us is part of the same process, as it is about setting the best possible conditions for the September Senate elections. As you know, there have long been uncertainties about the organisation of the second round of municipal elections and the holding of consular elections, in a context of the active circulation of the virus. A month ago, when we did not know how the epidemic was going to evolve, the Government considered different assumptions. This approach, welcomed by the Council of State, was not intended to force national representation to decide on simple scenarios, but rather to allow us the ability to make the most appropriate decisions for further electoral operations. The organic bill was thus introduced by the Government on 27 May, in conjunction with the ordinary bill that we passed last week. It aims to solve one main difficulty: to ensure the legitimacy of the election college of Senators in Series 2 with a view to their renewal next September. Indeed, as a result of the changes in the electoral calendar, in some departments or constituencies, the majority of this college would have been composed of representatives whose mandate has been extended because of the epidemiological context. Such a situation would have led to a high risk of unconstitutionality, as on December 15, 2005, the Constitutional Council considered that senators could not be appointed "by a college largely composed of elected officials exercising their mandate beyond its normal term." To resolve this difficulty, the draft organic law provided for the following measures in its original version: the extension of the term of office of Senators in Series 2 – until September 2021 – to allow time for a new election, in January 2021 for the municipal elections and in May 2021 for the consular elections; the postponement, by consistency, of the partial parliamentary and senatorial elections until the renewal of the electoral college. However, since the presentation of the text, the context has changed. The Scientific Council has issued several public notices, notably on 8 June and 14 June, which report a slowdown in the circulation of the virus in France, even if a resumption of contamination remains possible. I would like to point out that almost 200 clusters have been identified since the breakdown and that the situation in certain departments in the Great East, Mayotte and Guyana, as well as in our European neighbours, must prompt us to be cautious. The President of the Republic also spoke on 14 June on the development of the health situation, which remains generally positive, and on the further deconfination. As a result, the Government confirmed the second round yesterday, in sanitary conditions that would minimize exposure to the virus. We also decided, by adopting the ordinary bill, to postpone the consular elections to May 2021 in view of the evolution of the epidemic at the international level. The Senate naturally drew the consequences by amending the provisions of the organic bill: the postponement of the renewal of Series 2 by one year would only apply to the six senators representing the French established outside France in this series, whose electoral college will be renewed only in the consular elections of May 2021. This is the subject of Article 1. The postponement of the by-elections would apply, in coherence, only to the deputies and senators of the French established outside France. That is what Article 2 provides for. Finally, a provision to secure parliamentarians' reporting obligations to HATVP was adopted in an Article 1a. As I did in committee, I welcome the work done by the rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Laws, Mr Philippe Bas, by all the political groups and by the Government to achieve this common sense solution, which our committee has adopted without reservation. The proposed provisions are unprecedented since they will allow the renewal of Series 2 without simultaneously renewing the six senators representing the French living abroad in the same series. However, they are justified by a sufficient reason of general interest: the adaptation of the electoral calendar for reasons strictly linked to the current health context and within the time frame as close as possible to the original deadlines. This solution is in this sense, as the rapporteur of the Senate Law Committee pointed out, "a transitional adjustment, of limited magnitude and strictly proportionate". [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore invite you, as I did in committee, to adopt the text that was forwarded to us by our honourable senators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u7	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u8	In its original version, the Organic Bill provided for the postponement of all senatorial and by-election elections in the event that the second round of municipal elections could not take place. In view of the improvement of the health situation – that is happy – and the confirmation of the holding of the second round of municipal elections, the text was completely rewritten by the Government, then reworked and adopted by the Senate. The text before us thus provides for the extension of the term of office and the postponement of the renewal of the six senators representing the French from abroad elected in September 2014. The consular elections, which have been postponed, will not take place in time to allow the renewal of the electoral college of these six senators. It was therefore proposed that their term of office should be extended by one year and that the term of office of their successors should be reduced by competition. As the Senate report points out, this postponement "would be only a transitional adjustment, of limited magnitude and strictly proportionate to the exceptional circumstances that warrant it." In addition to adapting the electoral calendar to the consequences of the epidemic, the draft organic law allows for an adjustment of the modalities of declaration to the High Authority for the transparency of political life. It is logical to secure the conditions under which members and senators pass on their reporting obligations. We have no particular opposition to this text, which aims to avoid the risk of litigation to which the election of senators representing the French abroad would be exposed if it were to take place in September 2020. As the same electoral college cannot, it is known, vote twice to fill the same seats, it does not seem possible, in the light of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, for the outgoing consular advisers to be able to elect the six senators representing the French established outside France. Before concluding, I will make a comment on the elections for the next two years. In our view, these cannot in any way be the subject of adjustments or even reorganizations at the discretion of the Presidents or of any other political consideration. Democratic life should not be seen as an obstacle, but rather as a necessary, even indispensable, condition for the revival of our country. Democracy, that is, the power of the people, calls for the participation of citizens in political life. In this, voting is not a means of expression like any other. It is a political right, a strong sign of the socialization and politicization of the citizen by which he seizes and decides the affairs of the city. If citizenship establishes the social link between the individual and the political body, it is at the time of the election that the French constitute themselves in an ad hoc and symbolic way in a community of citizens. The vote thus represents a duty in civic and republican morality. For this reason, elections cannot be postponed according to the presidential agenda, the political agenda or electoral interests, far removed from the general interest. We will vote in favour of the text, while stressing the need to continue and strengthen democratic life in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u9	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u10	I congratulate you, Minister, for allowing the second round of the municipal elections to be held, so that new teams can be appointed and, by 10 July, the Community councils of all the EPCIs – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – will be renewed in order to launch the economic revival if necessary for our country. This bill is the last part of the series of texts designed to draw all the consequences of the disruption of the electoral calendar that we have experienced as a result of the health crisis. The first part postponed the second round of municipal elections for all those who could not be tried on 15 March. The second part corresponded to what happened yesterday. The third part concerns the Senate elections: they must be held wherever they are scheduled for September 20, 2020 for Series 2, except for the six French senators from abroad, since the international health situation will not allow us to bring the consular electoral corps together to elect them. The text thus provides for the postponement of the Senate elections, the extension of the term of office of the outgoing senators and the arrangements for the declaration by the six senators concerned to the High Authority for the transparency of public life. It also freezes the by-elections that could be caused by the evolution of the situation of the French senators abroad but also of the French deputies abroad. The Senate and the National Assembly agreed that the text should be voted in conformity. These issues are not new since they were all discussed, including the Senate elections, in the context of the ordinary bill to cancel the second round of municipal elections and postpone consular elections, which had clarified the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The vote by the Group of the European People's Party on the move will obviously be in favour. As we have said in committee, and I repeat, there is no question here of dealing with the cantonal elections or the regional elections scheduled for 2020; Despite all the comments, this subject is not addressed in the texts that we have already adopted or in this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u11	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u12	Like previous speakers, the UDI-I Group approved the bill to postpone the election of the six senators representing the French from outside France. As the elections of consular advisers had been postponed, it was necessary, in accordance with constitutional jurisprudence, to secure the Senate elections. Echoing our colleague Stéphane Peu, I would remind you that it is important that such postponements should remain exceptional: we will be vigilant about this. Finally, I will make a personal remark. Since these six senators represent very different geographical spaces, in the two hemispheres, where the epidemic crisis is changing in a different way, it is necessary to prepare for the election in some regions not to be held next year. Therefore, it is likely that a period should be defined rather than a fixed one. Let us make sure that the elections can actually be held under regular conditions in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u13	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u14	The draft organic law concludes a series of electoral legislation, the epidemic having obviously stagnated the initial timetable. However, with a few exceptions, we were able to complete the general renewal of the municipal councils yesterday, and I would like to congratulate all those elected. In the coming months, we will need the communes and intercommunities to cope with the consequences of the health crisis and to accompany the country's economic recovery. I'm going to the text. In its original version, the Organic Bill was intended to postpone the election of 178 senators by one year, scheduled for September 2020. However, since the second round of municipal elections was held yesterday, there is no longer any justification for such a general postponement. Senators, anticipating this situation, have largely changed the text so that it will stick to the only question that remains truly outstanding: the situation of the six senators representing the French who were established outside France elected in September 2014. We adopted, fifteen days ago, the postponement of the consular elections, which will finally be held in May 2021. As a result, the electoral college of senators representing the French abroad could not be renewed, with consular advisers representing about 95% of the major voters. For this reason, the organic bill, rewritten by the Senate, now provides for a one-year extension of the six senators' term of office: their successors will be elected in September 2021 for a five-year term. MODEM considers that this solution provides the necessary constitutional guarantees. Indeed, the constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council requires the renewal of the college of great voters. It is therefore not desirable that the outgoing consular advisers should again be called upon to participate in the election of the six senators representing the French established outside France. The extension of the mandate until 2021 is a transitional arrangement since the renewal of the terms of office of the senators concerned will take place as close as possible to the normal deadline, of limited scope as it concerns only six senators, and proportionate to the particularly exceptional circumstances. I will say a word from Guyana, where the health situation has led to the cancellation of the municipal elections in seven communes: two rounds will have to be organised there as soon as possible. However, this cancellation does not have the same consequences for Senate elections as the postponement of consular elections. Indeed, fifteen out of twenty-two municipal councils were elected in the first round, including two of the three largest urban municipalities, including Cayenne. This has made it possible to designate more than three-quarters of the major electors, thus respecting, in our view, the requirement for the renewal of the electoral college. The draft organic law also provides for the freezing of by-elections for deputies and senators representing French nationals established outside France until May 2021. Finally, it secures parliamentarians' declarative obligations to HATVP. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, since the provisions contained therein were entirely appropriate to the circumstances, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement would obviously support the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u15	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u16	This is a relatively consensual bill as it draws the consequences of changes in the electoral calendar following the crisis of the covid-19. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The second round of municipal elections took place yesterday, and although it was organised in extremis, it went very well – I would like to take this opportunity to greet all the municipal councillors as well as the councillors of Paris and Lyon who were elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u17	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u18	The Senate elections will therefore be held in September, except for Senators representing the French from abroad in Series 2 since the designation of their electoral corps was postponed until May 2021. As a result, the election of the six senators is itself postponed until September 2021, with the current terms being extended until that date. Such a postponement is logical since, in many Latin American countries, whether Brazil, Peru, Chile or Colombia, the epidemic remains extremely active, which would prevent the appointment of the electoral college of French senators abroad. The bill includes the necessary provisions for declarations of heritage status: senators whose term of office is to end having already submitted their declaration of heritage status at the end of their term of office, it is consistent not to ask them to repeat one next year, knowing that a supplementary declaration will remain mandatory if a change in their heritage occurs. Finally, with the electoral corps frozen for an additional year, all by-elections involving the French abroad are frozen. It would be inappropriate to hold an election in those circumstances, including that of a Member. The bill respects the principle that an assembly cannot extend the term of office of its members other than strictly justified on grounds of general interest. He therefore does not call for any particular observation or objection by the Socialist and related group. (Applause from the SOC Group. – The rapporteur-general also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u19	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u20	The text, discussed following the hypothetical text on the cancellation of the second round on June 28, was primarily intended to postpone the election of the 178 senators scheduled for September of this year by one year. Article 2 therefore originally provided for the postponement of the partial parliamentary and senatorial elections, in order to avoid the organisation of these elections, although the health situation does not permit it. It was based on the assumption that the second round of municipal elections could not be held in June, due to the health crisis, thus preventing the full renewal of the electoral corps for the senatorial elections. Yet the most realistic and legitimate question was missing: the extension of the mandate and the postponement of the renewal of the six senators representing the French from abroad elected in September 2014. As the second round of municipal elections took place yesterday, 28 June, there is no longer any justification for a general postponement of the senatorial elections. On the other hand, with the postponement of the consular elections, it is impossible to organize the election of the 443 consular advisers throughout the world. In September 2020, for the first time, the Senate will be faced with an unprecedented situation: of the 178 seats scheduled for renewal throughout the national territory, only 172 will be elected, and not the six senators representing the French abroad. It is therefore necessary to decide the question of the renewal of the six senators concerned, elected in September 2014. The organic bill has been completely rewritten in the Senate for this purpose: it now provides for the extension of their mandates by one year; their successors will be elected in September 2021 for a period of five years. This solution is the one that provides the most constitutional guarantees and is a transitional adjustment, limited in scope and strictly proportionate to the circumstances. The text also provides for the freezing, until May 2021, of by-elections for deputies and senators representing the French established outside France. No amendments were made to the text in committee. Purely technical, it does not pose any difficulties in principle but takes note of the health situation. Accordingly, the LR Group supports it. However, we do not want the electoral calendar to be called into question more generally, on the pretext of putting the economy back on track quickly with a view to relaunching and deepening decentralization. It is our duty to recall that we will not treat the exit of the crisis by democratic upheaval. It is not because economic and social recovery is necessary – no one denies it here – that elections must be postponed and democratic life must be put in brackets. Our territories need to benefit from a democratic revival, scheduled for 2021, in the current timetable, with the departmental and regional elections. Let us be careful when we touch on the electoral calendar. In its decision of 17 June 2020, which follows on from a priority issue of constitutionality, the Constitutional Council recalls that the electoral calendars must be normal and predictable, and that the delay in voting must be made only for compelling reasons, without disregarding the right to vote and without prejudice to the sincerity of the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The record forbearance recorded yesterday must encourage us to be very cautious. Our compatriots stand out a little more from our democracy at every election that paces it. The fixing of a date of the electoral calendar must not be done by the prince. It must not be the subject of bargaining between such and such executive. Electoral rules cannot be manipulated. Let us not forget that democracy is fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u23	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u24	Trust in democracy is fragile, we measure it more than ever after the second round of municipal elections, where the turnout rate, barely 40 per cent, is historically low. The French shunned the ballot box, which is, however, that of proximity. We have no doubt that the analyses will succeed in explaining the reasons for such abstention. It is a reality: the divide between our citizens and current governance is growing. After the yellow vests, the reform of pensions and now a rather chaotic management of the crisis of the covid-19, the French worry and lose every day a little more confidence. As if that were not enough, we see the possibility of a postponement of the regional elections, through a decentralization bill. However, we believe that the electoral calendar should not serve the interests of any particular political formation. The future of the territories, which are a real chance for our country, as the health crisis has shown, requires a law of decentralization to the height of the stakes and the general interest, built around a triptych: decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration. This is what the Libertés et Territoires Group is calling for, and has drawn up a report with fifty proposals to this end. The electoral calendar should only be touched with a trembling hand, and the organic bill was an example of that. He originally planned to postpone the election of the 178 Senators in Series 2 if the second round of municipal elections could not be held in June 2020. This vote took place yesterday; Therefore, it is no longer appropriate to maintain the provisions relating to all Senators in Series 2. On the other hand, the postponement of the consular elections to May 2021 requires the postponement of the senatorial elections of the six Senators in Series 2 representing the French abroad. Several constitutional issues could arise, including the length of the term of office of these six senators, but the Senate has been able to overcome them. For our group, the solution it has proposed seems satisfactory, especially since the text sets a date for the renewal of these seats: in September 2021, in accordance with article 25 of the Constitution, according to which "an organic law sets the duration of the powers of each assembly". Furthermore, we welcome the provision on securing the declaratory obligations of the parliamentarians concerned vis-à-vis the High Authority for the transparency of public life. Our group will vote in favour of this text, while calling on the Government to be cautious about further changes in the electoral calendar.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u25	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u26	As the second round of municipal elections took place yesterday, the consequences of the health crisis on the senatorial election will be less than initially expected, and the scope of the organic bill seems reasonable. I therefore believe that this text will be adopted with great unanimity. However, the outcome of yesterday's elections must prompt us to question ourselves deeply. Since the timetable makes us debate this text the next day after the second round, we must talk about the democratic context. We saw him yesterday, the French people entered a cold civic strike. Abstention reached record levels for a municipal election, despite being known as the French's favourite election: mayors were elected with 40% of the voters on the lists! This must challenge us about the general organisation of our democracy: the French no longer believe in it and desert the ballot box. Health fear has played a significant role, but the long trend towards increased abstention should not be overlooked. The election night yesterday was terrible: the traditional parties were bragging at what they considered to be victories, forgetting the deaf anger of the people. More and more abstainers make their gesture a militant gesture which means: "I do not vote for them to understand, I do not vote, to delegitimize them. Abstentionism is a form of political degagism, but it does not achieve any result. Will he take a more violent form? That's to be feared. If that were the case, the power would react by further strengthening the authoritarianism of our institutions. Precisely, the senatorial election is the undemocratic election par excellence: the people do not participate directly in it, do not know the stakes or the timetable; He doesn't know, overall, what's going on there. In the aftermath of such a debacle for French democracy, we see a break between the people, a very theoretical sovereign, and the institutions of the Fifth Republic. More than ever, we need to change our institutions from bottom to bottom, not just a cosmetic change. A constituent assembly must be convened for the people themselves to re-establish the institutions of their sovereignty. We need to respond to the democratic crisis before us, by redefining political institutions for a VIth Republic, democratic, ecological and social, which implies questioning the relevance of maintaining the Senate. Bicameralism is not obvious. The first two French republics, those of 1792 and 1848, had a single chamber. The establishment of an upper chamber is historically and systematically a concession to the camp of reaction. The Senate of the Third Republic, which continues, is no exception to this rule. Since 1958, this chamber has been supposed to represent the territories. With what tangible results? None!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u27	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u28	I do not believe that any citizen feels territorially represented by senators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u29	Jean-Luc Mélenchon definitely doesn't like them...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u30	One might wonder how their work improved the law, when the National Assembly decided as a last resort and that it was, in fact, little or no version of the Government that was adopted, with the Government and its majority having little regard to parliamentary work. If, by virtue of the Russelist theory, the general will is unique, how can it be represented by two assemblies with differing opinions? We are opposed to an upper chamber, elected by local leaders, tempering the decisions of a directly elected assembly by the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u31	When we know that Mélenchon has served twice as a senator!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u32	Let's vote in favour of this bill, but let's ask ourselves: Isn't it time to delete the Senate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u33	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u34	In his dystopia Fahrenheit 451, Ray Bradbury wrote: "If you don't want a man to get unhappy with politics, don't break his head by offering him two points of view on a question; Ask him in one. Better yet, don't offer him any. He tells of the evolution towards a dictatorship of one thought, where thought is evacuated, where books are burned in public place. In our democracy, the Senate is essential – contrary to what my colleague Lachaud has just said – because it proposes a different, wise, political point of view...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u35	Not wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u36	...on the issues discussed in our assembly. It is therefore necessary to ensure the proper functioning of this Chamber and the smooth conduct of the election of its members; It is about the health of our political regime. I remember the passage to the left of the High Chamber and the election of Jean-Pierre Bel as President. I then joined his office to take charge of the communication. Under the presidency of Jean-Pierre Bel, in his words, the Senate was dusted and became "more modern and more modest".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u37	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u38	This afternoon, we are discussing the renewal of the term of office of some Senators in Series 2. Senators representing the French established in France are elected by a college of great voters comprising deputies, senators, regional councillors, departmental councillors and delegates of municipal councils. The Group of the European People's Party welcomed yesterday's holding of the second round of municipal elections, which will help maintain the original timetable for the renewal of half of the French senators. The situation of senators representing the French living outside France is more problematic. They are mainly elected by the French foreign councillors, whose election, originally scheduled for this month, could not be held due to health conditions. As a Member of Parliament for the ninth constituency of French people living abroad, I had in any case been alerted by the Maghreb and West Africa Councillors for several weeks about the impossibility of campaigning. The Group of the European People's Party therefore welcomes the postponement of one year of the elections. However, I have drawn your attention in committee, Mr rapporteur, to the problems posed by this postponement. The term of office of the senators concerned will be shortened by one year. Above all, they will not be able to decide on the presidency of their chamber. However, the President of the Senate, the second person of the State, was twice called upon to serve as President of the Republic under the current regime. In addition, it has a major role in organizing the debates that take place on Rue de Vaugirard. In addition to the fact that the six senators in question will have to submit to an authority that they have not elected, the political balances of the Senate may be upset by their simultaneous election. If this resulted in a change of majority, the parliamentary shuttle could be temporarily paralyzed. I recall that in 2011, the socialist majority was played with six votes, precisely. I come to the election campaign of these six senators. Since it is planned to take place a few months before the presidential elections, the campaign for the election of the next President of the Republic will have already begun, at the risk of confusion of the stakes. Despite my criticisms, I believe that the Government is making a choice of reason, without a credible alternative: the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour. In conclusion, Mr.Minister, since we are discussing this urgently drafted law concerning the French abroad, I would like to draw your attention to one point. Students from institutions not accredited by the AEFE, the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger, will have to pass the baccalaureate in September, without the benefit of continuous monitoring. They do, however, follow the same curriculum as students residing in France and are often assessed more severely than students residing in France. This differential treatment is contrary to the principles of our Republic. There is an urgent need for the Government to reconsider its position. The young people in my constituency come to me every day on this subject; They've got the ball in their stomach. The confinement and the health crisis did not allow them to prepare calmly for the baccalaureate exams, which were indispensable for the continuation of their studies. I will end with Hugo's words: "Freedom, equality, fraternity are dogmas of peace and harmony. Let us treat all students according to these principles and put an end to discrimination by place of residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u39	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u40	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u41	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u42	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u43	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u44	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 3074, 3132).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u45	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u46	Six months ago, France recorded its best economic performance in ten years. Our growth rate, one of the highest in the euro area, was 1.5%, nearly 1% higher than that of Germany. Unemployment fell below 8% in metropolitan France. Investment was on the rise: France had become the most attractive country in Europe for foreign investment. Six months ago, thanks to our economic policy of supply, our fiscal policy and the transformation of the labour market that we had undertaken, you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, won the economic bet of the President of the Republic: weak France had again become strong France. It was six months ago, it was another world. In a few weeks, triggered by an unknown virus, an economic storm of unprecedented brutality in our contemporary history has struck the world. This storm has left no country, no continent unharmed: it has caused and will continue to cause bankruptcies by thousands and dismissals by millions; It has ravaged years of effort, investment and work in China, Europe and America. In France, this translates into two rates: -11% and 121%. The first, -11%, is the level of recession we expect for 2020, despite the first encouraging signs that we are beginning to see regarding consumption, industrial activity and household morale. The second, 121 per cent, is the level of public debt in 2020. We have been indebted, but wisely, to save our economy. This rate, 121 per cent, reflects the exceptional mobilization of the State, the public authorities, to protect businesses, employees and the self-employed. But, the "covid debt", we will have to repay it. We will repay it by growth and not by taxes. We will pay it back by cantoning it and separating it from the original 100 points of debt. We will therefore adopt the same strategy as for social debt, which has been confined to the CADES – social debt amortization fund – and which will be repaid by 2033. The economic storm has fallen but has not disappeared. We do not know where and when the economy can still be hit by the epidemic. This uncertainty hinders economic recovery, slows down world trade and demands that we combine work recovery with health protection, which is equally essential for maintaining productivity. In the face of this situation, I want to hold the speech of truth that has been mine since the beginning of the crisis. It will take at least two years to return to the level of GDP that we achieved at the end of 2019. It will take us two years, but we will: in two years, France will have regained its economic vitality, because it will have chosen the decarbonization of its economy, new technologies and support for investments. We must accelerate the ecological transition – as the President of the Republic said earlier – we must continue to choose sustainable growth. But sustainable growth presupposes growth: there will be no sustainable growth if there is no short-term growth, which implies investments, capital, attractiveness, innovation and the control of our public finances. We will not decarbonize the economy by killing our businesses; On the contrary, they will accelerate decarbonation. We will return to economic vitality also because, throughout its history, France has been able to draw on its national genius to overcome the harshest periods of its economic or financial life. Jacques Coeur, the first great silversmith of the Kingdom of France, helped Charles VII to regain the territory occupied by the English in difficult times for France. Sully, the Superintendent of Finance of King Henry IV, sanitized the currency, settled the debts and reduced the taxes of a kingdom that would run to its loss, proof that France knew how to draw on its national genius to overcome its difficulties. [["Ah! » on various benches]] And Colbert, the great Colbert,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u47	Provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u48	Yes! Provocative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u49	... whose statue is the pride of this House, has restored the finances of an absolute monarchy to the brink of bankruptcy. The black code, published in 1685 after Colbert's death, must be condemned without tearing apart his other achievements during his lifetime, which made France's glory in Europe: the civil ordinance of 1667, the ordinance of the waters and forests of 1669, the commercial code of 1673, the order of the navy of 1681. Let's look our story in the face, but let's not tear it apart. We will finally regain our economic vitality, because, since the first day of the crisis, we have been able to protect our businesses and jobs, our economic capital and our human capital. Rather than let the economic storm take over our jobs and businesses, we took emergency measures, which central bankers would call "unconventional" and which I would call "fair", "necessary" and "effective". Evidence that liberal democracies, in France and elsewhere, can intervene as quickly and powerfully as authoritarian regimes; also shows that the republican state retains its expertise and its full capacity for action in the economic and financial fields. For some, the state still does too much in times of growth – it is, in general, the same people who will tell us that it never does enough in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u51	These are the charms of French contradictions... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In forty-eight hours, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, we released EUR 300 billion of state-guaranteed loans to support the cash flow of the most troubled companies, we put in place the most generous partial unemployment scheme in Europe, we opened a solidarity fund for the self-employed and the TPEs – which we have continuously improved to meet the expectations and concerns of the professionals – we have, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, will remind us, postponed or cancelled the social and tax charges of all the professionals who needed them: I will never let it be said that the state was not on the verge of the crisis! The state responded well, fast and strong! We only did our job, but we did it quickly and well, because we did it together, with you, the parliamentarians, with the social partners, with the local elected representatives, in particular the regional presidents, with the professional sectors, with the economists and with the other European states. We will continue on this path of a coordinated recovery, implemented with the regions, whose economic powers will be decisive. Some, driven by a kind of French-style Schadenfreude, claim that we would have done less quickly and less well than Germany. These are again, in general, the same people who refuse to restore public finances in the summer and complain that the caisses are empty in the winter. Between the cicada and the ant, you have to choose! Moreover, I contest these biased presentations of the German and French recovery plans. The reality is that the sums disbursed are comparable and the economic choices are consistent, which is good news for both our countries and for Europe, because the economic recovery will be all the more effective as it will be coordinated between the two largest European economies. For several weeks now, together with my colleagues finance minister Olaf Scholz and economic minister Peter Altmaier, we have increased our exchanges. These exchanges had only one ambition: to block to overcome the crisis; block to launch new projects, such as Gaia-X for data storage or hydrogen alliance; make a bloc to deploy a massive European revival, on the basis of the historic agreement between Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron. The only major difference between our two countries is Germany's choice to reduce its VAT rate substantially, with the revenue from this levy being 5 percentage points higher than in France. This choice is consistent with the deficit in domestic demand in Germany, but it would be inconsistent in France, where the VAT rate is one of the lowest in Europe and where the first economic challenge is not the weakness of demand, but that of supply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u52	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u53	Truth below the Rhine, error beyond. Yes, the hardest thing remains to be done, but I have confidence in our economy's ability to remain at the forefront of global economies if we make clear and courageous choices behind the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. These economic choices, which you are going to make and which I come to present to you on the occasion of the introduction of the third amending finance bill, commit us for a generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u54	[[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] A real Prime Minister's speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u55	The first choice is employment. We expect at least 800,000 job losses by the end of 2020. Announcements of bankruptcies, downsizing or difficulties for companies have increased in recent days, from Nokia to Sanofi, to BorgWarner in Corrèze, Camaïeu or Conforama. Behind these names are hidden...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u56	A bunch of thugs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u57	... the concerns and anxieties of tens of thousands of employees and of all territories. We will be vigilant, demanding and fully mobilized to defend our economic fabric and support every employee. In a few weeks, 700000 young people will be entering the labour market, where they may find themselves closed. It is our duty to find solutions for them. The Bill on Amending Finance encourages learning,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u58	That's not a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u59	... which is one of the great successes of the last three years: 50,000 young people became apprentices in 2019. France was in the process of making a real cultural revolution on learning. We must know how to go, as we say on the left benches of the Chamber, at the end of a revolution: we will go to the end of the revolution of learning, which does not cut heads but makes them grow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u60	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u61	For this, we will pay, as announced by the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, a bonus of 8000 euros for the employment of a major apprentice and 5000 euros for that of an apprentice minor. We will extend this arrangement to professionalization contracts. In addition, we are working with the social partners to reduce the cost of hiring young people – some of you have put forward proposals on the subject. The second option is sustainable growth. In a world that goes faster and faster, there is a virtue to stop. This obliges us to think: what model of growth do we want for France and for Europe? Do we want the leak ahead? Continue to consume and produce regardless of environmental cost? Keep throwing away for no reason? Continue to travel to earn a few minutes with polluting transport when there is another solution? Continue to waste without limits on the risk of ruining our planet? No, this model is out of breath, and we did not wait for the crisis of the Covid-19 to assert it. This model has exhausted resources, decimated biodiversity and exacerbated inequalities between and within states. Do we, on the contrary, want to go back two hundred years, before growth, in a world where wealth belonged to a few and where scarcity was the destiny of all? No, we reject the decline, which would lead all right to the impoverishment of the French and to a rapid economic and political downgrading of France. We want sustainable and fair growth, as the President of the Republic has wished before the Citizen's Climate Convention. We want to continue to thrive, to continue to innovate, to continue to disseminate knowledge to as many people as possible, to continue to treat with the best therapies and advanced technologies, to continue to vaccinate and to continue to feed our population with agricultural products made in France, under the best sanitary and environmental conditions. We want to live well, as we do in France, by combining respect for nature and trust in science. We will combine growth and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. We will make new technologies the best response to global warming. To those who refuse to see reality in the face, I would remind you that, if we have one of the world's most carbon-free electricity productions, we owe it to nuclear power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u63	The ecological transition must therefore be a technological transition. Hydrogen, electric flow management, renewable energy storage, electric batteries, artificial intelligence in networks: all these environmental solutions are also technological solutions, and they are all included in the sectoral plans contained in the draft law on amending finance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To all those who doubt, I would remind you that the majority must be proud not only of its environmental ambitions but also of the record of its action over the past three years to accelerate the ecological transition. It must carry its environmental record high and strong. It must recall that we have undertaken powerful measures for the energy renovation of buildings, the renewal of the fleet or the deployment of renewable energies. Who stopped the construction of Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport and the large EuropaCity shopping centre? You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Who stopped the export guarantees for coal? You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Who financed the wind fields off the Normandy coast? Who passed the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy? Who voted for the Energy and Climate Act, which sets the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050 and provides for the shutdown of the latest coal-fired power plants in France? You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! So, I beg you, be proud of what you have done and be even more ambitious for what you will do tomorrow in favour of accelerating our country's ecological transition. All those who have so strongly criticized our national choices and now find themselves, through universal suffrage, at the head of major local executives will be able to measure how much it is necessary but also how difficult it is to translate its ecological convictions into responsible decisions. The real resists, you have to learn to change it. We continue to change it, accelerating the decarbonization of our economy, through the third amending finance bill. All sectoral plans without exception will contain massive investments for the ecological transition. In aeronautics, the Council for Civil Aviation Research will receive massive support of €1.5 billion in three years, in order to develop in France technologies to reduce fuel consumption, aircraft electrification technologies and carbon neutral fuel experiments, such as hydrogen. In the automotive sector, €150 million will be invested, starting in 2020, to make France one of the most advanced countries in clean vehicle technology. We will invest in batteries, we will invest in their recycling, we will invest in hydrogen: we will be at the forefront of the clean vehicle sector in Europe. Finally, in the building, an additional €1 billion is foreseen to support community investment in ecological transition work, such as the thermal renovation of public buildings. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The third choice, finally, is solidarity. The great challenge we will face in the coming months and years will be the rise in inequality in France, Europe and around the world. We will need more national solidarity to help the most fragile, to support students who have lost their additional work to their studies, to support families who have lost their jobs. We supported them during the crisis and we will continue to do so after: it will be the honour of the majority and the national representation to have never let go of those most affected by the economic crisis. We will support them all the better because we will have returned to growth and France will create wealth. There is no redistribution of wealth without their prior creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u65	We will need more territorial solidarity for the businesses that make the vitality of the cities and villages of France. We will therefore, with this third amending finance bill, undertake three sets of measures for the self-employed, the artisans and the downtown trade. The first set of measures is intended to support the cash flow of enterprises. The solidarity fund, which has been so effective and so requested by the self-employed, artisans, traders and the professions, will be extended by one month for all, and the conditions for access to additional aid will be eased: the condition for the refusal of a State-guaranteed loan will be abolished, and 500 million euros of additional appropriations will abound the fund. The independents will also be able to release up to 8000 euros of their Madelin contract, of which 2000 euros will be fully defied. The second round of measures will revitalize the local trade in the territories. One hundred land companies will be deployed throughout France, with the help of the Bank of the Territories, to renovate 6000 small businesses. Together with local authorities – municipalities, departments, regions – they will buy vacant premises or belonging to shops about to close, renovate and rent them at a preferential rate. This is the best, most efficient and radical way to revitalize shops in rural towns and municipalities. This new support will also benefit the centres of the medium-sized cities: shops will reopen, for the benefit of all. A third set of measures will speed up the digitisation of small businesses to increase their turnover through digital technology. During the crisis, everyone found that digitalized businesses were doing better than others. Finally, we will need more European solidarity. In these exceptional circumstances, Europe has proposed extraordinary solutions: four emergency instruments and a €750 billion recovery fund financed by common debt, for the first time in European history.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u66	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u67	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At a time when the President of the Republic meets Chancellor Angela Merkel in Meseberg, all of us here can recognize, salute and encourage the decisive role of the Franco-German couple in the European economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u68	No! None of this exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u69	Men and women reveal themselves during times of crisis, as well as continents. In the economic and social crisis, the European continent has shown that it can offer a different path from that of Chinese leadership and American laissez-faire. The third draft law on amending finance will act on European emergency instruments: our SMEs will benefit from €40 billion of European Investment Bank financing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] These are the main guidelines of the third draft law on amending finance: employment, decarbonisation of the economy, innovation and European coordination are the key words. In September will come the third time of recovery. We will have to decide, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, what are the most effective instruments for our economy to regain its previous level of growth in 2022. With these decisions, I am sure, we will return to the excellent economic performance we achieved at the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020; We will return to the successes of the first three years of the quinquennium and to the prosperity that will guarantee that of future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u70	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u71	The first PLFRs – now we are talking in the plural – were those of the economic urgency for employees and businesses. After the emergency comes the time to restart, during which we must help the most affected sectors and our most fragile compatriots to get out of the economic and social crisis. Together with local and regional authorities, we must start a gradual and sustainable resumption of economic activity on the ground. This is the subject of the third amending finance bill. The Minister of Economy and Finance has just presented the major economic support measures. Those resulting from PLFR 1 and 2 are in depth, to accompany the most affected while encouraging the resumption of activity. This is the case with the solidarity fund, extended and extended under the tourism plan, with almost 5 billion aid already paid, i.e. more than 3.5 million payments to small businesses. The partial activity is also concerned: the funds allocated by the State and UNEDIC – the National Interprofessional Union for Employment in Industry and Commerce – amount to almost EUR 31 billion in this budget. For the most affected sectors, we are introducing an unprecedented measure of exemption from social and employer contributions and contributions, combined with a contribution credit, at a cost of more than €3 billion, which could reach nearly €4 billion if all the amendments to which the Government intends to give a favourable opinion were to be adopted by the National Assembly. For a moment, I shall turn to this unprecedented mechanism which the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister propose to implement. It legitimately raises numerous questions, of which the 422 amendments to article 18 offer an illustration, implying that the Government should make its proposal explicit... No government has ever decided to exempt several sectors of the economy from social security contributions. This is therefore an absolutely new measure, reflecting the Government's willingness to provide strong responses to the unprecedented economic and health crisis experienced by most companies in our country. I have already had the opportunity to present here the general economy of the device, which has several floors. To the attention of legislators – today the Members of Parliament, tomorrow the senators – I stress the need to provide it with a solid legal basis, in the event that the Constitutional Council examines the law. We have specified the list of sectors eligible for these exceptional exemptions in a press release of 10 June, the day of the presentation of PLFR 3 in the Council of Ministers. Many questions have been raised as to how this list will be implemented. I will have the opportunity to respond to this in our debates, but I think it is important to provide some essential elements of a response right now. The scheme, validated by the Council of State, aims to provide special support to the most heavily affected sectors to help them gradually resume their activities. The list of sectors published reflects the announcements made by the President of the Republic on television: exemptions will automatically be granted to the hospitality sector – it has not been banned administratively, but we all know that it has been severely hit by confinement –, catering, cafes, tourism, events, sport, culture and air transport. For PEAs and SMEs in sectors that are economically linked to them – a better designation than that of "sub-sectors" – such as hotel laundry, which have suffered a turnover loss of at least 80%, the PLFR provides for a four-month exemption from employer contributions. In the case of TPEs which have been banned from receiving the public, particularly in the retail sector – such as hairdressers – a three-month exemption is proposed. For these two categories, a credit corresponding to 20% of their payroll during the exemption period may also be used to pay all contributions. Take the example of a hotel that remained active during confinement; he employed a caretaker, a receptionist and a few collaborators, necessary for the service and reception of a minimum of public, even though the majority of the employees were placed in partial activity, which required the payment of social contributions, in addition to employer contributions. This flat-rate contribution credit should be made available to the company in the aftermath of the covid-19 crisis. We didn't want to cancel them. First, they open individual rights to employees, who would have been reduced; Then, their removal would have been a wage increase for those who worked, resulting in inequity towards those placed in partial employment. You have tabled many amendments to extend the list of eligible sectors. The Government has chosen, in accordance with the powers of Parliament, to indicate in the law the main principles, therefore the major sectors, and to refer to the regulatory power the task of specifying the eligible activities, mainly based on the NAF codes – the classification of French activities. This will allow us to apply our system flexibly and to clarify, or even refine, its principles, in order to ensure that companies are treated fairly. For example, in response to an amendment tabled by the MODEM Group, I will have the opportunity to confirm that speaker interpreters will be eligible: since their activity depends on the event sector, there is obviously no reason to exclude them. We will also have the opportunity to discuss the situation of the night world, the sea transport of passengers and cinemas. I am committed to reading the list of NAF codes, a little long and sometimes complicated, to the attention of those who wish to do so...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u72	[[Smile]] Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u73	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group – Comments]] In the night from Thursday to Friday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u74	Yes, in the night from Thursday to Friday! For those to whom such a reading would seem tedious and cover an impermissible accounting reality, I undertake to submit the regulations that we will take under the law to the chair of the Finance Committee, the general rapporteur and their counterparts in the Senate. A consultation will then prolong the discussion, according to the habit that I have taken for three years now, in order to bring them into line with the spirit of the legislator, even if we do not agree on the substance. When the Government invests so much public money to save the economy, it is not a NAF code – if you will pass the phrase. Many of you would like to reduce the loss of turnover criterion to 75, 65, 60 or 50%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u75	Who says better?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u76	However, in order to strictly preserve equal treatment between companies, it is important to maintain an 80 per cent threshold, in line with the recommendations of the Council of State, if the system is to be fully validated by the Constitutional Council. This threshold reflects the dependence on one of the so-called "priority" sectors and justifies the same exemption for the companies concerned as for the sectors on which they depend. It may be that a majority of producers in one sector work with catering and have encountered substantial difficulties during the period, with a loss of turnover exceeding 80%, but others, working more with large distribution, do not need special aid because their turnover has remained close to normal. Aid must then be differentiated: it is not the fact of being a wine-grower or launderer that must be decisive for the granting of aid, but the fact of being dependent on an economic sector which has been stopped; We will help launderers working with hotels and restaurants more than those working with economic sectors spared by the economic crisis. To those sectors that depend on the major priority sectors, which Parliament will list, we have chosen to offer 100% exemption over four months, not a lower percentage. Lowering the threshold by 80% would increase the risk of unjustified differences in treatment and would legally weaken the scheme, at the expense of all the undertakings receiving the aid. For the same reasons, we will deal with the cases of pluriactivity, which have given rise to many amendments, by retaining the main activity. To change these criteria would be to exempt an extremely large number of companies, putting at great risk the financing of social rights and social security, whose deficit this year will reach the sad record of 52 billion euros, according to the current estimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u77	The cow!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u78	Article 18 is not limited to the two stages of exemptions that I have just described: it also includes a safety net for all companies, regardless of their sector and location, which will not automatically be eligible for exemptions. To whatever sector they belong – I insist – all enterprises with less than 50 employees will benefit, at their request, from employer contribution rebates, studied on a case-by-case basis, amounting to 50%. I will instruct the USSRAF – the social security contributions and family allowances collection unions – as soon as the law has been adopted in the Chamber, so that everything is ready for implementation as soon as it is promulgated. This measure will allow companies to reduce their social liabilities very quickly and massively, in support of business resumption. Finally, the fourth and last stage of the exemptions, all companies, regardless of their sector and size, will be able to benefit from exceptionally long spreads, up to 36 months, to pay the contributions and taxes that remain to be paid. Instructions on this point have already been given to the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the USSRAF. The Government also hears requests, made in committee, concerning self-employed persons. We will therefore give an opinion in favour of the amendment tabled by the MODEM Group to allow self-employed workers to benefit from clearance plans, on the proposal of the recovery bodies, and not at their request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u79	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u80	The opinion will also be in favour of the rapporteur-general's amendment in response to the many requests made to strengthen support for agriculture, in particular: the deployment of a safety net for all self-employed workers, including farmers, through an exceptional and partial remission of contribution debts. For companies in the hotels, restaurants, cafes, tourism, events, sport, culture and air transport sectors, we also propose to the municipalities of the municipal block to activate an exceptional rebate of CFE – the property tax of the companies – which will reduce their tax by two thirds and one third of which will be borne by the State, which does not, however, collect this tax. Consignee was given to the Directorate-General for Public Finance not to call the first down payment, which most companies normally pay in June. [[Exclaims]] The dates of deliberation raise questions. A number of amendments tend to shift the 31 July deadline, which would prevent us from proceeding with the adjustment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u81	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u82	How do we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u83	I'm coming! This date, which already gives rise to a substantial postponement from the usual timetable for deliberating local authorities, is imperative, as any further postponement voted by Parliament would undermine the implementation of the scheme in 2020 and would lose its interest to the extent. Community councils will meet to elect their executive; It will be up to the President or the President who will be elected to convene a debate or to reconvene the Council to vote on the budget, which is to be adopted by 31 July. It will probably not be impossible for the councils of community – of agglomeration or communes – and the councils of metropolis to find a date in order to save the local economy; We know well the lives of local elected officials and how they can adapt to day-to-day conditions. I come to my second point. The amending finance bill provides for 4.5 billion in support to local authorities affected by the crisis, which will help them to support the resumption of activity. For municipalities and intercommunalities, we will compensate for the losses of tax and state revenue in 2020 compared to the average of the amounts collected between 2017 and 2019. In total, this could amount to up to 750 million. I salute Mr Cazeneuve, who has helped us a great deal, as part of the mission entrusted to him by the Prime Minister, to draw up these proposals. Departments are also affected by this budget: 2.7 billion advances are foreseen for those who cannot cope with the loss of transfer fees for 2020. This budget also opens up 1 billion additional credits from DSIL – an allocation to support local investment – so that local authorities can help economic actors. This allocation can be considered green or sanitary, as it will provide priority funding for projects that contribute to health resilience, to the renovation of the built and unbuilt public heritage, and more generally to the ecological transition. Appropriations will be made available as early as 2020. The prefects will receive from my services or from those of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities the instruction to unblock them very quickly. We do not forget the overseas communities, which are experiencing the severe crisis, given the particular nature of their revenues. The draft law on amending finance provides for compensation of 60 million for the loss of revenue from the granting of the sea and the special consumption tax on fuels. As we did in the last budget for New Caledonia, we will guarantee French Polynesia a loan of 240 million to pay for partial unemployment, compensate for the loss of social security contributions and help the tourism sector – although these powers are generally vested in the Government of French Polynesia. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM,UDI-I and Active ens]] I would point out that no government, under any republic, had ever compensated for the tax revenue losses of the communities. The last crisis that we have experienced has even resulted in a decrease in allocations to local authorities rather than a compensation of their revenues... In that regard, the Government, which was making an unprecedented effort, had heard national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u84	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u85	Finally, we intervene for the most fragile. This amending finance bill strengthens the capacity of emergency accommodation for more than 200 million people. It also reflects the plan announced by Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa to combat violence against women. It finances exceptional support for precarious students and young people announced by the Prime Minister. He pays scholarships and social assistance for our compatriots who are in difficulty abroad, following the support plan we announced with Jean-Yves Le Drian. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM,UDI-I and Active ens]] In total, our aid plan amounts to more than 460 billion. The impact of the crisis on the deterioration of growth, which is expected to fall by 11%, and the scale of the new measures are reflected in our public finances. There are 222 billion budget deficits, 52 billion social security deficits, 11.4 per cent public deficit and 121 per cent public debt. These figures, far from being trivial, are sad records. The cost of the measures implemented must invite us and invite you to examine their timeliness and effectiveness as closely as possible. However, I have already had the opportunity to say that when the house burns, there are no litres of water. The Minister of Economy and Finance and I are both serious and hopeful as we present this third PLFR to you, pending, I imagine, the submission of other financial texts before the end of the year...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u86	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u87	This third amending finance bill is, I would say, at the crossroads of urgency and economic rebound. It is part of the continuation of the first two drafts of amending finance legislation, extending known and recognised measures, with which we feel we have lived for many months: partial activity, solidarity funds, loans guaranteed by the State, carry-over of social charges – which Article 18 will transform, in certain sectors, into a cancellation, with the help of both the State and UNEDIC, local authorities and certain private actors, who will thus participate in the national effort. It is time to select the aid, to enter into a second, more complex period, during which we will try to target the most affected sectors and to identify the solutions most suited to them. These include tourism, hotels, cafes, catering, aeronautics, automobiles, the press, culture and "tech". This policy will lead to the opening of appropriations, but also, thanks to Article 18, to an exemption from social security contributions, an unprecedented and concrete measure which will directly relieve the cash flow of companies. I insist because this is the heart of this third PLFR. If we talk too soon about relaunching activities that we have not yet re-established by giving companies oxygen, i.e. cash flow, our effort will be in vain. We must respect the sequences of the crisis. The third amending finance bill is the one that needs to re-establish all sectors, including those most affected. The text gives local and regional authorities unprecedented support. In my turn, I welcome the work of our colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve, who was appointed by the Prime Minister, who influenced the choice of certain measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u88	Well done, Mr. Cazeneuve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u89	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The support I have mentioned takes the form of a compensation for the loss of tax revenue, we will return to it, for the communal bloc, of course, for the departments, for the overseas regions and for all the authorities organising mobility, including Île-de-France Mobilitys – we will discuss it again during the discussion of the amendments. This massive and unprecedented support amounts to more than 4.5 billion euros. The text does not forget the most fragile of our fellow citizens. Yes, the crisis creates social inequalities. Yes, it makes those who were already fragile worse. But there is no question of leaving them on the side. After giving them, thanks to the previous PLFR, exceptional aid of 880 million, this time we target young people: young workers, students, apprentices, whom we must help financially. Youth is at stake for a successful recovery, for a successful recovery. We must support, by financing their daily needs, those who are about to enter the labour market. As rapporteur-general, I will attach great importance to the consistency of the text: internal coherence, of course, but also coherence with the two previous PLFRs and probably with those that will follow. Respecting the aftermath of the crisis is a priority. Given the projected social crisis, how can we save jobs in our country? How can we make the Minister of Economy and Finance lie, who announces 800,000 job losses? How can this number be reduced by remaining as consistent as possible? More than 2000 amendments have been tabled. If many are "brownmakers," as they say, or would find their place more in a finance bill, we will nevertheless take the time to debate it, knowing that those who tend to create new tax expenditures fall badly, at a time when we are looking for new cash flow solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] I will not mention all the amendments adopted in committee. Apart from that which concerns Île-de-France Mobilitys, I welcome the proposal by our colleague, Émilie Bonnivard, to bring credit to Atout France. I would like to thank the Minister for Action and Public Accounts for referring to the amendments concerning self-employed agricultural workers in Article 18. I will have the opportunity to discuss this again as the articles are reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u90	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u91	We have met for the third time since the beginning of the health crisis. Safeguard plan, survival plan, emergency plan, restart plan, sectoral plan, recovery plan... What exactly are we talking about? It's not just about semantics; It's the bottom line. As much as I understood the essential role – urgency and survival – of the first two texts, so much I am sceptical about the status of the third and the future fourth recovery plans. What will be in the fourth that we could not have introduced into PLFR 3? Is this third text due to the workload of the administration or to the need to negotiate better with the economic actors and to consult with them? I don't know. In fact, Minister of Economy and Finance, your speech was a revival speech: in short, you have a speech in advance. So here we are in a situation of hesitation and between the two. We have a bit of trouble following the GPS of survival and recovery plans. What do we want to do collectively? It seems to me that, on all these benches, we are looking for the same thing, which is already a lot: we want to boost our economy powerfully by pressing on two accelerator pedals – which is certainly a bit of a sporty ride. The first allows us to increase the rate of recovery faster than its natural course, the second allows us to take advantage of the period to transform our production methods faster. France needs a clearer, more stable vision to create the necessary growth and reassure a population more worried than ever for its future. Was it too early in July to present a comprehensive recovery plan? I don't believe it. I really think that France needs such a clear and comprehensive plan – and not an addition of sectoral plans – as a condition for economic recovery and the return of the famous confidence. [[Laughs and comments]] Mr Minister for Public Action and Accounts, it is true, as you often say, that no government has done what the government to which you belong has done. It is also true that no other government has experienced a recession of 11% of GDP, a public deficit of 11% and possibly an unemployment rate of 11%. Three times eleven are thirty-three, like the age of Christ at his death: I hope that the resurrection of our economy will be at the end of the way, even that we will manage to change the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u92	Do you have the stigmas?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u93	And the forecast could even worsen: the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – forecasts a recession for France of 12.5 per cent of GDP. As in Alice in Wonderland – to vary the references – we pass "on the other side of the mirror", which brings us into a nightmare world, and probably unreal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u94	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u95	In this unprecedented situation, you are trying to draw conclusions from it. Most of us share them, but we consider that you are not going far enough. The real public effort through the three PLFRs is expected to reach around EUR 60 billion, or 2.5 points of GDP. If we add all the guarantees and carry-overs, without affecting the future deficit, it amounts instead to EUR 468 billion. So you invest and take risks. We are in favour of certain provisions of PLFR 3, especially since we have often proposed some of them, such as exemption from charges or compensation to local authorities. I told you – we told you – during the examination of PLFR 2, that you would come there; You've come, so much the better. Apart from these considerations, there are four major absentees in this text: employment of young people, nowhere; the exit of partial unemployment, which is discussed but which is nowhere to be seen; the revival of consumption and investment thanks to the French savings surplus; the transformation of debt into equity. We will propose measures in this direction, which I have no doubt will receive your attention. In order to accelerate the recovery, the State must go through the regions: it is a question of injecting large amounts of equity into companies, by means of allocations enabling them to finance equity investments. We must also mobilise as soon as possible some of the EUR 100 billion – says the Bank of France – of additional savings. We propose the creation of a booklet to guide savings in this direction. On the other hand, if your recovery strategy must certainly include sectoral measures – you have done so so so far, and that is right – the real justice of the peace is turnover. I believe that you should have, not sectorizing the recovery, but basing yourself on the objective data of the loss of turnover, and in a universal way, for all companies. Some lose sales because they were caught in the French recession, because they belong to a particular sector of activity. If we want to draw up complete lists, we end up forgetting some companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I understand that the situation is unprecedented; However, all governments in the world have to deal with it. There is no lesson to be learned in this case, because we are in an exploratory field, that is the least we can say. However, a recovery plan is a confidence plan. But you will not get this one with caution, but with audacity. You have the opportunity to accelerate the changes in our society; you have the opportunity to transform the modes of production; You have a duty to protect young people. Go on! Do it now, but more clearly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u96	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u97	Mr Le Maire, everyone in this House knows your ideological coherence, to which we, for our part, are resolutely opposed. I cannot therefore hide from you my surprise that I have heard you quote, for any soup, only ministers of finance of Ancien régime, without one name, of the 155 who have succeeded each other in this post since the beginning of the republican era in France, found thanks to your eyes, not even that of Jacques Rueff, whose one might have thought that he would have a meaning for an old Gaullist like you. In 1439 Jacques Cœur was certainly minister of Charles VII, but he was so concussionary and multinational that the king himself had him arrested. As for Colbert, you know how it is discussed these days. I also thought that you might want to stir a little bit the embers, Jacques Coeur and Colbert being both on the saddle right now. In the meantime, our disagreement may be focused on one point – because it must be summed up. You say that the problem of the French economy is not demand, but supply; We have exactly the opposite view. We believe that the problem of the French economy is demand; This is because it is not solvent, with more than 5 million officially registered unemployed; It is that the whole sector of the informal economy has plunged into nothing; That's 9 million poor people. If all these people were to come back to thinking about their future and to prepare it, by making the investments that daily life requires of them, the country would restart, which it will not do. How can you say that you do not appreciate the comparison between France and Germany, you who are sensitive to it more than any other, for saying in the Finance Committee that, if the imbalance between French and Germans at the end of economic confinement is too pronounced, the euro area will not resist it? One wonders how she will resist, considering the approach you have yourself. How can you say that the same sums are disbursed on both sides, when the French have put 5 billion and the Germans 730 billion? Is there not a gap there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u98	Compare what's comparable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u99	That's the reality. How can you say that you are facing the crisis positively and strongly, invoking the donkeys of the past to show the state acting, when the French, for a decline of 11 points in the production of the internal wealth, as it is now assessed, will put in front of a sum equivalent to 3 points of investment, 3 points of liquidity injection by the state, that is 4 times less than the hole, even though the US will place about twice as much as the decline in their GDP, and the Germans 3 times more, that is 20% of their GDP for a decline in activity of 6 points? The gap will be considerable. Finally, you give us, as a reason to rejoice and to be happy, the existence, from now on, of debts guaranteed by several European states: the Eurobonds. What a find! These eurobonds are still debt, which will, of course, be contracted first by those who need this liquidity, and which will have to be repaid. It is hoped that interest rates will be lower, on the grounds that borrowed funds will be secured by several States. Interest rates are already very low. The real question is the cancellation of the debt, its perpetuation forever or its cancellation. You know as I do – since you have brewed history up to 1439 – that never in the history of France, or in the history of any other European country, the state has paid off debts representing such a proportion of the wealth produced by the country. Never will this one be reimbursed more than the previous ones! It is you, Bruno Le Maire, who reminded us in this House that debt, as it is, is in any case already perpetual, as long as we never repay it: as soon as a debt bond matures – that is, almost every seven years – it is replaced by new loans. From one loan to another, it is a private tax that we pay to financial and banking services. It wasn't always that way, you know it as well as I do. Moreover, this debt, which you will not receive, will be added to the intervention in favour of the local authorities. You look very satisfied with the situation; Let me tell you that you are the only one. Indeed, we are going to spend 500 million euros where it is missing 5 billion for the year 2020 and 3 billion for the year 2021 – the Association of Mayors of France estimates the needs to 8 billion euros. Local authorities in this country are 70% of public investment! They're the first investor! It is still incredible that, in this country where considerable powers and extravagant fortunes are accumulating, all this money goes directly to the financial sphere, where it is accumulating more and more, and that, in terms of investing in real property, one must rely on local authorities, in other words, on the tax of the French! The French pay themselves by tax almost everything to which they are entitled. As for their great industries, their magnificent productions, they must be watered! And you do it without any compensation – here is the first recital – for neither employment nor the environment. In Italy, too, the Fiat is replaced by the State, but in return, it condemns its leaders to prison sentences and fines if it does not keep its employees or consent to the agreed level of investment! What prevented you from negotiating identically? Why give millions and billions to Renault while 87% of the vehicles that will be purchased in this country will not be produced there? And the President of the Republic to announce on television that one must buy one or another car because he will give such or such bonus! All this is absolutely implausible! Similarly for aeronautics: what is the point of all these billions for Air France if, at the same time, the same company buys aircraft that will be produced in the New World, in Canada and in the United States, for an amount of 4 billion, or more than half of the amount allocated? All this is aberrant! You have subscribed to an idea that is suddenly embarrassed by reality. You thought, until now, that the invisible hand of the market would always be responsible for re-establishing the aplomb accounts. You didn't foresee that the invisible hand of the market was the one holding the handlebar of the bicycle, which only works if you pedal without stopping. When there's a hole in the air, it's over! Everything collapses, everything goes down, and the invisible hand of the market won't fix anything! Only the action of the state, based on collective decision, the power of the public strategist, is likely to re-start the machine, not to revive it and continue as we used to, but to do something else! Recovery has no meaning if it is not, at the same time, the bifurcation of the productive system, of production, of trade and even of the consumption model. It's an opportunity or not! You will not find any other, at other times in history, if we ever find the course of things we have known in the past. Such a plan must give priority to those who matter more than anything: those who produce wealth, especially the younger generation. We cannot simultaneously announce to the 700000 young people entering the labour market at the beginning of September that they will spend the next five years of their lives paying off a debt, and that nothing is planned for them, except learning! Let me tell you that this was not a good idea! While apprenticeship should be encouraged, it alone cannot form the basis for the overall model of vocational training in the country. Just think about it for a moment: learning is only the reproduction of what already exists! It is only through general education, which is provided in alternance at vocational lycées, on the course of a full year of training, that qualifications and skills, as well as the productive apparatus as a whole, can be renewed and people able to operate it, can be seen. It seems to me that, in this area again, we have relied on the invisible hand of the market, believing that it would suffice to make vocational education work. New mistake! The country's major projects should implement youth, who must be called upon to work there, first of all in order to accomplish the first of the tasks: to catch up with the backlog that some young people have accumulated. We could, for example, decide that half of those who enter the labour market will be hired directly by the state, which would be to renew the formula of youth jobs, in another context, and would allow each of them, with a pay at the SMIC, to have five years of visibility, so to organize his life. Thanks to this mechanism, 80 per cent of young people recruited in this way subsequently found employment in CDI. This was, with the reduction of working time, one of the most brilliant contributions of Lionel Jospin's government, which allowed him to render all social accounts in the green at the time they were certified. This is the first of the tasks. The second is to start large projects first, which is preferable to sprinkle. Water, for example: 20% of the water distributed in this country is lost. We need to go back to the pipelines; we have the companies and the qualifications to do so. The same applies to energy generation and nuclear replacement: let me tell you that you will soon be less pleased to depend on a production that requires cold water to cool the plants, when everything warms up, starting with the rivers where the sampling is carried out for this purpose. I am sticking to these two points; Soon you'll have our plan in hand, Minister. I am sorry to be unable to present it in fifteen minutes at this rostrum; It will be published tomorrow. The municipal elections have shown that, in the face of the social mascaret that is about to happen, the French people are no longer adhering to its institutions. It is a serious crisis of the collective representation of the homeland that is expressed, when so few people move to return or not to renew local authorities, yet the closest and best known to people, regardless of the political labels – at this moment I do not mention them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] This crisis is a crisis of confidence in the state – which is not to reassure us – and even in the state and its institutions, because the state in the modern sense is a whole, including the central state and local authorities. This crisis shows that, more than ever, at the bottom, we no longer want, and I observe that with this recovery plan as with the previous ones, we will once again give the impression that at the top, we can no longer. The state laughs at us, while being narrated, not only by the police who do forbidden demonstrations, but above all by Sanofi, a company to which millions and millions are donated, and which, the same year that it receives nearly 2 billion from the state, gives four to its shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u100	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u101	The text we are looking at responds, as has been said, to three major issues: maintaining and complementing aid schemes for sectors whose activity remains largely at a standstill, accompanying sectors which are gradually re-starting, and anticipating even more difficult entry into the labour market for young people in the coming months. Yes, the text includes measures relating to learning, because, before the crisis, the use of learning had increased by 16% – a level never reached. It is therefore necessary to continue in this direction and to revive learning. And you know very well, Mr. President Mélenchon, that a mechanism to encourage the hiring of young people is also under consideration. As usual, you have a lot of certainty. As far as we are concerned, we are in action. We want to act and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u102	Yesterday, the French said thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u103	When you speak of a crisis of confidence in the state, I apologize, but I believe that there is rather a disavowal of the democratic act. Why? Because by repeating that everything is going wrong, that we do nothing, that everything is bad, that nothing is going, necessarily the French don't trust anymore,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u104	We're not gonna lie to them...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u105	...and they manifest it by a disavowal of the democratic act. For our part, therefore, we are acting. Because with this third amending finance bill, it is still 460 billion, or 20% of the national wealth, that will be injected to meet the challenges I have mentioned. This is a commitment assumed by our majority and which will not be accompanied by any tax increase; That is what political courage is. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will obviously vote against your rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u106	I can't say I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u107	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u108	There is one observation, Mr. President Mélenchon, that I could share with you, the one about the abstention rate we experienced on this election Sunday. I am not sure that this is simply a media effect, that, as our colleague said right now, because the media say everything is going wrong...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u109	Not just the media!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u110	...the French and French didn't go to vote. I believe that things go far beyond this reality. There is a real problem of trust and a global challenge to politics. We should collectively pay attention to this issue and try to find solutions, because yesterday's abstention rate indicates that the legitimacy of elected officials could be challenged. For the rest, Mr. President Mélenchon, I do not share much with your vision,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u111	It's because you didn't listen well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u112	...you know that. And there's one thing you should be more careful about, it's learning. It is imperative to give opportunities in this area, not to the 7,000 young people who will enter the labour market, but to the youth as a whole. This is really essential and I believe that learning should not be trivialised, but should be strongly encouraged. As for the recovery measures, as you see them, we do not agree with them, it is obvious. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms. Cendra Motin also applauds]] For these reasons, we will vote against your motion to reject, even if we consider that the text still needs to be worked on and amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u113	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u114	The MODEM and related groups will vote against this motion of rejection. With regard to debt, let us welcome the fact that, in such a difficult period, France has had the capacity to raise funds to finance the massive support granted to employees and businesses in this country. This capacity is due to the confidence of lenders in France. This confidence comes from the country's ability to support its businesses, its social protection system, its ability to cope with the epidemic and to provide some security for its citizens, as well as, of course, the major advances made by the Government and the President of the Republic on the European scene. As far as youth is concerned, I will not go back to what has been said, but we have seen, in the last few months before the crisis, learning take off for the first time in the history of our country. This is obviously a good thing and we are satisfied with the considerable efforts that are being made to ensure that this dynamic is not broken. With regard to the gifts that would be given to shareholders, let us remember that there is no will to oppose the revival of the ecological transition, on the contrary. Indeed, when Air France was rescued, counterparties were requested for domestic flights to be reduced. When it comes to reviving the automotive sector, this has been done by promoting green, electric or hybrid vehicles. We will probably have this debate during the week: there is indeed a path of convergence between growth and the ecological transition. You talked about the invisible hand. On the contrary, it seems to us that it is the very visible hand of the State, which comes massively to support the economy of France, which we see appearing in this text. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u115	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u116	It's amazing how everyone is green today...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u117	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u118	I shall first make a statement. In its June 2020 economic outlook study, the OECD already expects France to experience the second largest recession in the world, whether or not there is a second epidemic wave. The IMF has confirmed these forecasts, which are, to say the least, alarming. We are told that GDP should not return to its pre-crisis level until mid-May 2022, after a fall of more than 10%; that the unemployment rate is likely to exceed 11%; that business investment is expected to fall by 23%; and that the savings rate should be set at the historical level of 22%, which is 100 billion, and which speaks volumes about the level of confidence and serenity of the French. On the basis of this finding, the Socialist and Related Group will therefore support this motion of rejection. Indeed, the budgetary collective presented to us does not seem to us to be up to the stakes, nor does it contain in any way a real stimulus strategy. I believe that we are wasting too much time and that, as has been pointed out by some colleagues, you remain in the middle of the ford when dealing with the urgency. Yet it is time for a real vision of the world after and for a real recovery strategy, with the investment credits that go with, for example in the areas of water or housing renovation, which Mr Mélenchon mentioned. As the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has said, this text is in perfect contrast with the urgency of the situation and the prospects for the future. On the other hand, article 18, which should give rise to important debate, speaks volumes about the clarity of your provisions. How can you be so surprised, given that it is amended by many in your majority and that these are sectoral measures: this automatically provokes debate and everyone wants to add to it. I add that you with chosen turnover as the criterion of eligibility, which creates a huge threshold effect. For these reasons, we will therefore support this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u119	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u120	The Libertés et Territoires Group will not support this motion for rejection, but not because of the arguments put forward by President Mélenchon, because some have been able to convince us. There are indeed a number of measures which should be taken and which are not taken with this text. If we do not support this motion, it is urgent to vote on this text in view of the economic situation of our companies, which are waiting for immediate and massive action. If not, we know what the economic situation in our country will be: companies will report fairly quickly if we are not able to support their business. What we also hope, and even if we do not vote on this rejection motion, is that the amendments that have been tabled in large numbers, both by the majority and by the opposition, will be heard by the Government. In committee, even if the rapporteur-general was in his role, we did not feel that we were really being heard. Each time, we were told, "You will see with the Government. So we will see. I will take only one example, which is important for our group: the Prime Minister, when he presented the plan for restoration, committed himself to taking specific measures for Lourdes, overseas and Corsica. However, Lourdes and Corsica do not appear in this text, the ministers have not mentioned it, the majority have not tabled any amendments, nor the Government. So there are important issues that we want to discuss. This is, of course, the case of Article 18, which must be amended, because otherwise we know that a number of undertakings will not be affected by this system. We will therefore vote against this motion to reject it beforehand, but we look forward to the debate on the substance of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u121	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u122	What we hear from the speech of our colleagues of the majority, and which has been a recurrent element of language for two and a half years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u123	Three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u124	... it is that there would be on one side those who act tirelessly, and on the other hand those who comment. The problem is that acting without reinvention amounts to producing exactly the same recipes, which have only transformed an epidemic crisis into a health, social and environmental crisis of historical magnitude. Putting billions on the table and benefiting from the fact that there is still a state in this country – despite your efforts to dismantle it – without recording any of the lessons of the two and a half years that have just passed, amounts to preparing for the disasters to come – I say this particularly to our colleague Pupponi, who has just rightly intervened on the need to act. When you decide to give billions to companies or to grant loans without any social or ecological criteria, not even that of ensuring that the work will continue to be done in France, you can see that you put 100 euros in a machine that you yourself have denounced – at least Emmanuel Macron if I understand correctly – and that is that of relocations. On the other hand, let's stop with this fable that you don't want taxes to rise. Taxes, including indirect taxes, have increased for all French people, except for the richest. So, when you don't touch the taxes of the richest, what you don't really want to touch is the sharing of wealth and the mobilization of the income of capital, unlike that of labour. That is what is really expensive for our society when it comes to financing the recovery, especially ecological investment. You continue in exactly the same way as you did in the past. In other words, the same recipes will produce the same crises, and that is what we support your PLFR3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u126	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u127	With this PLFR3, we are at a crossroads: that is what the rapporteur-general said earlier. It effectively improves and complements the mechanisms put in place to support our businesses and protect employees. It also introduces a first set of measures aimed at local and regional authorities to support them and to enable them, as we know, to participate in the plan to revive our economy, particularly in the most affected sectors: I am thinking of tourism and culture. [[Exclaims and applause on the banks of the Agir ens group, as well as on certain benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] By analogy with what the Chairman of the Finance Committee was able to say earlier when he spoke of Alice in Wonderland, the group Action Together will not be the queen of hearts, and will therefore refuse to cut off the head of this PLFR3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u128	Then you cut your head off from me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on certain benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will not therefore vote on this motion for rejection, because we believe that with the amendments that will be supported in the House we will have a text that will meet the majority of the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u130	Long live the queen of hearts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u131	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u132	[[Smile]] Mr Le Maire, or perhaps I should say Mr Prime Minister because it is a real general policy speech that you made earlier, it is true that you have strong arguments to say that the state is committed, is strongly mobilised: 460 billion additional public expenditure and 121 per cent debt is huge! There would be a cascade of social plans in our country and no state commitment, we would scream. But there is, indeed, a lot of public money on the table to deal with this cascade of social plans, which will cause, you announce yourself, 800,000 dismissals by the end of the year. It is also the entire under-25 generation that will arrive on the futureless labour market. It is therefore a real problem, and that is the whole question that President Mélenchon raises in his motion for a preliminary rejection, and to which we adhere. How is it that so much public money can be invested in the economy in times of crisis without any consideration being given to major groups and multinationals? They should have an obligation to relocate their activities and create jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u133	Exactly! How is it that so much public money is being spent in the country without any hiring plan in certain essential public services, such as health services, schools, universities and research, or communities? These are sources of employment, which could have compensated for inevitable job losses. Finally, when 460 billion public dollars are committed in the country, there should be no social plans, neither the massive unemployment that is expected, nor a level of poverty as France has never known – in a rich country like ours, the number of people living below the poverty line will certainly reach 12 or 13 million. Capital is not used. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u134	The opposite would have surprised us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u135	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u136	I very much share the concerns of the colleagues who have just spoken. I too consider that there is a great deal missing in this PLFR, particularly in terms of ecological transition. We are much more ambitious in this regard, even though the President of the Republic has just made very encouraging announcements. We would also have liked to see a larger budget allocated to local authorities from this PLFR. Above all, it has just been said, there is a lack of a brick in tax justice. Forgive me for saying again, some contributors could bring tax revenues as part of the major redistribution plans that we are implementing. However, unlike those colleagues, I still have some hope. I would prefer the debate to take place and to discuss the amendments that we have tabled. That is why the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u137	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u138	Before we begin the general discussion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, the Assembly, after the introductory article, will give priority to articles 2 and 4, as well as amendments to the additional article before and after those articles; after Article 10, Articles 17 and 18, as well as amendments to the additional Article before and after those Articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u139	In the general debate, Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u140	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, we are indeed proud, for three reasons. [["Yes!" on several benches of the LaREM group]] First, we are proud of the economic results we had achieved before the covid-19 crisis: our growth rate was among the highest in Europe; the unemployment rate had fallen considerably; France had become the first country to receive foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u141	You had to dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u142	We are proud of our achievements in the social field: we had raised social minima, reduced unemployment – this is one of the most prominent social advances – and restored purchasing power to our fellow citizens. We are proud to have embarked on the first steps of an ecological transition, thanks to the many measures that have been mentioned. Secondly, we are proud of what we did during the health crisis: we have put in place state-guaranteed loans, partial unemployment, the solidarity fund. All the business leaders, all the traders, all the artisans and all the winemakers we meet on the ground tell us that we have acted efficiently and quickly, and that they are grateful to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u143	We don't meet the same people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u144	No doubt, Mrs. Dalloz... In any case, many economic actors recognize that the state has been at the rendezvous during the crisis. Thirdly, we are proud of this third amending finance bill, which extends the previous PLFRs. In the economic field, we are deepening certain measures and extending certain measures, in order to continue to help companies that need them. We believe that measures to support cash flow are essential, particularly in sectors such as hotels, cafes and restaurants, events and culture. We do need specific measures in favour of the most difficult sectors of activity which must at the same time start their ecological transition. That is the spirit of the measures to be taken in the automotive and aeronautics sectors. We need to encourage the employment of young people, especially apprentices, thanks to the arrangements that we are going to adopt in the framework of this PLFR. In the social field, we will also extend and amplify the measures we have already taken. In PLFR 2, you remember, we had adopted exceptional solidarity aid. In this case, we are going to put in place mechanisms to help the most vulnerable, families in difficulty and young people. An exceptional bonus, in particular, will be awarded to more than 800,000 young people under 25 years of age. We will also help local and regional authorities affected by the crisis, whether departments or municipalities. To this end, we will introduce entirely innovative arrangements. I mention one: the local authorities will be able to grant a rebate of CFE, the property tax of the enterprises, to the amount of two thirds, the State intervening to compensate half of the loss of revenue induced. Such a device is new! These measures are expected, necessary and useful. The La République group will support them. I come to a fundamental point: we must restore confidence to the economic players. Several major authors were mentioned earlier. For my part, I will mention the law of opportunities set out by Jean-Baptiste Say. What do we need to do again? Demand or supply? I believe that supply plays a key role in recovery, as it creates income, which allows economic actors to consume and thereby fuel domestic demand. These revenues also allow savings, which finance investment as the second component of domestic demand. Therefore, it is by supporting supply that we will be able to develop the conditions for a resumption of demand, in particular domestic demand. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Because it is in line with the logic and consistency of the previous two PLFRs, the Republic on the move Group will support this third PLFR and call for it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u145	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u146	The economic deflagration caused by the health crisis that we are going through forces you to introduce a third amending finance bill, and we understand that a fourth will be tabled in September. This succession of reforms to the original finance law is unique in our fiscal history. It demonstrates the extreme fragility of the Government's attempt to respond to this unprecedented situation, which has implications for the economies of the world. Minister, all our indicators are in the red, and the macroeconomic shock we are facing is obviously more serious than expected. You had to degrade your forecasts, PLFR after PLFR. The differences are considerable: the recession is rising from 8 per cent to 11 per cent of GDP and the deficit forecast is increasing from 9 per cent to 11.4 per cent of GDP, not to mention the debt that is literally exploding, to reach 121 per cent of GDP. Finally, you are breaking a new record, since public expenditure is now set at 66.3% of GDP. The optimism that you initially displayed during the examination of the two previous PLFRs was therefore in complete contradiction with reality, which we have repeatedly denounced for weeks. The observation is implacable: we are more affected by the recession than our neighbours, and the recovery is slower at home than elsewhere. The outlook is disturbing: it suggests the risk of cascading bankruptcies and a return to mass unemployment. At a time when we are starting our discussions, economic recovery is therefore an imperative, and we must quickly take strong steps to accelerate recovery and activity in our country. To this end, massive support for employment must remain the top priority in the coming months, in order to escape the disaster. Minister, this third amending finance bill contains good measures to support the economy, but we regret the timidity with which you are contemplating recovery. Unfortunately, the situation shows us how much our country has approached the crisis in a situation of fragility. Unlike its neighbours, France has been unable, under your government, to reduce public spending and has allowed its debt to slip over the last two years, while growth has been on track. Even before the crisis, we collected achievements of which we could hardly be proud: European champions of public spending and deficits; have the European record in the matter of compulsory levies. That is the record of your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u147	What about Sarkozy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u148	As a result, we are now lacking room for budgetary manoeuvre, at a time when support for our businesses must be massive. You accumulated a lot of delay at the ignition and delayed making the necessary decisions, while we were in the middle of the wave. You're on the trail of Republican proposals. You start by refusing them as a matter of principle, before you take them back to your account, but too late. Cancellations of charges, CFE exemptions and reductions in charges for hiring young people are all proposals from the LR group that you eventually took up after criticising and rejecting them. Since last March, we have been calling for the cancellation of charges. Most recently, you have taken this proposal into consideration, but the cancellations provided for in this PLFR 3 are still insufficient to relieve the most severely affected SME-EMPs. The total amount of the social security exemption you plan to pay is only €3 billion, while the amount of the application for carryover exceeds €30 billion. The report is from one to ten! The threshold effect will have devastating consequences for entire parts of the economy. If I were to take a picture, it would be that of shadow and light: when your revenue loss reaches 80%, you will benefit from exemption from charges; If it is 79%, you will be forced to pay your expenses in full. We need much more massive cancellations of expenses for all French SMEs and IMPs, in proportion to the loss of turnover they have suffered. It is therefore a different logic that we propose to you, in favour of the heavily affected sectors such as hotels and restaurants, but also of wholesale actors eligible upstream, which are not yet sufficiently taken into account in several arrangements. As for the automotive and aeronautics sectors, they are experiencing a real economic crisis, and we risk seeing the collapse of French industrial flowers. Your support measures, Minister, are essential, but a real recovery plan is now needed to get our country back. This is the condition for the rescue of our businesses and our jobs. This crisis sends you and sends us a powerful warning signal. All the lessons will have to be learned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Dalloz...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u150	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You take this responsibility before the French. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u151	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u152	With this amending finance bill, we are consolidating the anti-failure and anti-licensing shield that we built in the previous two PLFRs and we are arming companies to deal with the crisis. At the crossroads of recovery and recovery, we intervene in a powerful but focused way to support the sectors most severely affected by the crisis – the automobile, aeronautics, tourism, the press, new technologies – by supporting them today while at the same time preparing the industrial transition that the President of the Republic has called for for tomorrow. The French know this and strongly support these measures. Because local authorities will be at the heart of the recovery, we give them real means of action: I am of course thinking of the mechanism of compensation for the communal bloc and the advances for the departments, but also of the billion euros which should be devoted to support for the investment of the local authorities. We welcome the exceptional measures aimed at safeguarding employment and preserving France's entrepreneurial heritage. This text provides for a plan to clear debts and exempt social contributions and contributions of an unrivalled scale. This plan, which can be spread for 36 months, will allow the effects of the crisis on the cash flow of companies to be smoothed over time in order to enable them to maintain employment. For the companies and businesses most affected by the health crisis, we go even further: the social security contributions whose postponement was decided in the spring will finally be cancelled for the months of February to June 2020, and will be accompanied by aid for the payment of all contributions and contributions due to the USSRAF for the year 2020. Self-employed workers, authors and lecturers will also benefit from exemptions or reductions in contributions. Never in the history of the country had we decided to cancel contributions for entire sectors. Today, however, this appears to be an absolute necessity, because a company that disappears is a fabric of relationships, know-how and skills that is lost forever. A business that closes is the soul of a village that is extinct. Our businesses, businesses and artisans are a national treasure that it is our responsibility to protect whatever it costs. The debate in committee has enriched this text. Amendments from the MODEM Group provide for the integration of the self-employed within the scope of the social debt clearance plans provided for in Article 18, the strengthening of the reverse-deficit deferral scheme or the possibility for departments to repay transfer advances for a longer period of time. Other advances made by the MODEM group in committee were adopted, in particular on solidarity and the financing of associations, or leaving companies until the end of 2020 to pay the so-called Macron premium to their employees. We will make other proposals during the public debate, first of all for the preservation of the capital of companies, which we believe is essential for developing their investment capacity. When an entrepreneur feels that he or she is overindebted, he or she is likely to give up at the very moment when his or her contribution to the recovery is the most decisive. On the occasion of the previous PLFR, we have adopted provisions facilitating the abandonment of rent claims. We now need to move on to the next stage and make proposals in this area. Because youth is the true wealth of nations, we will propose that the learning recovery plan include all students and not just until the professional license. This has just been recalled in this forum: learning is the best weapon against youth unemployment. The reform that we adopted in this Parliament has made it a real path of excellence. Now we have to go further. It is also necessary to create the conditions for a better sharing of the wealth of companies and we will propose a measure to facilitate employee ownership. Finally, we intend to take the view of green and ecological recovery. The massive intervention of the State to preserve our productive fabric cannot ignore the ecological and social crises. We cannot resolve to oppose growth and sustainable development. That is why we will defend a balanced position to combine recovery and ecological transition by conditioning some of the state aid to the larger companies with respect to certain environmental objectives. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] With this text, the Government presents us with a real economic defence plan that responds both to the absolute need to preserve the employment and purchasing power of employees and self-employed, and to the need to arm our companies and associations in the face of the major crisis ahead of them. That is why Members of the Democratic and Related Group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u153	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u154	We will therefore be meeting this whole week to consider the third draft law on amending finance since the beginning of the health crisis, but we have not yet been able to examine a correction PLFSS, while the consequences of the health crisis weigh heavily on social accounts, which we estimate the deficit to be 52 billion euros. Examining a third collective budget before July is probably a first and a new proof that the emergency measures contained in the first two were insufficient. While it is difficult to blame the executive for its lack of initial anticipation because of the unprecedented nature of this crisis, it must be noted that this third PLFR, as transmitted to us, seems incomplete. Responding to the economic and social crisis resulting from the health crisis requires both a comprehensive vision and a clear timetable for implementation. Sector support plans, however numerous, will never allow our economy to quickly meet and adapt to the challenges of tomorrow if they are not part of a comprehensive recovery plan. Today, the French and economic actors do not see where you want to go, Minister. This overall recovery plan, you pushed it back to September at best, which will probably require a PLFR 4, followed by the PLF for 2021, before a PLFR 5 end of management. Admit that a recovery plan presented before the summer and declined in this PLFR 3 would have had its full relevance. Most of our neighbours, like Germany, have presented their recovery plan, with well-defined medium- and long-term priorities. Your delay is dangerous to our economic fabric and even to our social cohesion, while the forecasts of several bodies such as the IMF, the OECD or the Bank of France show that the recession should be much stronger in France than in most other countries of the world. The consequences of this crisis are concrete and disturbing. As my speaking time is limited, I shall confine myself to the question of employment. The massive economic shock of the first half of 2020 will have a very strong negative impact on the level of employment, despite a generous and welcome partial activity scheme. The Bank of France estimates that the level of employment will be almost one million jobs lower in the fourth quarter of the year, compared to the end of 2019. This is equivalent to six years of job creation wiped out by the crisis. There is therefore an urgent need to respond to the plight of those who fear that they will not be able to find a job or fear that they will lose it, to the plight of the 700000 young people who will reach the labour market in a few weeks' time, and to the anguish of those who are already slipping into precariousness. The situation in our country requires the adoption of a massive recovery plan. It is precisely the ambition of the recovery plan that we Socialists presented two weeks ago, "for an economic, social and ecological rebound". An opposition party or parliamentary group is opposed, it is its role, but must also be a force of proposal. This plan, consisting of 45 proposals, is comprehensive, coherent and funded. These measures include, for example, the climate premium, proposal 27, which combines grant and repayable advance, allowing donors and owners to launch a major energy renovation plan. This premium meets a threefold objective: first, social, since it will allow a significant reduction of the energy bill of around 500 euros per year, which is not nothing; then, as it will lead to a reduction in CO emissions; Finally, since it will participate in the support of the construction sector which needs it very much. This is one of the flagship measures of the citizens' climate convention, which aims to make global energy renewal compulsory by 2040. We can go in this direction with this PLFR, without delay, if we adopt Amendment No 1143. Among our forty-five proposals is also Luxfer's nationalization. I will come back to that during the debate, Mr.Minister, as this issue is vital to our health independence in the years to come. We were very numerous, last Thursday, in front of Luxfer's grids, to demand the reopening of this factory and above all to avoid the loss of the know-how of its employees. I know that your services are following this case, that some of them are knocking on the door – but that's it: the English are still blocking and the French state is letting it go. You can proceed with a temporary nationalization of the site, the only solution to unlock the folder quickly. For lack of time to present to you the forty-five measures of our plan, I will conclude. Minister, as we approach a dramatic return to the employment front, let us not wait until September to support local authorities, TPEs, SMEs, small businesses and integration enterprises. Quickly give carte blanche and credits to the only tandem that worked during the health crisis: prefects of departments and mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u155	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u156	The Action Together Group welcomes the pragmatic and proactive economic policy pursued by the Government during the crisis, in an unprecedented context and of total uncertainty. He would also like to highlight the work that has been done since the beginning of this crisis in association with Parliament. We can only hope that this work of co-construction of the budget texts between the Government and Parliament will intensify during the debates that we are going to have in public this week. We, the parliamentarians of the majority, as well as those of the opposition, offer the Government the tremendous opportunity to fill the gaps inherent in such important arrangements, thanks to the information that has been raised from the ground every week. This PLFR 3 is a quality design that will maintain and intensify state aid to the most affected sectors. It will also make it possible to provide important support to local and regional authorities and to continue to support our most fragile compatriots. This budget text must bear the seeds of the model we want for future generations. If our group welcomes the support mechanisms established by this text, it will defend several amendments to strengthen its strike force. This could include extending tax credits to the phonographic industry and to live performances, both severely affected by the crisis. This could also include the extension of time limits for local legislative bodies to provide support to local authorities. Beyond the massive and necessary support plans for the economy, the crisis we are going through reminds us of the need to put the local back at the centre of our new model. Our group will defend strong amendments to make this a reality. I am thinking in particular of PDO-labelled milks and cheeses which, despite the promise of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, have not received a specific support plan that would enable them to emerge from a situation of extreme concern. We must send a strong signal to artisans, independents and small entrepreneurs who, every day, can lose the work of a life if their income does not cover their expenses. We will table an amendment so that those professionals who, for medical reasons, are exposed to increased risks in case of infection with covid-19 can use a replacement with the help of the state. It is a measure of social justice for a population that has suffered a severe crisis and must return to work, sometimes at the risk of its health. Rethinking the local is also about encouraging investment in our TPEs and SMEs. In the same way that short consumption channels, from producer to consumer, must be encouraged, we must facilitate short investment channels, because our SMEs and TPEs need them to survive, grow and sustain our employment pools. Encouraging capital investment in our small businesses while rewarding work is the ambition we want to have. We will therefore propose the extension of the so-called "Macron" premium until the end of the year, the abolition of the flat-rate tax on CDDUs, fixed-term contracts of use, or the facilitation of the donation of leave days to support healthcare professionals. Let us free energies, encourage work and solidarity, in order to overcome this crisis of an unprecedented scale! Rethinking the local finally means transforming our productive apparatus so that our industry, our agriculture, our craftsmanship continue to be a guarantee of excellence while responding to environmental challenges. I am thinking in particular of the incentive to carry out energy-efficient work to support the building and public works sector. It is this voluntary and non-integralist ecology, creating jobs and wealth that we want to defend. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to rethink our report at the local level, France also has great international playing cards. How not to think about the quality of our diplomatic networks, a unique instrument for the development of French influence in the world. In times of crisis, we need flexibility and agility to follow the budget lines devoted to it. In this connection, we will table an amendment aimed at identifying the main redeployments of appropriations made to support the Alliances françaises or the French institutes. It is our responsibility, as parliamentarians, to inquire about the proper use of public funds, even in these exceptional times. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] It's a bad time. the national representation is at the rendezvous and our group will bring its votes to the third PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u157	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u158	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u159	There is now little doubt that our country will be one of the worst recessions in 2020. While world GDP is expected to fall by 4.9 per cent according to the latest IMF figures, in France, due to the virulence of the epidemic and the choice of harsh containment, the recession would be 12.5 per cent. On 14 May, the President of the Republic announced with solemnity 500 billion euros to save our economy but this impressive amount hides actual spending of 58 billion euros. Guaranteeed loans amounting to $300 billion have also been pledged, which should in fact not exceed $100 billion. This is an important effort, but the scale is not the same, especially when compared to the plans of our European neighbours. This third draft amending budget provides first of all for strengthening the levers intended to respond to the urgency. I am thinking of the solidarity fund, which has an additional EUR 1.2 billion, or of the partial unemployment scheme, which has an extension of EUR 5 billion. In fact, we said that the envelopes provided for in the last PLFR were insufficient. The massive use of partial unemployment has helped to avoid waves of redundancies. It has, moreover, given rise to significant abuses. We therefore reiterate our request to strengthen the means of control. At the same time, in view of the sums committed, it is important to accompany companies whose activity would not return quickly to normal. In this respect, we support the scenario of a transition to a long-term partial activity, conditional on the maintenance of employment. Indeed the weeks and months that come are those of all the dangers, with the risk of a multiplication of failures. Beyond the urgency, the PLFR also reflects the desire to concentrate resources on the most affected sectors: automotive, aeronautics, tourism, culture, arts and entertainment in particular. The exceptional contribution exemption measures go in the right direction, but there are still holes in the racket, as our discussions in committee have shown. Why not simplify the exemption mechanism and open it to all companies that are experiencing a significant drop in their turnover? With regard to the tourism sector, we know its weight in our economy, especially in certain regions, where this sector is the foundation of an ecosystem – I am thinking in particular of Corsica, for which the Government had announced specific measures that do not appear in this PLFR. We will therefore pay particular attention to the monitoring of sectoral road maps, which must involve the communities concerned, and to the consideration of all supply chains through support schemes. With regard to the territorial part of this PLFR, our opinion on the EUR 4.5 billion plan is mixed. We take note of the compensation of the tax and state revenue losses of the municipal block and the additional billion euros in support of local public investment, but how can we be satisfied with what you propose to the departments? They would benefit only from the repayable advances mechanism, while they will not only suffer a reduction in their resources, in particular DMTOs, transfer fees for consideration, but also an increase in their solidarity expenditure, in particular under the RSA. This famous "scissor effect" is only marginally softened by a few amendments adopted in committee. Finally, what about the lack of financial compensation measures for the regions? The latter, however, expect to lose between 1.5 and 1.8 billion revenue. Will an aid plan be conditional on a postponement of the elections? Beyond the provisions of this third draft amending budget, some of which we agree with, I want to stress two shortcomings, and first of all the weakness of social measures. While the current crisis, even more than the one in 2008, has contributed to widening social inequalities, there is virtually no measure for the most precarious, the most fragile. Another absence is that of a global stimulus policy. By comparison, our German neighbours have adopted a major plan of EUR 130 billion, including an economic modernisation component. It is important to act quickly to give visibility and opportunities to our businesses. That is why we call for the rapid presentation of a comprehensive recovery plan that reconciles economic ambition with ecological imperative. The President of the Republic announced this morning that measures would be taken in response to the report of the Citizens' Convention. They have no place in this text and we will have to wait until the autumn to know them, but, gentlemen, you may be able to shed some light on the directions of the additional 15 billion over two years announced for ecological transformation. We have been telling you since the first amending budget, because of the urgency of climate and the environment, we need to get out of the speeches. Time is no longer at work, with bold political choices, it is at work. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For all these reasons, our group will abstain or vote against, according to the results of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u160	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u161	The examination of this third PLFR falls to a point after municipal elections which have seen abstention reach such a level that it becomes a major political and historical fact. His analysis shows us that our universal suffrage is increasingly transformed into censorial suffrage, effectively excluding the popular classes. True, the waste caused by the continuation of the first round has stripped these elections of all meaning in the eyes of many, but this has only exacerbated the personalization of power linked to the institutions of the Fifth Republic, which absolutely gangens all parts of our democracy. But I see other major causes of this democratic disaster, and the bill we are debating today gives us many illustrations of it. First of all because once again this PLFR is that of unfulfilled promises and even dishonest lies. I no longer count the times I saw the government announce something on television before I saw the opposite in the corresponding bill. You are certainly not the first to achieve this kind of performance, but you take it there to an unprecedented level. I wonder if there are any counter-examples to this fact, as it seems to be the rule. The French may not have the time to deconstruct each PLFR to untrace each of your lies, but they see that your words are not followed by deeds and that your beautiful words do not change their realities. They may not be going through this third PLFR to see that instead of the 500 billion announced to deal with the crisis, only 50 billion fresh money has been put on the table, ten times less than expected, but I can assure you that they are measuring it in view of their bank account and in their fear of a future which I fear will see the loss of their jobs. When you legalize a drop in the partial unemployment benefit, after having assured that it would not be the case and after making great speeches about the welfare state, they know that you are betraying them. When you propose plans to support local authorities or certain specific sectors, which prove to be insufficiently credited or not at all, as is the case with the departments, they know that you are betraying them. When you announce in the midst of a food crisis, solemnly and precisely, that the French will be able to pay up to 95 euros for shopping in securities-restaurants in supermarkets without publishing the decree that would make it possible, they know that you betray them. They know this all the more because after years of fine speech those who were in misery are always so and many others join them every day. Censorship, censorship, too, favours the richest at the expense of those who produce wealth, especially the poorest. Not content with imposing unfair taxation, you reduce public spending and reduce the number of solidarity mechanisms, the state's revenues being burdened by the gifts you give to the richest, all in the name of a run-off, which in reality only makes money run for the same people. For the third time, you refuse to tax the holding of capital, even on a temporary basis. In this regard, the political marketing exercise that followed the civic convention on the climate let go of a moment of truth, when Emmanuel Macron said that the only measure he would not retain among all those proposed at the end of the convention is the proposal to tax dividends to the tune of 4%. That is why we will submit to you in the form of numerous amendments the measures proposed by the ATTAC association in this respect. The same gap separates Emmanuel Macron's "go ahead" this morning with regard to the measures proposed by the citizens chosen by lot to participate in the citizens' convention and its actual acts, i.e. the refusal to mobilise capital to ensure the ecological transition or the refusal to condition his hundreds of billions of gifts to companies at the least social or ecological criterion. They will not even have the obligation to maintain employment and production in France – while Emmanuel Macron was still recently boasting of the short circuits and the need to relocate – or not to take advantage of the covid to undertake planned long-debt restructuring plans, as Nokia is preparing to do for layoffs and job cuts planned since 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is no trace of a strategic state in this PLFR and no more ecological planning than there has been any health planning. In essence, your PLFR only guarantees finance that it will survive the crisis. From this point of view, it is a return to the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u162	I approve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u163	All right, Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u164	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u165	We are dealing with the third amending finance bill of the year. It reflects the need for national representation to invest in organizing the support of the state and public authorities during this extraordinary crisis. We Members have to answer for our citizens and our economic actors. This amending finance bill recognizes the use of debt to finance a number of expenditures and maintain activity in our country. We have all supported the vital measures of partial unemployment aid, the solidarity fund or the cancellation of the tax and social charges for the most severely affected TPEs, although some on these banks criticize the widening of the deficit by more than 11 points in 2020. On this point, I refer each to his responsibilities for the debt accumulated from 2002 to 2012. Yes, we must provide financial resources and support our economy and our fellow citizens. We believe that the support for community investment provided for in this text is crucial. Ensuring the means of economic action is the basis of local democracy. It is one of the virtues of this PLFR to foresee compensations and a start to relaunch the investment via the DSIL. The PLFR also continues to make efforts in favour of the strategic sectors most affected by the crisis, be they industrial or tourism. There too a lot is being done, but of course it will be necessary to monitor and evaluate, but also to avoid that our abandoned compulsory removals are perpetual waterways. So far, I have referred to what made us join the Government and the majority on this text. I must not, however, silence our reservations, which remain substantial on several points. One cannot, in the aftermath of an election that has brought so high an environmental emergency, remain so timid about the cross-conditionality of the aid granted to the automobile or the air sector. We have put proposals on the table: we must seize the opportunity to green our political and financial action. The course must be clearly set by the State and not loosely induced. We also call for an increase in the action of local authorities, the driving force behind public investment in the ecological transition – whether in infrastructure, mobility or thermal renewal. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is proposing to do more and better, and I hope that our discussions will convince you of this direction. As of this bill, we are proposing to increase the ecological transition by $1 billion to reach $15 billion by the end of the five-year period. This measure was included in the fifteen founding proposals of our parliamentary group, and we note that the President of the Republic has just announced such an amount; Unfortunately, it will not only concern local authorities, as we called for. In any case, the number is on the table, and we will certainly be partners in this effort. On the other hand, 2020 will be a black year for young people, if we do not exceptionally extend many rights to them. Our group is asking to be heard from this PLFR, in particular thanks to the amendments it will make on the youth guarantee. Much stronger structural measures will need to be developed urgently to support young people, especially when they are in a precarious situation. Finally, with regard to debt, one cannot simply commit the State at record levels, without intervening on disproportionate fiscal optimisation. There are still far too many possibilities to escape tax for some large companies, but also for sectors that have benefited mechanically from the crisis, such as finance and more specifically insurance. One cannot let the most affluent taxation go: it is an issue of tax justice. Our amendments respond precisely to the need for fairness, without compromising competitiveness. They aim to reduce the niches that benefit very large groups – not SMEs – and that distort by increasing unfair competition to the detriment of companies that create jobs in France. Some of the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention should also be taken up in this regard. We could safely achieve the objective of re-establishing the taxation of large companies, without going through an additional tax – I say so, and I will re-direct it in the coming months. [[Mr. Jean-Lois Bricout applauds]] Also, you will understand that the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is in favour of the measures of this amending finance bill for 2020; Nevertheless, it strongly hopes to enrich it with massive ecological transition measures, along the lines of today's presidential announcements, as well as revenue measures, so that everyone can contribute to the national effort commensurate with their capacities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u166	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u167	We are considering a draft amending finance bill for the third time of the year;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u168	And not the last one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u169	...the first two had occurred during confinement, and the latter intervened at its end. We need it to preserve an economic fabric and jobs damaged by the crisis. This text, which is much more advanced than the first two, is almost a new PLF, as its impact is significant. Our public finances and room for manoeuvre are even worse than before the 2008 crisis. Recognize that efforts have been made to preserve businesses and support communities: immediate repayment of carryback debt stocks, or "carry back", an automatic two-thirds reduction in property taxes for businesses in the particularly affected sectors – tourism, hospitality, catering, sport, culture and events. However, we must point out a lack: unfortunately, companies which have had to close administratively for two months are not entitled to this aid – I am thinking in particular of the exemption from the residence tax for all those liable in 2020, or the exemption from employers' contributions and social contributions from TPEs and SMEs operating in particularly affected sectors: tourism, hotels, catering, sport and culture. It is essential to support these companies, as it is essential to support all those who have been closed for two months and have received much less aid. We must also think of all the subcontractors, in particular the textile sector, which was used to make masks – proof that France has a strong and indispensable sector. Just like hotels, restaurants and campsites, the textile industry is seriously affected – think of companies like Garnier-Thiebaut or Le Jacquard français. We must grant it aid similar to that for tourism, hotels and restaurants. We note with satisfaction that credit expenditure is increasing by EUR 10.2 billion, mainly for the solidarity fund for businesses and for the financing of partial activity – excellent provision, it must be acknowledged. However, these support measures are too restrictive, as they exclude some companies – such as those that have suffered from administrative closures – and some communities. I will refer in particular to thermal cities, a large part of which comes from casino revenues. You've thought about it, and I'm glad; However, the planned payment for them will not occur until 2021, which will considerably affect their budget. Several of our amendments aim to make these payments by the end of 2020, why not in the form of a repayable advance. We will also propose a free scheme whereby companies can turn their state-guaranteed loans into quasi-equity – a recent study shows that 73% of them would be in favour. Such a measure, the cost of which would be zero for public finances, would make companies stronger and enable those who wish to do so to invest and continue their development. Finally, we will propose that a premium be paid to home helpers, to thank them for their commitment; It will be funded through savings from temporary tax measures related to deductions and tax credits. So it is not enough to spill billions, yet a global strategy is needed! What is at stake right now is nothing less than our potential for economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u170	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u171	The elections are not terrible in Val-de-Marne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u172	Let's start with what goes in the right direction: small businesses and communities needed massive help, otherwise they would have fallen into chaos. For our communes, you are taking a step of 780 million, but you are still far from compensating for any loss of revenue they have suffered. Let us also mention the 3 billion exemptions for small businesses; This will reassure them, even if they still have to be accompanied: their operating losses are enormous, and there are still many charges – including insurance contributions. Let's recognize it, these are really not on the date! Not only do they have more than 20 billion capitalization reserves, they also practice tax optimisation. Be aware, Minister, that the Axa Group is investing its life insurance through a Jersey-based fund; I'd like you to deal with this case! The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is pleased with the adoption in committee of the amendments by Mr Gabriel Serville, which will strengthen the economic aid arrangements for Guyana and Mayotte, two regions in total emergency, where the pandemic is exploding. We are waiting for these amendments to be confirmed at the meeting. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] That is for the positive points. For the rest, we are very worried. Your strategy, which is based on an unprecedented increase in government spending – which we may welcome – is paradoxically reflected in a significant increase in unemployment and poverty. Indeed, you absolutely do not change economic software! This Sunday, however, you saw that the French were waiting for a real change of course: they want more social justice, more ecology and more solidarity. Nevertheless, you continue to distribute tens of billions of euros without demanding anything from multinationals in return, without asking them to put their hand in the pocket. The State will spend some €460 billion in loans, grants and cancellations of contributions, without setting any targets for job creation, relocation of activities or investments in the ecological transition, and without developing long-awaited public services in health, schools and transport. More than 8 billion are disbursed to support the automotive sector, but immediately, Renault announces a plan of 4600 job losses and plant closures! In aeronautics, the envelope is huge, 15 billion; But without delay, the management of Derichebourg imposes wage cuts of 250 euros per month on its staff, under the threat of a social plan aimed at destroying 700 jobs! Conforama, André, Camaïeu – which you know well, Mr Darmanin –, La Halle...: there are no more popular signs threatened, under the influence of debts and interest rates of 12%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u173	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u175	How is it that, in our country, companies and employees are working to repay loans at the usury rate of 12%? That the Peugeot Group take advantage of the current unrest to bring hundreds of Polish and Spanish workers to the North in Hordain? Tomorrow, it may be the French who will have to go to work in mass at 1000 kilometers from home. It is not from this world that we want for our children. We are not pawns, which can be relocated according to the activity of the various companies of a group at European Union level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u177	The State cannot simply finance these companies and hope that they will make good use of its money. Look at Sanofi, who has just announced the elimination of a thousand jobs in France, while preparing to pay 4 billion dividends! That is why criteria must be laid down for the allocation of aid to large companies and for their employees to be given more power to control its use. The state must set the course, determine the major industrial recovery and investment strategies, in order to relocate the activity. It is necessary to guarantee professional paths adapted to each Frenchman, combining employment and training, favouring conversions, in connection for example with the ecological transition. In this regard, let us invest in rail freight,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u178	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u179	...in our ports, in the energy renovation of houses, buildings! There are hundreds of thousands of jobs to be filled, and it is urgent! I repeat, let us also give more resources to essential public services, to health, to our schools and universities, to the support of the elderly, to research, to safety, to energy! Here too, we can create hundreds of thousands of jobs. Capital, great fortunes are not put to use; We have to get there, Minister. Stop saying you mustn't touch it. It's always the little ones who pay, never the fat ones! You have just extended the contribution for the repayment of the social debt, the CRDS, until 2033, when it was supposed to end in 2024. Explain to me what this measure is, if not a tax increase that affects all French people! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will propose amendments aimed at more tax justice and supported by many associations, such as ATTAC. This is the state of mind we are approaching this third PLFR: more combative than ever!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u180	Bravo, Mr. Roussel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u181	You're in good shape, Mr. Roussel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u182	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u183	The previous PLFRs were intended to keep businesses in afloat and to introduce partial unemployment measures. The urgency is now different: it is a matter of developing a plan to boost activity and support businesses in order to enable the economy to restart under the best conditions. However, between the decisions taken in this House and their application on the ground, there is a certain gap. We cannot multiply the PLFRs by referring each time to the next one the necessary recovery measures. If we postpone the arbitrations at the beginning of the year, the measures will not be implemented until 2021; By then, many TPEs and SMEs will have disappeared. From this point of view, this new PLFR is truly lacking in scope: the 43.1 billion additional appropriations are not commensurate with the stakes and will not be able to support our economy in a sufficiently sectoral way. The German federal government has presented a plan of 130 billion, which reveals a completely different ambition. If we want to save our economy "no matter what," to quote the President of the Republic, we must act massively now. The recovery plan is a snowshoe with large holes. Exemptions from charges confined to the period of administrative closure are insufficient: many TPEs have not been able to return to normal operation, despite the definity. We must support them for the time necessary to ensure that their activities resume fully and that they can replenish their cash flow. Without this, we will see many of them permanently lowering the curtain, which would be an economic catastrophe coupled with a social waste. Section 1 of this bill is incomplete, both in terms of the duration of the exemption and its scope. All undertakings affected by administrative closures should be exempt from public domain occupancy charges; their subcontractors and suppliers have been affected as much as they were. I am thinking in particular of the wine and spirits sectors. State support must be free from sectoral restrictions and must not be limited to the confinement period alone. We will defend amendments to that effect. In addition, the plan presented does not take sufficient account of the specific situations of certain tourism professionals. Beach establishments operate through concessions lasting up to 12 years. Many entrepreneurs did not apply for the State-guaranteed loan: not knowing whether their concession would be extended or renewed, they abstained from applying for a credit that they were not sure they could repay. Why not extend by one year all the concessions of these establishments, by regulation, by decreeing "white" the 2020 season? Other great forgotten ones, which I am sure will receive the attention of the ministers: discotheques, forced to close in the context of the health crisis, and which cannot reopen until September, by unilateral decision of the Government. Night-time professionals are employers of TPEs or SMEs; Like any company manager, they need to project themselves into the future and consider post-crisis. We cannot leave them in the most complete uncertainty. Therefore, you will want to set a precise schedule for the reopening of nightclubs and nightclubs as soon as possible. Their closure until further notice is an economic and social catastrophe, moreover experienced as a punishment by many young people who already feel that they are the sacrificed generation of the Covid-19. One may wonder why nothing, or so little, has been planned to support and accompany young people. Less affected by the virus, on the other hand, they are on the front line, hit hard by the consequences of the pandemic. Its impact is threefold: it challenges their employment prospects, disrupts their education and hinders those who want to enter the labour market. Youth employment must become one of the national priorities. I am thinking in particular of the 50,000 apprentices who are at risk of losing their jobs on 1 September. If we are not to keep the memory of a "covid generation" excluded from the labour market, we must mobilize now, not just the announcement of great consultation, the promise of a youth employment plan in a few months' time. In a few months, that is to say, at the start of the school year, it will already be too late. If we wait for the PLF for 2021 to take measures to meet the crisis, measures we are already proposing, many SMEs and TPEs will have succumbed, especially in the night, tourism, wine and spirits sectors; We will have sacrificed our youth. To save our businesses, our jobs, to give opportunities to our young people, we ask you to act immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u184	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u185	At the end of this general discussion, which I thank you for, I would like to elaborate on some points. Don't worry, Mr Mélenchon: to my great regret, because I would be very interested, I am not going to deal here with the comparative merits of Jacques Rueff, Antoine Pinay, Colbert, Jacques Cœur and Éric Woerth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u186	You're the one who launched the subject, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u187	... but I am at your disposal to prolong this historic debate with the drink. On the other hand, I would like to say how well Gérald Darmanin and I have reinvented ourselves. Eric Coquerel blames us for the opposite and accuses us of doing exactly the same as before. But in 2017, when Gérald Darmanin was appointed Minister of Action and Public Accounts, and I Minister of Economy and Finance, there would have been few people to bet that, three years later, we would be able to spend as much public money as the state would also strongly support the French economy. Spend tens of billions for our SMEs, our TPEs, our independents, our traders, if it's not reinventing, I don't know what it's called!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u188	That's proof your thing isn't working!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u189	As regards the alleged lack of conditions put by the State in support of certain undertakings, I am formally contesting it. Large European states, held by majorities considered to be left-wing, supported their state-owned companies, including their airlines, without requiring any consideration of any kind. We asked Air France to reduce its carbon footprint, to become the most environmentally friendly company, and to remove its internal lines when the train takes less than two and a half hours to cover the same route. I would have liked all the countries of Europe to imitate France in this respect. I also want to say how much priority will be given to young people, and how much doubt and ambiguity there will be on this point. This third PLFR contains strong measures for youth employment. You have all, or almost all, stressed that it is essential that such measures be adopted without delay: they will be adopted, which will allow them to be applied at the beginning of the year. I am thinking of those relating to apprenticeship, the contract of professionalisation, and any additional provisions which might be added to them when considering this text. Our collective responsibility is to show the 700000 young people who will arrive in the labour market in September that we are providing them with concrete solutions. Finally, I maintain that the timetable we have chosen, after consulting economists and our European partners, is the right one. It enables a massive and immediate response to save our economy, sectoral plans to support aeronautics, the automotive industry, trade, tourism, catering, hotels and youth employment measures. At the end of August and the beginning of September, other measures will aim at reviving our economy for the next two years: reducing taxes which still weigh too heavily on certain sectors, supporting the ecological transition – I agree with Mr Roussel on this point – through the energy renovation of buildings, the use of rail transport and the hydrogen sector. All of this will find its place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u190	We have held that your model is Jacques Coeur, Mr. Le Maire!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u191	I now call the clauses of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u192	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 362.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u193	The aim of this amendment is simply to remind us that, for the past three years, the structural deficit has been stable, at 2.2 points of GDP. It is therefore not correct that, in the face of the crisis, we have found ourselves in a favourable situation, as explained by the Government; There has been no recovery in public finances over the past three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u194	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u195	It is a legitimate demand for a multi-year view of the trajectory of the public balance. The introductory article still stands at n-1; I refer you to my report, published yesterday morning, which contains the public balance for previous years. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u197	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u198	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u199	[[Smile]] These were not the figures, which the Government will not challenge, since they are its own. The structural deficit was already 2.2% in 2018 and 2019; it is still in 2020, i.e. it has not been reduced. Some truths are always good to remember. That said, we are not going to waste our time there: I am withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u200	I have before me two amendments, Nos 415 and 355 which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u201	In the same spirit as Charles de Courson, I would like to quote recital 51 of the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, the HCFP, on this text: "In the scenario of the Government the structural balance would deviate in 2020 from that set out in the programming law of January 2018. Such a discrepancy, if confirmed by the High Council's review of the 2020 bill of regulations in the spring of 2021, would lead to the triggering of the correction mechanism provided for in section 23 of the Organic Act of 17 December 2012. » We will admit that we are experiencing a crisis of a cyclical nature; What is aberrant is that it has an impact on the structural balance, which is not improving. We have been telling you for three years that you are making no effort to reduce this deficit. The economic situation is the crisis of the coronavirus; For the rest, there is an urgent need to rectify the path of the structural deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u202	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 355.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u203	This amendment by Valérie Rabault aims to correct the forecast of the structural balance for 2020 by increasing it from -2.2% to -2.4%. I would point out to the minister that when we examined the previous PLFR, we had tabled an amendment to provide for a deficit of 2.2% instead of 2%. Today, we're here. Perhaps we will be entitled to a deficit of 2.4% in the next PLFR?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u204	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u205	Pires Beaune, if there is a difference between the second PLFR and the third, it is because the public balance of 2019 has itself changed between these two texts; from -2.2% to -2% and then again to -2.2%. These two amendments under discussion deal with the same subject, but vice versa. Mrs.Dalloz, you are clinging to the 2018 law of public finance programming: everyone will have understood that the trajectories planned at that time are obsolete...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u206	Short-term trajectories, not structural ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u207	...and that it would be unreasonable to stick to it. Moreover, in order to arrive at the structural deficit of 1.6% which you refer to, we would have to cut public spending,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u208	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u209	...what no one wants, especially not you, or increase taxes, what no one wants, especially not you. As for Mrs Pires Beaune, perhaps she will be right at the end of the year; We will see what final structural balance will be included in the end-of-management PLFR. At this point, I propose that we stick to the equivalent of 2019. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u211	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u212	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have several requests for statements and, for once, Mr de Courson has asked for them first and foremost... Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u213	The only point of these amendments is to ask you a question, minister: when will we consider the public finance programming bill, which is promised by the end of April?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u214	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u215	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u216	I understand the spirit of your amendment, Mrs Dalloz, but you cannot force reality by changing the structural balance, except to propose savings measures or new tax revenue. But you refuse each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u217	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u218	I do not understand, therefore, that you insist on forcing reality, as far as the deficit is concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u219	Structural measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u220	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u221	These discussions about the structural deficit will always amaze me. Has anyone in this House looked at how the structural deficit is calculated?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u222	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u223	You probably spent a whole morning trying to understand the econometric models that are based on impugned assumptions, both methodologically and theoretically, academically, statistically and empirically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u224	And political!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u225	We discuss numbers whose calculation method is made of many presuppositions. This remains a benchmark. I agree to adopt it, but in this case I agree with Mrs Cariou that tax credits or tax expenditures should not be created on an ongoing basis. On the contrary, we must reduce our public spending and not imagine tax schemes that do not meet the ambition of reducing the structural deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u226	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u227	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u228	I know our brilliant rapporteur-general well aware of these questions so as not to react. We are not talking about the nominal deficit but about the structural deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u229	There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u230	The fact that the crisis we have experienced is cyclical largely explains the increase in the nominal and cyclical deficit. As far as the structural deficit is concerned, we have been asking you for three or four years to take measures to contain public expenditure. It is not a question of increasing taxes, which we are fiercely opposed to, but of making better use of public money collected from the French, the people of the majority will surely hear it. That is structural reform. As for the method of calculating the structural deficit, the results depend on several assumptions, including potential growth, that is true. It remains that this method is neither contested nor challenged, so there is no need to bring it to trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u231	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u232	This debate in the opening article has become a great classic to which all those who sign or co-sign amendments are accustomed, in particular Mrs Dalloz. That's a good thing. It may seem abscons, but to look at it more closely, it is not so much. In any case, it highlights the concept of a real deficit, beyond the economic situation. I would like to point out once again, in this respect, that we have approached this crisis in a situation of weakness compared to other countries because we have not taken advantage of the more favourable economic climate in France and Europe – more broadly, in the world – to restructure our public finances, if only in part, since in this respect, such measures are only bearing fruit in the long term. This relative weakness could explain why we are getting out of the crisis more slowly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u233	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u234	This debate is not pointless, but I think it's out of date. The law on public finance programming runs until 2022. Nothing, of course, prevents us, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has proposed, from discussing whether we are approaching a crisis in a position of strength or weakness that no one had foreseen. I recognize that, from the point of view of public finances, our position is less good than that of Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u235	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u236	This situation, let us be honest, is due to the legacy of the last twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u237	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u238	Even if we were forced to take accelerated measures to restore public finances, at the risk of weakening growth, public debt could not have increased from 97% of GDP to less than 60%, as in Germany. Let's recognize him and stop comparing what can't be. We have stabilized the situation and, although it was probably possible to do better, we could not have done otherwise, because of the legacy of the last twenty years of public finances to France, than to approach the crisis in a less favourable position than Germany. Of course, at some point we will need a new law on public finance programming, but it is not a priority. Above all, we must take measures to support the French economy, the most affected sectors, the self-employed, traders, the automotive industry, aeronautics, businesses and craftsmen. This is the subject of this third amending finance bill. The French would not understand that we were very theoretically debating the concept of potential growth or structural deficit rather than thinking about how best to support the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u239	One doesn't prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u240	However, I do not neglect public finances. We will have to continue to examine public finances carefully in due course. It is for this reason, moreover, that I proposed, in my speech, that the debt linked to the covid -19 epidemic should be limited in order to recognise the existence of this debt linked to an exceptional economic situation, as very rarely happens, as a result of particularly serious economic crises or wars. We therefore propose to limit this debt and, in order to repay it, to set a timetable which could run, for example, some 20 years, until 2042. In this way, we assure that this debt, apart from because of exceptional circumstances, will be well repaid. Don't worry, we still care about public finances, but it's a long-term concern. For the time being, we must first and foremost worry about rehabilitating the French economy and supporting our businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u241	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 944, 1376, 1377, 1378, 1379 and 357 which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Emilie Cariou, in support of Amendments Nos 944, 1376, 1377, 1378 and 1379, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u242	Amendments Nos 944 and 1376 are defended. I will present in more detail the others, which also tend to request the submission of a report. Amendment No. 1377 seeks to ensure that the Government submits to Parliament a report detailing the evolution of revenue and expenditure forecasts for ecological transition and social justice in relation to sectoral aid, in particular for the rail sector. The report requested by Amendment No 1378 would specify how companies, supported by the public authorities, contribute to this transition through counterparties to the financial aid received. As for Amendment No 1379, it is intended that a report should clarify the development of revenue and expenditure forecasts with regard to the involvement of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u243	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u244	This amendment requires the Government to report on the evolution of the forecast of balance, income and expenditure for each category of public administration, in particular local government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u246	I call on Mrs Cariou to withdraw her amendments, all of which are intended to explain the revision of the public balance in the light of the taxes of multinationals or other data, failing which I shall be unfavourable because such measures do not have their place in this text: if we want to understand the state's public balance, we can consult the budgetary documentation. Amendment No 357 is interesting because many of us, I am in the lead, are asking, when examining each PLFR, for details of the balance of the various administrations. The balance of all general government, UPAs, would decline to less than $250.4 billion in 2020, i.e. less than 11.4% of GDP. The balance of central government is estimated to be less than 8.3% of GDP, with the government's share of 9.4% and that of various central government agencies, the ODACs, for which Charles de Courson tabled an amendment in committee, at 1.1%. The balance of local government would be less than 0.4 per cent, while the balance of social security administrations would be less than 2.7 per cent. This is the details of the French public deficit as presented in this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u248	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u249	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u250	Thank you for that reminder, Mr rapporteur-general. Darmanin had given us these figures and I asked him to explain to me the reasons for the 1.1 per cent surplus of GDP for SDOs. The rapporteur-general, who had not been able to reply to me, had undertaken to question the Government in order to reply to me at the meeting. I therefore ask again the question: where does this surplus of 1.1%, or 25 billion, come from?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u251	I suggest you put it back to the Minister of Public Accounts when he returns. The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u252	The question is put to the Government, but I would like to answer it because we have dealt with the subject in committee. I had not put forward the figure of 1.1% because I did not know it at the time, but this amount corresponds to the resumption of SNCF's debt. Perhaps Mr Darmanin will complete this answer later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u254	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u255	By what miracle can the resumption of SNCF's debt lead to a surplus for the ODACs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u256	Miracles are coming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u257	As far as the budget is concerned, I do not believe it. From memory, SNCF's debt amounts to 35 billion. However, 1.1% of GDP corresponds to 25 billion. By what turn of the pass did you achieve this result? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u258	Let us not dwell more than necessary on this, since Mr. Darmanin seems to be the only one who has the answer. You'll ask him the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u259	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u260	We hope he answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u261	We are considering the first part of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u262	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1918 and 662, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1918.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u263	It is intended to encourage owners subject to income tax to reduce the amount of rent by a few months – or to donate it when they can – through the creation of a tax rebate in the category "land income". The effort made by the owners will thus be less burdensome and will be able to help businesses more effectively. The aim is to provide practical assistance to tenants without harming the owners: finally, everyone wins. The scheme would also be a way of restoring equity because, while many local and regional authorities granted rent exemptions to TPEs and SMEs to support them during the crisis, those renting their premises to private owners did not receive the same aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u264	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 662.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u265	It is based on the same principle, except that my colleague Véronique Louwagie was careful to limit the scheme, i.e. to define a ceiling on the tax reduction. This would send a strong signal to all owners who have made the effort to grant rent reductions to their tenants and are currently experiencing a dry loss of revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u267	In PLFR 2, we adopted an amendment by Jean-Noël Barrot and the MODEM Group creating a mechanism that seemed balanced to me: a tax incentive for owners who would cancel the company's rents. In the debate, we made it clear that it was important to make the difference because, if businesses – especially the smaller ones – needed to reduce their burdens in the absence of revenue, the fact is less true for individuals. In order to accompany those who need it most, the amending finance bill contains, as the previous one, measures aimed at the most fragile. Therefore, it seems to me that we should stick to the public concerned, namely companies. Moreover, the tax mechanism adopted in PLFR 2 was a reduction in the tax base of the lessor, not a tax reduction, which may have an impact on the tax rate, and it seems to me desirable to retain it. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u268	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 2043.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u269	I am pleased to defend this amendment tabled on the initiative of our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei. In times of crisis, businesses need cash flow. The amendment is intended to facilitate the use of the leasing scheme, or "lease back". This tool consists, for the owner of a property, of selling it to a leasing company, which rents it over a fairly long period of time, allowing it to retain its enjoyment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u271	We have already had this discussion, which is important indeed. You propose the reinstatement until 2022 of the distribution of the tax on capital gains in the context of lease transfers. For my part, I believe that there are already satisfactory possibilities for distribution: certain professional capital gains may in particular be exempt from tax, and I will not go back here to the measures of direct aid to the cash flow of enterprises. The rule of law seems satisfactory and we do not wish to go any further. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u272	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 2193.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u273	It proposes a scheme in favour of companies which I ask the Minister to look kindly at. It aims to extend the benefit of Article 42f of the General Tax Code to the financing allocated to undertakings through the scheme of energy saving certificates, which are currently imposed from the year in which they are collected, without taking into account the rate of depreciation of the property under investment. The effect of this provision is to charge an excess tax to the company investing in the energy transition. The amendment proposes to spread the payment according to the rate of use of the property. The scheme does not involve tax evasion and would be very practical for businesses at this particular time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u275	I may repeat myself in the rest of the discussion, and I apologise for it in advance, but such a mechanism seems to me to be more part of the PLF than of the PLFR, because it does not provide an immediate cash solution. But we need to focus on what would help companies, especially those in the targeted sectors, to recover. I have no doubt that our collective fiscal imagination, and especially yours, Mrs Cariou, will participate greatly, but let us reserve our energy for the PLF and concentrate here on the future of businesses and short-term employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u277	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u278	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u279	I hear what you are saying, Mr rapporteur, but I still ask you, because the scheme would be very useful to companies. You are boasting my fiscal imagination; It is not a question of creating revenue here, but of reducing the tax on companies benefiting from energy saving certificates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u280	Imagination goes both ways!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u281	I am here against employment, but I would like us to come back to it during the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u282	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1964 and 2042. Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the Committee on Finance, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1964.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u283	It aims to develop employee ownership. Far from being reserved for the PLF, it has its full place in a programme to stimulate or support businesses. First, it is based on the company's own funds, not on debt. Second, employees now feel that they are part of the misfortune of their own company; So you have to recreate trust...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u284	By raising wages, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u285	...and better involve employees in the recovery of the economy at a time when I hope it will take place. By means of a technical measure, because the law obliges us to do so, the amendment favours the transformation of the sums derived from rights entered in the TECs – time savings accounts – into wage savings plans, but I would understand that we are proceeding differently. In any case, linking employees to the positive destiny of the company would be a beautiful message to pass into a dark economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u286	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2042.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u287	When the recovery comes, I think that the minister will be keen to promote participation, interest and employee ownership, which are a good way to involve French and French people in the success of their business – and in its governance, with regard to employee ownership. But without waiting for the recovery, it seems to me that we can now move a modest step forward by allowing employees to pay not ten, but twenty days of their TEC into an employee shareholding fund, i.e. to contribute to the financing of their company at a time when they need own funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u288	Bravo! Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u290	There is already a system for transferring ten days of CET to an EEP – a business savings plan – which you propose to double here. But is it known whether, at present, the amounts transferred to the EPEs are being used to become an employee shareholder of its own company? I am not sure and it would be interesting to conduct an evaluation on the subject. One can invest in EAPs through asset management funds, but it is more complicated to become an employee shareholder of one's own company, if only because not all of them allow it. Is it really effective to double the device under these conditions? Moreover, to exempt it from any social burden and taxation does not seem reasonable to me. The immediate need for employees is not to transfer more days of leave to EDPs. However, I agree with you on the substance of the amendment, which is to promote employee ownership. If it turns out that the EEP is a good way to acquire shares of its own business, it will indeed be necessary to encourage the dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u292	The same opinion as the rapporteur-general, to which I will add a few more general comments. First of all, we are seeking to adopt stimulus measures that unlock the savings of the French. They will have deposited close to $100 billion on their sight accounts and savings plans by the end of 2020. The aim is not to inflate this saving, but rather to consume it. Secondly, I agree with and support the opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance on the development of stock savings plans and business savings plans. I am ready for us to examine in the coming weeks whether certain mechanisms can be adopted to support them in the framework of the recovery plan, by involving Jean-Noël Barrot in the reflection. We have already done much in this direction with the PACTE law, with good results on employee ownership. Can we do more? Why not? But, I repeat, this is not the way to revive the French economy. Finally, we are extremely supportive of interest and participation, and the PACTE law has also done much to develop them. We are ready to go further to support the purchasing power of employees, but these measures will have their place in future texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u293	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u294	It proposes to introduce a minimum amount of EUR 200 for the sustainable mobility package, which corresponds to the amount to which the State has committed itself for the civil service. Employers would be free to go higher. In addition, the amendment proposes to increase the threshold for exemption from tax and social charges from EUR 400 to EUR 500. It responds in this way to the SD-A1.1 proposal of the Citizen Climate Convention, and I hope he will have your benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u296	The scheme has been in force since 10 May. We still need a step back to measure its effectiveness, but I can only agree on the substance, especially since the Citizen's Climate Convention is also pushing in this direction – and it is right. Any initiative to promote soft mobility to the workplace must be encouraged, it seems obvious. First, let's see if the sustainable mobility package meets the objective set for it by the LOM law – the mobility guidance law – we will then expand it, if necessary. Request for withdrawal pending an evaluation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u298	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u299	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-29-O1250.u300	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the amending finance bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
