ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u1	The next item is the statement by the Government on the national strategy of the deconfinement plan in the context of the fight against the Covid -19 epidemic, followed by a debate and a vote, pursuant to article 50-1 of the Constitution. [[Mr. President's speaking up. – Mrs and Mr. Members of Parliament and members of the Government stand up to listen to him]] Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with these words: 'The sitting is open', I also say that today's sitting is open to the hopes that we share with our compatriots and that it is resolutely focused on the happy tomorrow that each of us calls for his wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is not at this point of secondary consideration, as we feel, in the depths of ourselves, with the French people, that we are going through a trial that will mark the history of our country, the history of Europe and the history of the world, with its procession of fears, uncertainties and doubts. In these places full of the fruitful and tormented history of our democracy, we all know how much our values of freedom, equality and fraternity have been repeatedly put to the test. This House, where the nation is represented, has experienced wars, tragedies, pandemics, natural disasters, all these striking moments that obscure the horizon. Sometimes, this darkness colores many lives, faced with the sneaky threat of a silent virus that has already torn away so many women and men, fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, friends and comrades. Doubt and fear shake our rationalities, while optimism, consubstantial to life, leads to clinging to every emerging hope. In this moment when impatience is the translation of the desire to live, we must admit a part of ignorance and trial, we must recognize that the wounds of this crisis will be profound and that words will not suffice to heal them. Today, Prime Minister, you know that you do not govern a phenomenon that dominates us and we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the pandemic is stronger than any of our laws. No manifestation of impotence, saying that, only the consciousness of being reminded to the tragic of any individual or collective history, which makes all vanity derisory. May I, ladies and gentlemen, teach us this general shake-up to deal with the subjects in all their profound complexity, not in their apparent simplicity. We owe this responsibility to the French, since we are the national representative. You are not only seventy-five Members in this Chamber – an exceptionally small number of Members in order to comply with health recommendations. I welcome, of course, all our colleagues whose physical absence must not mask active work and remote presence. You are not only seventy-five deputies, you represent the Republic, in its rich diversity, with its different sensitivities and political views. You are not only seventy-five Members of Parliament, you carry the expectation and hope of millions of French who look at us today, for the story that summons us is that of the daily life of each and our collective destiny. We owe this responsibility also to all those whose energy and courage force our admiration: the caregivers, the security and relief forces, the civil servants, the peasants, the workers, the workers, the parents, as well as the elected representatives of all the territories, who remind us every day that France is diverse and that generous solidarity initiatives make fraternity a national cement in the face of the storm and give substance to this word of our national motto. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] Prime Minister, you show deep respect in the National Assembly by choosing to speak first from this rostrum. You will receive the attentive listening of an assembly inhabited certainly by the spirit of harmony imposed by the national context, but also by the difference that underpins our democracy. There is no doubt that the rich debate that is about to take place and the vote that will close it will allow everyone to speak and engage in front of the French and French. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment when we have to tell France how our life will resume. Since 17 March, our country has been confined. Who would have imagined, only three months ago, the place this word was going to take in our public debate? Who could have envisaged a France in which, suddenly, schools, universities, cafes, restaurants, a majority of companies, libraries, bookstores, churches, temples, synagogues and mosques, public gardens and beaches, theatres, stadiums, all these common places – to use a formula that the President of the National Assembly loves – would have been closed? Never in the history of our country had we experienced such a situation: neither during the wars, nor during the occupation, nor during the previous epidemics. The country had never been confined, as it is today. Obviously, it cannot be sustained, because if containment was a necessary step, it could, if it lasted too long, have harmful effects. Containment has been an effective tool to combat the virus, to contain the spread of the epidemic, to prevent the saturation of hospital capacities and, in so doing, to protect the most fragile French people. Since April 14, the number of cases of Covid-19 hospitalized has decreased: from more than 32,000 hospitalized patients, it has fallen to about 28,000. Since 8 April, the number of cases in resuscitation has decreased: it exceeded 7100; It's now 4600. The downfall's on. It's regular – slow, I'll come back, but regular. According to a study by the École des hautes études en santé publique, confinement would have prevented at least 62,000 deaths in one month and 105,000 resuscitation beds would have missed in the absence of containment. I don't think our country would have endured that. However, an instrument is only valid if its positive effects are not overtaken over time by its negative consequences. But we know, through intuition or experience, that prolonged confinement beyond the strictly necessary would have serious consequences for the nation. We feel that the prolonged cessation of the production of entire parts of our economy, that the lasting disruption of the schooling of a large number of children and adolescents, that the interruption of investments, public or private, that the prolonged closure of borders, that the extreme limitation of the freedom to come and go, to meet, to visit their relatives, to their parents would present for the country, not only the painful disadvantage of confinement, but indeed the much more terrible one of the risk of collapse. I don't use that term at random. I am accused more often of using litter than of exaggeration. We therefore need, gradually, cautiously, but resolutely, to achieve a deconfination that is as long-awaited as risky and dreaded. The Government's objective is to present to the National Assembly and, thanks to it, to the French, our national strategy, that is, the objectives we aim to achieve and how we will proceed to achieve them as of 11 May. Any strategy is based on findings. The first one is medical. It holds in a few simple words, which all French people must have in mind: we will have to live with the virus. Since no vaccine is available in the short term, no treatment has so far shown its effectiveness and we are far from achieving the famous group immunity, the virus will continue to circulate among us. It's not happy, but it's a fact. We can hope the virus disappears on its own. Epidemic specialists agree – at least some of them – that this happens, that epidemics sometimes stop without knowing why. It is hoped that the incredible research effort undertaken worldwide will soon lead to treatment and, within twelve to twenty-four months, a vaccine, which would return the virus to the health issues resolved by human intelligence and technology. We can certainly hope for all of this, but to found a public policy and to organize the lives of the French around such uncertain assumptions is not possible. So we need to learn to live with the Covid-19 and protect ourselves from it. This is the first constraint – and the first axis of our strategy. The second observation is both medical and political. He wants to see the epidemic go back to life. The decision to confine our country has made it possible to slow down the circulation of the virus. It has allowed our resuscitation or intensive care services never to be saturated to the point that they would not have been able to admit new patients. It has allowed the commitment of caregivers, the imagination of hospital teams, the logistical organization of care to hold, despite considerable pressure, never seen. I repeat: our hospital system has held – but it has done so at the cost of a well-understood fatigue of women and men, at the cost of a consumption of resuscitation drugs and consumables never seen before, at the cost of a deprogramming of surgical operations not necessary in the short term, but which will eventually be. The risk of a second wave, which would strike a weakened hospital tissue, which would impose a reconfinition, which would ruin the efforts and sacrifices made during these eight weeks, is a serious risk – a risk that must be taken seriously. This risk requires that we proceed with caution, gradually, surely, by taking back our lives in ways that allow us, week after week, to check that we control the rate of circulation of the virus. The second axis of our strategy will therefore be progressivity. The third factor to be considered is geographical. It also holds in a few words: the circulation of the virus is not uniform in the country. Some parts have been severely affected, some territories still record, after six weeks of confinement, a high number of new daily cases, but in others, the virus is almost absent. This heterogeneous circulation of the virus creates, in fact, differences between territories. For all those who, like me, believe in common sense, it is not unnecessary – it seems even necessary – to take account of these differences in the way in which deconfinity is to be organised. It is not only a matter of not applying the same pattern in places where the situation is objectively different, but also of allowing local authorities, including mayors and prefects, the possibility of adapting the national strategy according to the circumstances. That is why the President of the Republic and I decided to say quickly what our national strategy was, so that those who will participate in its implementation could make their arrangements as soon as possible. With several members of the Government, with the interministerial coordinator Jean Castex, I will meet tomorrow with the associations of local elected representatives and the prefects, Thursday the social partners, to start this work of consultation and adaptation of the plan to the realities of the field. Living with the virus, acting gradually, adapting locally: these are the three principles of our national strategy. From 11 May its implementation will be based on the triptych "Protect, test, isolate". Protecting is to avoid getting infected with the virus or infecting others. The doctors tell us that the contagiosity of the disease appears two days before the first symptoms and disappears several days later. They also say that carriers of the virus in a significant proportion have no symptoms and do not know that they can transmit it. Therefore, it is imperative for everyone to be able to adopt the behaviours that prevent contamination. From the moment we are no longer in a situation of confinement, when the opportunities for contact will increase again – we will have to limit them, but they will remain more important than today – compliance with barriers and social distancing measures will become even more important. These barrier gestures, everyone knows them now: physical distancing and regular hand washing. To this, it will be necessary to add – I say to add – the wearing of the mask in certain situations. I would like to return to this subject precisely because this issue of masks has aroused the incomprehension and anger of many French people: why was it not for everyone, should we wear them, where to find them? When the crisis began, we had a large stock of surgical masks – important in the sense that it allowed us to respond to more than twenty weeks of normal hospital service consumption. Domestic production was below normal consumption, but supplemented by regular imports. With the outbreak of the epidemic in China, then its arrival in Italy, import became momentarily impossible and consumption increased to incredible proportions. Like all European countries, like the United States of America, France had to manage the risk of a shortage of masks. Three decisions were therefore taken. First, increase the national production of surgical masks, as much as possible. It's not easy, but we're doing this, doubling it to begin with, and almost five times its initial volume. Next, reserve the existing stock for hospital staff, to guarantee the supply of these masks to those who, on the front line, would have to treat the sick. At times, we have doubted our ability to ensure this supply over time. To reserve the masks to the caregivers was, mechanically, to refuse to distribute them to others: it is a difficult choice; it is a disputed choice; It's a choice that I thought was necessary. Finally, we launched the production of fabric masks to complete the supply and not to depend on imports, which we did not know if they could resume and, if they resumed, for how long. Scientists themselves have evolved. At first, many told us that the general wearing of the mask was not necessary, that the risk of misuse was greater than the expected benefits. We have repeated it; I said it myself. They tell us today – they are sometimes the same – that it is preferable, in many circumstances, to wear a mask rather than not to wear one: it is therefore up to me to say it, and to ensure that it is possible. During the shortage phase, the requisition tool was very useful. For several weeks now, since we have been reassured about our ability to provide health care providers in masks, in a broad sense, we have encouraged all actors to buy masks. The customs data show this quite clearly: it enters our country far more masks than the Government orders. And believe me, he's in charge! We now receive nearly 100 million surgical masks per week; We will receive nearly 20 million washable consumer masks starting in May. We have encouraged businesses and communities to purchase masks as well; Some, by the way, had not waited for us to do so. We will provide financial support to local authorities who purchase consumer masks from this day onwards, covering 50% of the cost of these masks up to a reference price.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u3	And before?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u4	You probably noticed, we recently reopened the fabric shops and sewing workshops, and distributed practical masking guides, so that everyone could mobilize to produce them. Thanks to this mobilization of all, there will be enough masks in the country to meet the needs from 11 May. But the challenge, the responsibility of the public authorities, our collective responsibility, is to organize this effort in the coming weeks to prevent some from having too many masks, when others do not have too many masks. Gradually, we will arrive at a classic situation where the French will be able, without risk of shortage, to obtain general public masks in all shops. In the meantime, the state, local authorities, businesses and private initiative must be complementary and not competing. The President of the Republic said: we will rely on the mayors and the prefects, with the assistance of all. I urge all companies, when their means permit, to ensure that their employees are equipped. It is a condition of recovery: they know it, they say it. The regions and the state will set up support for very small enterprises, TPEs, and self-employed workers, beyond the initiatives already taken by a number of branches or professional organisations. An e-commerce platform will be opened by the Post Office from 30 April and will distribute several million masks to those who need them every week. The State and local authorities will ensure the protection of their staff, in particular those in contact with the public. The prefects will have a local envelope to support smaller communities with departments and regions. Education staff and college students will also receive masks. Pharmacies and large distribution will be invited to sell, under conditions that we will define with them to avoid the phenomena of shortage, disposable or washable masks. Individuals are of course invited to make masks themselves under the conditions recommended by AFNOR, the Association française de la normalisation, and the ANSM, the Agence nationale de sécurité du médicadie et des produits de santé. Finally, we will reserve a weekly envelope of 5 million washable masks so that the prefects, together with the mayors and the presidents of departmental councils, organize the distribution to those of our fellow citizens who are in the greatest precariousness, through the communal centres of social action — CASA — and the associations. Protect, then. Test, then. Again, the scientific recommendations have evolved. After all, it's probably normal in the face of an unknown virus. This health crisis resolutely refers everyone to a duty of humility. The initial doctrine was, in what we called phase 1, to test as much as possible. In fact, we tested a lot in phase 1. When a case appeared at Contamines-Montjoie, and it had to be circumscribed, we tested massively those who had approached, from near or far, the identified patients. But the doctrine was that once the epidemic was in phase 3, only patients who were hospitalized for Covid's suspicion, symptomatic caregivers, and first cases in institutions with fragile audiences were tested. That's what we did. Times have changed; WHO doctrine, the World Health Organization, too. At the end of the confinement, we will be able to massify our tests. We have set ourselves the objective of carrying out at least 700000 virological tests per week from 11 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u5	The Germans are 3 million! Four times more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u6	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u7	Why's that number? Because the Scientific Council tells us that at this stage, epidemiological models foresee between 1000 and 3000 new cases per day from 11 May. Because each new case will correspond, on average, to the test of at least 20 to 25 people who crossed it in the previous days; 3000 times 25 times 7, that gives 525,000 tests a week; 700000 gives us the margin that will allow us, in addition to these tests of the chains of contamination, to carry out screening campaigns, as we have already undertaken in particular for the institutions of accommodation for dependent elderly people — EHPAD. To achieve this target, we blew up the locks that prevented the participation of research laboratories and veterinary laboratories in this collective effort. The ability to blow up these locks on the ground, not only in speeches, is an exercise that also encourages, I can tell you, a great humility. We have engaged in the joint mobilisation of public and private laboratories, which can now rise in charge very quickly. This will ensure close access to levies throughout the territory. Finally, we will increase the coverage of these tests to 100% through health insurance. In a word, everything must be done to make it easy and quick to carry out the test. As soon as the test results are positive, we will start work to identify all those, symptomatic or not, who have been in close contact with the infected person. All these contact cases will be tested and asked to isolate themselves, given the uncertainty of incubation duration. This rule is simple to formulate. But it requires considerable resources to be systematically applied throughout France. We can only succeed through the mobilization of Liberal health professionals, including general practitioners and Liberal nurses. They will in some way constitute the first line in this search for contact cases for everything concerning the family unit. I know that they can mobilize for this mission, and we will accompany them. In support, the health insurance teams will take care of the multiplication of this process of identifying contact cases beyond the family unit. In each department, we will set up brigades to trace the list of contact cases, to call them, to invite them to be tested and to tell them where to go, and then to verify that these tests have taken place and that their results give rise to the correct application of the national doctrine. Protect first, then test, finally isolate. The ultimate objective of this ambitious testing policy is to allow the virus carriers to be isolated as quickly as possible in order to break transmission chains. Isolation is not punishment or punishment; isolation is a collective precautionary measure, a shelter. Isolation must be explained, consented to and accompanied. In this respect, our policy is based on individual responsibility and on the awareness that each person must have of his or her duties towards others. We will have control mechanisms in place, in case they are necessary, but our goal is to rely largely on each other's civics. It is also observed – as doctors say, those who have had to manage epidemics say – that individual consciousness, civic respect for the rules, when declared positive, is often almost absolute. It will be up to the prefects and local and regional authorities to define together, with the associative actors, the health professionals, the actors involved in home care, the plan to accompany people in this situation of isolation. We will leave the choice for the contaminated person to isolate himself from his home, which will result for obvious reasons in the confinement of the entire home for fourteen days, or in a place at his disposal, especially in requisitioned hotels. One more word on this subject, but an important word. Can we, or will we, in order to be more effective, rely on the extraordinary resources of digital tools? A European consortium has launched work to create the StopCovid application, the usefulness of which can only be considered as a complement to the measures I have just described. In addition, because the health surveys I have mentioned, whether physical or telephone, are vital, but have a weakness. In urban centres, they sometimes encounter the impossibility of reconstructing transmission chains in the most frequented places, especially in public transport. It's hard to tell anyone who shared your subway at seven hours forty-six on line 12. You don't know him, he doesn't know you, and RATP doesn't know you either. This is the purpose of the StopCovid project, which would allow those who crossed a contaminated person to integrate a health path, without of course having any information about the identity of the person concerned. Many political leaders, from all parties to the President of the National Assembly, have told me of their questions about this tool, particularly in the area of public freedoms and individual freedoms. These legitimate questions must be asked and debated. I even think that they will have to be voted on. For the time being, because of the uncertainties surrounding this application, I would hardly be able to tell you if it will work and in what way. I have no doubt that we will succeed in carrying out this project thanks to the engineers who will work hard on it. We are not here for the moment, so I think it is premature to start the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u8	It's not just a technical debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u9	I repeat: I pledge that a specific debate followed by a specific vote will take place once the application is operational and before it is implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u10	That's good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u11	The breakdown will be accompanied by protective measures. In particular, we will test and isolate. We will act progressively and differ according to the territories. We must proceed gradually to avoid a second wave by not allowing the epidemic to start again. We all prefer, here, that a new generalized confinement should not follow the deconfination. We are preparing for May 11 by monitoring all indicators to ensure, by department, that operations can be launched by that date. Here's an example to illustrate my prudence. I indicated that we were basing our testing strategy on an assumption of 3000 new cases a day around May 11. If the confinement was released by then and the number of new daily cases was not within the range planned and the many chains of contamination could not be broken by Thursday, 7 May, then we should be able to draw the consequences. I say to the French: if the indicators are not there, we will not disobey on 11 May or we will do it more strictly. I would prefer, believe me, that the assumptions made by modellers and epidemiologists, from 3000 cases a day to 11 May, be verified. If that is not the case, I am very clear, we will draw the consequences. Yesterday I received less favourable models from the Director General of Health, which could be due to the relaxation of behaviour, an insufficient decrease in the number of hospitalizations or the inaccuracy of the assumptions on which the modellers are based. I solemnly say this in front of the national representation: these uncertainties must incite all French people to the greatest discipline by 11 May and to the fight against the risks of relaxation that we sometimes feel rise in the country. If everything is ready on 11 May, as we think, then we will begin a phase which will last until 2 June and during which we will verify that the measures taken are capable of controlling the epidemic. Its evolution will determine the arrangements we will have to make for the next phase, which will run from 2 June to the summer. At the end of May, we will see if we can reopen the cafes and restaurants. It is therefore in three-week increments that we will move forward, paying attention to the effect of our decisions and to the behaviour of our fellow citizens. Progressivity is accompanied by differentiation between territories. Not all territories were affected in the same way by the epidemic. We all hope that on May 11, if the virus continues to circulate in some departments, it will save others or touch them little. It is therefore logical that, while keeping the utmost caution, we should propose a framework of deconfinement adapted to the local realities of both hexagon and overseas. The French Directorate-General for Health and Public Health have established three sets of criteria for identifying departments where deconfination will have to be more stringent: either the rate of new cases in the population, over a period of seven days, is high, which would mean that the circulation of the virus remains active, either the regional hospital capacity in resuscitation remains tense, or the local system of testing and detection of contamination chains is not ready. These indicators will be analysed on 7 May, in order to determine which departments switch to the "red" category on 11 May...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u12	Red? Would he talk about us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u13	... if virus circulation remains high or "green" if limited. Starting on Thursday, the Director General of Health will present every night the results map, department by department. Departments will use it to prepare for May 11, bearing in mind that strict containment slows down the circulation of the virus and re-establishes the hospital system, and that there is a need for an effective system of testing and detection of contact cases. I have presented to you the findings that formed the basis of the national deconfining strategy as well as the public health tools. I would now like to introduce you to the organisation of the daily life of the French from 11 May. Our national de-confinination strategy sets national rules for a few priority issues: school, businesses, businesses, transport, social life. Let's start with school. The President of the Republic recalled this: the return of our children to school is a pedagogical imperative, an imperative of social justice, especially for those who can hardly follow distance education. We want to reconcile this return with our public health goals. Thus, we propose a very gradual reopening of kindergartens and elementary school from 11 May, throughout the territory and on a voluntary basis. Then, from May 18, only in departments with very low virus circulation, we will be able to consider opening colleges, starting with the 6th and 5th classes. We will decide at the end of May whether we can reopen high schools, starting with professional high schools, early June. This decision was not taken lightly. We weighed the pros and cons after consulting with the specialists and studying the measures taken by other countries. The reopening of schools is necessary to ensure the educational success of pupils, especially the most vulnerable of them, whose schooling suffers terribly from confinement. The classes will reopen under strict sanitary conditions: no more than 15 students per class, a school life organized around respect for the gestures of barriers, strict hygiene measures and the distribution of hydro-alcoholic gel. All teachers and teachers in schools will receive masks that they will have to wear when they are unable to comply with the rules of distancing. With regard to the wearing of masks by children, scientific advice has led us to make the following decisions. The wearing of the mask is prohibited for kindergarten students. It is not recommended, given the risk of misuse, in elementary school, but the Ministry of National Education will make paediatric masks available to school principals, for particular cases – for example, for a child with symptoms in the course of the day, as long as his or her parents come to look for him or her. Finally, we will provide masks to college students who can wear masks and who would not have been able to obtain them, as wearing the mask will be mandatory for them. An intense preparation work must take place in each academy, so that we can prepare for this very special re-entry. Children will have to be able to attend school, either in their schools, up to 15 pupils per class, or at home, through distance education which will remain free of charge, or under study, if the school premises permit, or in out-of-school facilities provided by the local authorities, if they so wish, for sporting, cultural, civic or health-related activities. I admired the mobilization of national education officials during confinement, the dedication of the thousands of teachers who have been involved in welcoming the children of caregivers – who will, of course, remain welcomed – and the ingenuity of all those who have reinvented their teaching methods to offer their students original methods of distance learning. We all have, around us, extraordinary examples of inventiveness, commitment, imagination, to maintain the essential link between the master and the pupil, despite confinement. I want to leave as much flexibility as possible to the actors on the ground in this area. This is how school principals, parents, local authorities will find the best solutions together, with pragmatism. We will support them and I trust them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u14	You're off-loading...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u15	The crèches will also be reopened. It will be possible to accommodate groups of up to 10 children, with the possibility to accommodate several groups of 10 children if space permits and if conditions are in place for groups not to cross. This reduction in capacity will, at least initially, raise the issue of hospitality priorities. The crèches already cater for children according to economic and social criteria, which it is not for the State to define in place of managers. However, it seems to me that the impossibility of teleworking for an active couple or the difficulties encountered by single-parent families will have to be taken into account. Children of caregivers and teachers should also be given priority. The wearing of the general public mask will be mandatory for early childhood professionals, since the rules of physical distancing cannot be applied. Of course, children under three years of age should not wear masks. Defining must also allow economic life to resume. To do this, we need to reorganize working life. Telework must be maintained wherever possible, at least within the next three weeks. I urge companies to do so. We have measured the massive deployment since mid-March. No one is unaware of the constraints, but it must continue in order to limit the number of public transport users and contacts. There is not one before and one after May 11. For those who cannot telework, the practice of staggered hours in the company should be encouraged. It will spread the flows of employees in transport and reduce the simultaneous presence of employees in the same work space. As far as working conditions are concerned, we must amplify the approach taken by the professional federations and the Ministry of Labour to carry out guides and worksheets which accompany the necessary reorganizations within companies. Thirty-three guides are now available. It takes about sixty to cover all sectors. I asked the Minister of Labour to be ready for May 11. This approach is interesting because it is very concrete and involves the social partners. It must be applied in every company, in the form of new work organisation plans, with particular attention to the use of time, the actions of barriers and the organisation of work spaces. The wearing of the mask must be respected if the rules of distancing cannot be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u16	What about the tests?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u17	On Thursday I will discuss this with the workers' unions and the employers' representatives. Social dialogue at all levels must be mobilised to enable the return to work within a framework that guarantees the health and safety of employees. It's a mandatory condition. We will also discuss the accompanying measures for companies facing difficulties. The partial activity scheme, one of the most generous in Europe, will remain in place until 1 June. We will then have to adapt it gradually, in order to accompany the resumption of activity if the epidemic is controlled. Of course, we will continue to protect vulnerable people and the professional sectors that would remain closed. The shops will also reopen as of May 11. Currently, only some essential shops are open; From this date, all, except the cafes and restaurants, will be able to open. Markets, for which prohibition is now the rule and authorization the exception, will generally be allowed, unless mayors or prefects consider that they cannot be organized under conditions that allow for the observance of barrier gestures and physical distancing. Indeed, if the shops can reopen, each of them will have to respect a strict specification, limiting the number of people present at the same time in the store and organizing the flows, in order to ensure that the minimum distance of one metre without contact around each person is respected. Of course, he will have to ensure the protection of his staff. The wear of the general public mask will be recommended for staff and clients when physical distancing cannot be guaranteed. A merchant will be able to subordinate the access of his store to the wearing of the mask. I would add that the opening of shops will include an exception for shopping malls where the barge area exceeds the living pool, resulting in movements and contacts that we do not want to encourage. Prefects may decide not to allow the opening, except for the already open food sections, of shopping malls of more than 40,000 square metres which may cause such population movements. Finally, we will decide at the end of May whether bars, cafes and restaurants can open after 2 June. Transport decisions are particularly arduous. Urban transport is a key mechanism for economic recovery, but respect for physical distancing and barrier actions is very difficult. I measure the apprehension of many of our fellow citizens before taking a subway, a train, a bus, a tram, which are sometimes very densely occupied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u18	I confirm!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u19	We will make two sets of decisions. First of all, the supply of urban transport must be brought up to the maximum: 70% of RATP's supply will be available on 11 May and we will have to go back quickly to nominal supply. Secondly, demand must be reduced, by promoting teleworking, by spreading the timetables – as I have already said – and by asking the French to consider that transport at peak times should be reserved for those who work. I hope that in each region, in each agglomeration, consultation will take place very quickly between the transport organising authorities, the users and the transport operators in order to determine the precise conditions for the implementation of these objectives. Of course, the State will help. If it is necessary to organise the flows, to reserve transport at certain times for certain populations, we will accompany the organizing authorities. We'll try to do it together. But it is certain that the next three weeks will be difficult and that we must remain vigilant. The wearing of the mask will be made obligatory in all transports, metros as bus. And the operators will have to organize themselves, at least for the next three weeks, to allow, even in the metro, to respect the barrier gestures. This means, for example, that the capacity of the Parisian metro will be reduced by its nominal capacity, and extremely reduced by its normal use. It will be necessary to condemn one in two seats, to promote, by means of markings on the ground, the proper distribution on the docks, and to prepare to limit flows in the event of influence. School buses will be able to travel, but with the same one-by-two rule, with the obligation to wear the mask for drivers and for schoolchildren, from the college. The wearing of the mask will also be mandatory in taxis and VTCs that do not have a plexiglas protection system. With regard to inter-regional or inter-departmental displacement, the logic will be reversed: we want to reduce such displacements to imperative professional or family reasons alone, for obvious reasons of restricting the circulation of the virus. We will therefore continue to reduce the offer, to require compulsory reservation on all trains, whether or not TGV, and to discourage travel between departments. The Thursday of the Ascension will be a good holiday, but I make it clear to the French: this is not the time to leave his department to leave on weekends. Finally, definity is the return of social life. We all share the impatience of our fellow citizens to return to a social life. First of all, I have a thought for all our elders, who, in addition to confinement, suffer loneliness at home or isolation in EHPADs, who for long weeks have been deprived of any visits by their children and grandchildren. You know, we'll ask them to continue protecting themselves. They will have to respect rules similar to the confinement period, protecting themselves, limiting their contacts, thus their exits; All of this follows the principles of trust and responsibility, as announced by the President of the Republic. There will be no control, no exit certificate, but I ask the oldest and most fragile people of patience. Private visits, when they resume, will have to be surrounded by precaution, such as exits. By protecting yourself, you protect the most fragile hospital system of us. Social life will therefore also gradually resume. Let us first mention what it will be possible to do: it will again be possible to move freely, without attestation, except, as I said, for travel more than 100 kilometres from home, which will only be possible for an imperative, family or professional reason. It will be possible, on good days helping, to practice an individual sports activity in the open air, obviously exceeding the current barrier of the kilometer and respecting the rules of physical distancing. It will not be possible to practice sport in indoor areas, or to practice group or contact sports. Parks and gardens, so essential to the balance of life in the city, will be able to open only in departments where the virus does not circulate actively, the famous "green departments". As a precautionary measure, beaches will remain inaccessible to the public, at least until 1 June. As far as cultural activities are concerned, because they can function more easily by respecting health rules, the media libraries, libraries and small museums, so important for the cultural life of our territories, will be able to reopen their doors on 11 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u20	What about the coffees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u21	On the other hand, large museums, which attract a large number of visitors outside their living areas, cinemas, theatres and concert halls, where one remains in the same place in a closed environment, will not be able to reopen. The parties and multi-purpose rooms will also remain closed until 2 June. In order to give visibility to the organizers of events, I would point out that major sporting or cultural events – including festivals –, major trade fairs and all events which bring together more than 5000 participants and are the subject of a declaration in prefecture, events which must be organised long in advance, will not be held until September. The 2019-2020 season of professional sport, especially football, will not be able to resume. As for places of worship, I know the impatience of religious communities and places of worship may remain open. But I think it is legitimate to ask them not to hold a ceremony before the June 2 barrier. Funeral ceremonies will obviously remain authorized, as today, within the limit of twenty people. I am fully aware of the burden that this represents and the difficulty of applying this rule for deaths, but it is formulated, in France as in other countries, in order to protect the living. Cemeteries will again be open to the public on May 11. While waiting for better days, the town halls will continue to propose, unless urgent, the postponement of marriages. In general, we must avoid gatherings that are opportunities for the spread of the virus. Gatherings on public roads or in private places will therefore be limited to ten people. These rules of social life may seem complicated. They may seem harsh to some, and too lax to others. In essence, what I am proposing to restore is a regime of freedom in which we must set exceptions. These rules are binding, it is true, but I count on the civicism of our compatriots to apply them rigorously. It's about our health to all of us. We have certainly forgotten certain points, formulated in a uncertain way certain rules, omitted to foresee, in a particular territory, a possible adaptation. It's the whole point of the phase that's opening. It is a matter of enriching this plan together, with the elected representatives, with the field administrations, with the social partners, with all the French, to be ready on 11 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u22	Maybe with the parliamentarians too, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u23	These efforts are not in vain, and they will allow us, I hope, to consider the summer period under better auspices. I already give an appointment to the French at the end of May to assess the conditions under which we will organise the new phase of deconfinement and, in particular, make decisions concerning the organisation of cafes, restaurants and holidays. It's too early to do it. The strategy that I have just presented, this de-confinination plan, whose general architecture was approved by the Defence Council under the chairmanship of the Head of State, is not a piece of legislation. It will require regulatory or individual decisions taken by ministers, prefects or local executive presidents within the scope of their powers. On a few issues, it will have to be accompanied by legislation that does not exist today, and that will be lacking. I will take two examples. To trace the contacts, to go back to those who have crossed the path of a patient, we will probably need additional staff to strengthen the teams of doctors – I say "arguably", but that is certain. I mentioned earlier the support of people in the health insurance system; In these brigades, it may be possible to accommodate CCIS staff, town halls, departments, or staff made available by associations such as the Red Cross. Once again, it will be up to the local teams to set up these brigades, but it is certain that they will not only be made up of doctors. It will therefore be necessary for the law to allow such persons to participate in epidemiological investigations for which access to medical data is necessary. Another example is the limitation of travel between regions or between departments. In the period of confinement, it was possible to limit such movements within the general framework of the Act of 23 March. This will no longer be possible once containment has been lifted. If we want to prevent the spread of the virus from accelerating in previously preserved areas, we will have to limit the possibility of moving, at least initially. On these two issues, and on a few others, it will therefore be necessary to legislate. I will shortly propose to Parliament to adopt a law which, in addition to extending the state of health emergency beyond 23 May – perhaps until 23 July – will authorize the necessary measures to accompany the deconfination. This draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration next Saturday and to the Senate and the National Assembly next week. [[Murmures]] In order to set out this national strategy, the Government has chosen to use the provisions of article 50 (1) of the Constitution. Nothing in our Constitution required the Government to present to the National Assembly the strategy I have just outlined. We can – and we should – deplore this, and think that tomorrow, perhaps, we will have to correct this defect. But our institutions are doing so: it would have been possible for the Government to make this presentation at a television news or a press conference. And recognize that this has already been done,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u25	... many times, and under all the governments of the Fifth Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have chosen to reserve these announcements to the National Assembly and, beyond these announcements, the capacity to react, to criticize, of course, to question the Government in this regard, which, as I have already indicated, is intended to be supplemented by local authorities and trade union and employers' organizations. Finally, each Member will have the opportunity, through the vote, to state his or her position on the strategy I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u26	That's the minimum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u27	You're so good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u28	My lord! It's amazing! You had to dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This choice is based on several reasons. The first is the obviously prominent place of this Assembly in our democracy. Needless to say a lot about a conviction that we all share: in these times of media democracy, not very social networks but very angry, of immediate nervousness, it is undoubtedly useful to recall that the representatives of the people sit, deliberate and decide on all matters of national interest. I stress – and in doing so, I consider that there is only the expression of a duty and, in no way, of a favour – that the government that I have the honour to lead has systematically and obviously responded to all the requests of Members and their committees on the crisis that we are experiencing. During confinement, the fact-finding mission, standing committees and questions to the Government continued, and that was so much better, as the Government needed them. As we have committed ourselves to it, we communicate every week to the Assembly and the Senate all the decisions that are taken in the context of the state of health emergency, including those that do not fall within the legislative sphere. In the face of the decisions that we have to take and that we will still have to take, Parliament's control is not a burden, it is an opportunity. To say here rather than elsewhere what I have just said responds to the Government's desire to show that, despite the state of health emergency, despite the obvious difficulties in carrying out its mandates in a period of confinement, parliamentary democracy remains alive, demanding, sometimes noisy, but still indispensable. The second reason is that we believe it is necessary to allow each Member, whether he is present in the Chamber or following the debates remotely, to decide on this strategy, to say whether he approves and supports it, to say whether he contests and rejects it, or to say whether he abstains; but to take a position, in responsibility, as it is for the representatives of the nation who cannot, who do not want and who must not be relegated to the rank of commentators of political life. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Laughs]] [[Smile]] I have been struck, since the beginning of this crisis, by the number of commentators having a perfectly clear view of what they would have had to do at every moment. Modernity has often moved them from commercial coffee to certain television sets. The audience curves gain what the conviviality of bistros loses, but it does not grow, I fear, the public debate. No, Members do not comment, they vote and, in doing so, they take political positions. It is your honour, it is your mission and this is what I invite you to do after the debate that follows this statement. Ladies and gentlemen, France is going through one of those times when those who love and serve it must live up to it. We must protect the French without immobilizing France to the point that it would collapse. It's a delicate ridge line that we need to follow. A little too careless and the epidemic is starting again; A little too cautious and it is the whole country that is sinking. The strategy I have just outlined is to allow us to hold this ridge. It's based on choices I just introduced. It is based on the determined action of the Government and the State, under the authority of the President of the Republic. It is based on the trust we place in local and regional authorities, economic and social actors and associations. It is also based, and in essence, above all, on the French, on our fellow citizens, on their civicism and discipline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u31	No plan, however ambitious, will be able to stem this epidemic if the French do not believe in it or apply it, if the viral chain is not replaced by a chain of solidarity. From 11 May, success will be based not on the sole authority of the state but on the civicism of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u32	Yes! This is called democratic consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u33	In July 2017, under very different circumstances, but in this same forum, on the occasion of my first statement of general policy, I had evoked this ancient quality in which the Romans drew their strength: virtue, which combines correctness, honesty and courage. I was far from imagining how essential this quality would be in the coming weeks to prepare our future, the future of our children, the future of France. (Mrs. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length. – Mrs Sophie Auconie and Laure de La Raudière also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u34	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u35	The meeting was resumed. I remind you that the vote on the Government's statement will take place by show of hands, as we usually do at this time of crisis. The representatives of the groups shall have the votes of the members of their group, but each of them may adopt a different position and inform his group or the service of the meeting until 18.30. This will also apply to non-attached Members. I would also point out that the speakers in this debate will be able to speak from the rostrum. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u36	The French have never been so worried. This global catastrophe, which affects millions of human beings, must lead us not only to provide immediate answers, but also to change the way we operate that is cracking on all sides – starting with decision-making methods and a type of development that send us straight into the wall. We must at the same time get out of this long and unpredictable crisis, and avoid the future, predictable but still preventable. The French are afraid; Some live in extreme punishments, others are exhausted: they must be given hope. Every decision taken must be thought of both to resolve the urgency, to repair the present and to prepare for the future: it is essential if we are to recreate lost confidence, take effective action and learn from the current period. If a crisis is still a great threat, it is also always an opportunity to seize. Prime Minister, the French are no longer following you. They are not fooled: the vast majority of them have adopted exemplary behaviour, they have seen well what was working or what was not working. Given the lack of transparency, the lack of listening and sometimes disconcerting decision-making methods, their reaction is severe. They praised the dedication of some of them, so many people mobilized, harassed who, at the risk of their lives, saved the lives of others and who will never be forgotten. What a wonderful meaning to give to our existences! But beyond our gratitude, these people are now waiting for action: it is time to announce real salary increases for this staff. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] The disaster must lead us to restore colors to our republican motto: freedom, respect for public, individual and fundamental freedoms, equality in dignity and fraternity. Brothers and sisters of our beautiful and beautiful country, France, 300,000 of us live undocumented: how can you leave them in such inhuman health and social situations? Beyond that, millions are suffering. It is time to act and give a roof to all, and to those who do not, a decent income. It is our duty not to forget anyone and to take into account everyone's situation, starting with the most fragile, for which the health, social and economic crisis has dramatic effects. The French are debunked and the cacophony at the highest level of the state has only increased anxiety and anxiety. Too many drafts have been presented to them! The shortage of masks, breathers and tests, and the contradictory announcements have demonstrated the total absence of anticipation of the state, which, strategically and logistically, always reacts with a train of delay – the group Libertés et territoires, through the voice of François-Michel Lambert, has often alerted you about it. There are many who refer to Marc Bloch's book L'Etrange Défaite, and no one ignores the disastrous dysfunctions of the central state. The extreme bureaucratization that is gangreneous to our country is not new, it is time to remedy it: a new act of decentralization must be undertaken and the territories freed. How do you want everything to work well when it's the same who decides everything? The announcements of the President of the Republic regarding the date of the de-confinement were the most striking example of this: a President who alone decides on the date of 11 May, ministers in the care of you who execute, then hold embarrassed statements to go back, before being denied by the leader. And I'm not talking about scientific advice... How, in such a mess, do you want to train all our fellow citizens? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Why didn't you want to share decision-making when it was difficult? And why divest the counter-powers? The legislative power has been disbanded by the use of ordinances, the legal power has been deported through the Constitutional Council, the media power has been removed from any question in the statements of the President of the Republic. Local and regional authorities manage alone or, worse, are sometimes hampered by the state. Professional organizations and civil society are rumbling. The decision to close and then reopen schools could have been made in close connection with the parents of students, local authorities and teachers, but you did not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u37	You had to listen to the speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u38	Today, it would be more rational to reopen it only in September. Sometimes it would have been so simple for the executive to co-build and unite synergies, rather than enforce what had been decided in the ministries. Yes, you have gathered; No, you didn't listen. "If you want to build a boat, don't bring your men and women together to give them orders, to explain every detail, to tell them where to find everything... If you want to build a boat, create in the hearts of your men and women the desire for the sea," writes Saint-Exupéry. Let us apply this maxim now, before our common boat turns into a raft of La Méduse. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The French are finally waiting, Prime Minister, for you to decide after you have joined, and not to have to listen to you after you have decided. We need to put ourselves in the right position once and for all that we need to work together. The more complex the issues, the more decisions must be made collectively. How to believe that the conditions for an exit from the crisis are met until sufficient masks are available, until agreement has been reached with the communities or companies on the distribution of roles, on purchases, on volumes, on calendars, and when there has been so much cacophony in recent weeks! When it is the Greater East Regional Council that has to buy masks to protect the agents of its competence – economy, education, transportation – and to give 2 million masks to the regional health services that depend on the state, look for error! When the municipalities don't know what type of equipment they need and how much because they don't know when the public services will reopen, look again for the mistake! Fortunately, local authorities have not waited to remedy the state's shortcomings in the provision of equipment and to set up economic support funds throughout France. They were very reactive and agile, they were able to unite, but the French and French were meducated by all this. They are waiting for you to inform them in full transparency, so as not to add confusion to confusion, from fears to fears. We need collective mobilization to manage the crisis, the continuation of containment, its collective lifting and the essential resumption of activity. We are still waiting for the purchase orders for the masks I asked for and the traceability of their delivery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u39	You have to listen to the Prime Minister when he talks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u40	We are still waiting for an estimate of the number of people infected by contacts in medical homes and the number of deaths actually due to Covid-19, those at home included, after too long to know their number in EHPADs. To inform with transparency, to listen, to decide collectively should be the basis of any public policy. It's the key to success that will allow us to enter a new world that you haven't actually found yet. These principles have never inspired your policy, Prime Minister. Yet there have been so many warnings inviting you to do so. It was the unambiguous teaching of the yellow vest crisis or the challenge of pensions: to be transparent in decision-making, to decentralize them, to share them and to give meaning to our public policies. It is really a shame that this major crisis has not been an opportunity for you to change. You, Prime Minister, have lost the battle of public opinion, but it is never too late to do well and not to aggravate the other gigantic crises, health, social, economic and ecological announced. We must now anticipate the even more devastating crises ahead of us. Our children look at us, their big eyes full of hope and dream. Our elders, who know what the word war really means, know what we've succeeded and what we've missed. Our fellow citizens know what we owe to our history, to our struggles for freedom, to our culture: entire generations have enriched our country. They worked hard believing that we were one of the cradles of civilization. Everyone knows it's time to break with our bad habits and comforts. It is for them that we fight, so that they are finally happy and proud of our beautiful country, France. [["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] You ask us to give you letus: we ask you to preserve hope. Trust is one of the major conditions for successful exit from the crisis. However, the conditions for the preparation of the plan of deconfinement and this vote in the Assembly in haste have exacerbated the mistrust.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u41	It's true we have all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u42	You will understand that, unfortunately, we cannot trust you. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] Many swallows are announcing spring, Prime Minister. Do not constantly try to put them in cages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u43	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u44	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u45	We will not vote in favour of what is proposed to us, not because of your person, Prime Minister, or even because of the idea that we are making of your action – we are sure that you are doing the best – but because we do not share your diagnoses or the system of action that you have chosen. It is clear that you are today the scapegoat of comfort for all kinds of people, and first of all in your own majority. This is not our state of mind: our state of mind is to discuss the contents, the facts in a rational way because we believe that this is the reason that can draw us from the difficulties in which the homeland is struggling. You are not, moreover, the front line responsible for misdiagnosis. On the front line, how to forget that on January 24 Agnès Buzyn, of sad memory for the public hospital, said about the epidemic: "The risk of importing cases from Wuhan is moderate. He's been pretty bad since the city was isolated. The risk of secondary cases around an imported case is very low and the risk of spread of coronavirus as well. He could be held responsible for this statement and for the statement she claimed to have informed you of the danger, which is not evident in the one I have just quoted. But how then to understand that, March 3rd – March 3rd! –, the President of the Republic states: "It is still too early to say whether France will move to the stage of the epidemic. » As for masks, everyone now agrees that they are indispensable and are in some way part of the basic barrier instruments. You are right to say, Prime Minister, that you will have to carry them on public transport, but there is no point in telling people that you should not take the metro for fun, because there are very few people who are in this case! I invite you to see how it's going on line 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u47	People do what they do because they have to, not because they're unreasonable. However, on 13 April, Mr. Macron stated: "I refuse today to recommend the wearing of the mask by all and the Government has never done so. If we recommended it, it would be incomprehensible" – April 13th! Let's go to the tests: whereas, as early as 15 March, the WHO recommended "test, test, test", formula repeated by others after we were told in this Chamber that it was useless, President Macron said on 23 April: "We are not going to test all French and French: it would not make sense. » The confinement, finally, acquired of high struggle, after how many efforts of conviction: the President, again, went to the theatre on 6 March and declared at the exit: "Life continues; There is no reason, except for vulnerable populations, to change our patterns of exit. This is the state of mind in which this terrible crisis has been addressed by those who command. Orders and counter-orders have followed each other, so much so that the fundamental spring of the struggle has broken: trust, for in democracy there is no consent to authority without confidence in the legitimacy of the instructions. But trust is dead. [[Smile]] I am not sure, Mr Prime Minister, that you should be held responsible, but the one who has taken all these decisions and made these statements when he occupies the most eminent place in the Republic is undoubtedly. I run the risk of this criticism despite the threats he made against those who planned to criticize him. Indeed, on 31 March, President Macron said: "When this crisis is over, we will all have to account, all without exception, the majority of course" – I think it is for you, Prime Minister, and it is normal: you know how you treat a right-wing daily that was so far favorable to you – "but also," said President Macron, "all those who at times have played a dangerous game to destabilize the country in a time when unity prevailed. » For our part, we have never played any dangerous game...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u48	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u49	...or anyone on these benches: we have simply played the game of democracy, which consists of expressing, by showing a sense of responsibility and more measure than you think, the necessary warnings and, if you do not believe in it, then you cannot believe in democracy one day, because the essence of democracy is precisely to agree to hear unpleasant things from people who do not believe in you. Now, after a calamitous management, we have come to a dangerous exit. On 30 March, in a common forum, all the unsubstantiated parliamentarians told you that it was time to talk about deconfinement, and while some commentators, considering the French people as a noisy assembly of unstable young people, said that the word should not be spoken for fear that people would conclude that they could leave their homes and go to party. As if this people had not done, on the contrary, the demonstration, in the midst of all these orders and counter-orders, of a magnificent and terrible discipline, which must be given thanks to them, even though so many times it has been pointed out by these same commentators. We must plan and not believe that the free market and the free play of individuals will suffice for the necessary conditions to be met for this 11 May to be something other than an adventure. Moreover, the careful observers will have noticed that the President of the Republic alone took this decision, without taking into account the Government, the National Assembly, or the scientific council which he himself appointed, and we have heard the Prime Minister tell us, with the delicacy shown at this time, that he himself is not sure that the confinement will be lifted on 11 May and that certain conditions could prompt him to decide otherwise. Good thing you say that, Prime Minister, because otherwise we would be very afraid. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Regrettably, it is possible that the defunction could not take place on 11 May. We know from the beginning that deconfining is indispensable, but still we have to prepare it with all the necessary seriousness. Now is the time for odious injunctions. Will the children be obliged to go to school on 11 May or will it be done on a voluntary basis, as your Minister of National Education said? You have not been specific on this point, Prime Minister. This uncertainty is anxiogenic for millions of families who wonder what they should do. How can parents be asked to assess the risk of exposing their children to danger? That's horrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u50	Yes, what a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u51	They don't know what to do, good people, especially when their decision isn't free, because they're told it's time to go back to work. That's why we start with the smaller ones: because they're not able to keep themselves while the bigger ones can. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] As far as teachers are concerned, is it not odious to balance their professional conscience, their attachment to the children they educate, with the assessment of the risk to which they are exposed, them and their families? That's what I call odious injunctions. It is the same for workers who will go to their workplace without guarantee to have a mask to protect themselves and without having, as it is your responsibility to do, ordered, and not suggested, that they may hold health safety meetings in their workplaces to control the health conditions of production. [[Smile]] Now, Prime Minister, I am surprised that as many people in your own camp want to take your place: a second epidemic wave is inevitable, and it will be all the more violent as the conditions for exiting the deconfination have not been met. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There will not be enough masks, allowing each person to have one that is effective without costing him or her a euro, because it is his or her own survival. If we find 3 billion euros for Air France, we can find the same ones to give masks to all the French. [[Comments on the benches of the LaREM group]] There won't be enough tests. There will not be enough space for quarantine accommodation that would require requisitions in the hotel sector. We would also have to requisition the entire textile industry to produce the masks we need, as Morocco does, a country that we should imitate in this field because it achieves this performance. Morocco is very good, it's my native country. I think he deserves your admiration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u52	While you are there, you should shout "Long live the king"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u53	The Members of the La France insoumée group had prepared a plan, Prime Minister, to submit it to you and to discuss it with you during a discussion scheduled for 5 May. We do not have the means you have, which are those of the State, and that is normal. Finally, we had to publish this plan even though the planned meeting is no longer possible. You know the principles, which I recalled. Planning must be not only for needs, but also for means. You spoke of the Great War in every tone. During the Great War, it was decided to apply a moratorium on rents. Do it! During the Great War, it was decided to create a tax on war profiters. Do it! [[Mathilde Panot and Marie-George Buffet applaud]] Elected by people in popular circles, like others here, I want you to hear this word at all costs: hunger threatens in some neighborhoods in France. It is thanks to the admirable and spontaneous organization of the inhabitants that this hunger does no more damage among us, even if it works the masses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u54	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u55	I'm done. We are living a global event. First ecological, it became biological, then economic. It will become social, with millions of unemployed, and, finally, it will be a political event. We will not escape this chaining. May the homeland that has just rediscovered the value of the words sovereignty, independence, relocation, public service...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u57	I'm done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u58	[[Smile]] You're finishing us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs George Pau Langevin also applauds]] I was hoping to get at least some serious attention. During a health crisis, popular mobilization is the key. As always, the people are not the problem, but the solution. He's got to trust me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u60	You didn't even make any proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u61	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u62	After inviting us to debate this afternoon on an application that does not exist, you are inviting us to a sloppy debate on a plan of definity that parliamentarians have not had the opportunity to discover or amend. In fact, you don't even want an opinion, you want confidence. But you are less confident than ever. If the magnitude and suddenness of this health crisis has long led us to repress our criticisms, it is not enough to explain the total unpreparation and hesitation of your government. I am talking about unpreparation, because the risk of a highly pathogenic and lethal pandemic has long been known. You did not listen to multiple warnings such as those of the WHO and the World Bank, which last September urged nations to "establish the systems and collaboration needed to detect and combat potential epidemic outbreaks." Their report concluded: "Managers at all levels have the cards in hand. » What were you doing when these recommendations were published? What were you doing when health workers, emergency workers and hospital heads of the country had been begging you for months to unlock the resources that were lacking? Nothing, because you were too busy "upgrading" our health care system, which in your language is synonymous with "degrading". What we have before us is not only the result of an impreparation, it is also a cold project that others have undertaken before you, but which you have strenuously pursued: 4.2 billion euros less for health in the budget for 2020, of which 1 billion at the expense of the public hospital; 100,000 beds have been abolished in 20 years, of which 17500 have been abolished for six years. In application of the dogma of free enterprise and the idea of a factoryless France, you have accepted the move of our industry to the four corners of the world and conscientiously pursued the weakening of our capacity to produce, within reach of patients and within reach of caregivers, which is indispensable for care: painkillers, antibiotics, resuscitation equipment, protections. After you've degraded, you're paddling. You stifle by multiplying contradictory statements and decisions, confidently set aside and immediately denied by the facts or by one of your own. There is no risk of spread of the virus since Wuhan, explained the Minister of Health at the end of January, while alerting the Prime Minister, it seems, to the seriousness of the pandemic. There is no need to systematically detect: this was the doctrine you defended against WHO's advice and the results obtained in other countries. At the same time as you were inviting the French to stay at home, your Minister of Labour urged that the construction sites be reopened in the building. You also stifled the masks by deploying an irresponsible argument about their futility to hide the shortage. Your doctrine is simple: what is lacking is not indispensable. And last week, we learned, meducated, that 8500 of the 10000 respirators ordered are not suitable for the patients of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u64	And he knows it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u65	How do you want the French to trust you? The building of your managerial methods, built on the sand of your liberal imagination, has completely collapsed. Yet we are convinced that all the French, all the forces of the country, especially its social and political forces, including ours, are ready to roll up their sleeves and get around the table. I have the demonstration every day in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis where the method that prevails is that of joint efforts and the search for consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u67	Instead of making this choice of unity, you remain tense about your liberal dogma, which pushes you towards authoritarian methods. As a result, you invite us to discuss on a corner of the table a plan of deconfinement and an application that seems promised to the same destiny since, on this last subject too, we continue to talk in the wave. Prime Minister, when a building is in flames and there are no fire spears, ladders, or even enough firefighters, there is no question as to whether a mobile application should be launched to warn firefighters. This is all the less so as such a technological tracing device dangerously affects our republican values and undoubtedly threatens our freedoms, if not our sovereignty. Moreover, it makes no sense if it does not complement a solid global response, the one that we would have liked to have contributed to drawing up on the many proposals that we have built in recent weeks with my communist colleagues, in connection with our network of local elected representatives, associations and trade union organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to get out of the vagueness of the speeches of the President of the Republic. By letting the judge know that a deconfination would take place on 11 May, without having been concerned about whether or not it was possible and under what conditions, the President of the Republic was not the last to have contributed to sowing the trouble, despite words sometimes martial, sometimes mellow. For many families who aspire to the resumption of school for their children, the choice of this date of May 11 seems to meet an essentially economic objective – the return to work of the employees – and not a time when all precautions are taken, it would be possible to reopen the schools in adapted health conditions. The disorder became stronger when the Minister of National Education indicated that this recovery was left to the parents' free choice while, in our country, since Jules Ferry, school is compulsory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u68	Education is compulsory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u69	Many employees will not have this choice, which can lead to a strengthening of the idea of double standards, to make parents feel guilty and to deepen the social and educational inequalities that this crisis has sharpened. Despite all the good will and the investment of teachers, this recovery of May 11 will not be a return to school. As early as September, a massive catch-up plan will be needed, including incorporating what could have been learned during this period into future programmes, in order not to endorse school inequalities. It is also necessary to get out of the blurry on the most essential points of a deconfining plan. The State must guarantee the right to free masks for the entire population before making them compulsory, for example, in public transport. In this regard, I have a thought for the users of my constituency who use line 13 of the metro, renamed "the line of hell". There is also a need to place massive and regular tests at the disposal of the population in order to allow for the follow-up of people tested positive at the Covid-19. As for the resumption of activity in an undertaking, it must be subject to the expertise and approval of its Economic and Social Committee. In these circumstances, we would be available to listen to the variations of the President of the Republic around France, statements which were immediately contradicted by your first decisions. Every night the country applauds its caregivers, its paramedics, its firefighters. From the perspective of France after, it would have been necessary to grant finally and lastingly, from your draft law on amending finance, the means that the public hospital so much needs to ensure that its proper functioning is no longer based on the only exceptional dedication of its staff. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Some suddenly discover France from the invisible, these employees who supply us, transport us and collect our waste, thus keeping the country standing. In order to build France after that, it would already be necessary to force companies that chipotent and reluctant to pay the promised premium to employees on the second line. Above all, the SMIC should be increased and a conference on wage increases should be convened to finally recognize the real economic and social contribution of these workers from the shadows. The labour market seems unable to translate this recognition into fair remuneration while, at the same time, the amount of dividends is breaking record, year after year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u70	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u71	The President of the Republic said he was prepared to question his own certainties, but there was no evidence of that awareness in his actions. Building France after that does not consist of continuing to distribute cheques without consideration to large companies, as you have just done for Air France. On the contrary, aid should be conditional on a reorientation of the economy assessed on the basis of social and environmental performance, and should not exclude the principle of nationalisation allowing the return of public control to the service of the ecological transition. Building France after that does not involve granting ever more discretionary powers to employers to derogate from working time or Sunday rest. On the contrary, it would be necessary to give back power to the employees, for example, the one you have taken away from them to weigh on the health conditions of work by abolishing the health, safety and working conditions committees – CHSCT. To build the next France, you should take up the proposal of the Communist parliamentarians, which you rejected: to refuse aid and loans to companies that have assets in tax havens. You should also restore the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – a symbol of everyone's effort for national solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the SOC and FI groups]] Prime Minister, when our nation faces such a serious crisis, parliamentary debate and democracy are not confined. Faced with this terrible ordeal, we were available to work to build, in national solidarity, a solution to this crisis. Instead of building the common fight and bringing the country together, you chose to ride alone. We deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u72	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u73	From 11 May, France will have to succeed the impossible: to resume life without endangering that of the French. The first universal health crisis in today's era is home to all countries in the same way and abolishes the immense differences that distinguish them. Previously, absolutely none of them had realized what we are invited to do: restarting the activity while the health threat that had forced him to stop remains intact and while the coronavirus that mourns hundreds of our families and loved ones every day has delivered only part of his sinister secrets. The magnitude of the task justifies the debate that brings us together and that you have chosen to organise, Prime Minister – which no other government in a large European country has done. It also gives him a solemnity that does not escape anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u74	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u75	You have decided, since the beginning of the crisis, to observe with Parliament the same principles of truth and transparency as with our citizens. In fact, we are addressing them today. Everywhere in our constituencies, in the last few hours, in countless messages, the French have warned us that they will be very numerous, at this moment, to look at us and listen to us. Their hopes, mixed with anxiety, in the outcome that we will be able to propose to them to get out of the test, oblige us all, those who are sitting here in this Chamber, but also those who cannot be present for health reasons and whom I would like to greet. Our colleagues Eric Bothorel, Camille Galliard-Minier and Cécile Rilhac will come back in detail on three essential aspects of the strategy you have just outlined – health logistics, the economy, the school – and on the very concrete conditions for its implementation. For my part, I would like to stress the political stakes which the working Republic Group identifies as crucial for the success of the deconfinement. Defining is not yet the next, as impatients would like to let him believe, but it is the condition for this after to happen as soon as possible. And with him will come both the reparation and the re-foundation of our country, in which the President of the Republic called on our fellow citizens to project himself in his last speech. Defining is in a way the laboratory of the next. Let him succeed, and everything becomes possible again: France will regain the right of hope. Whether it fails in whole or in part, and our chances would distance us from erasing the stigma of this shock of unprecedented violence. In reality, deconfining is a twofold challenge: a challenge for the French and a challenge for our democracy. For the French, this is the challenge of responsibility. "Nothing is lonely, everything is solidary," wrote Victor Hugo. This is the apparent paradox of confinement and perhaps the only benefit of this crisis: today more than ever, while tens of millions of French are confined, we measure the priceless value of the human bond and our need for society. For the past two months, solidarity, large or small, spectacular or discreet, organized or spontaneous, has awakened a capital of generosity, a capacity for resilience, a desire for meaning in our country. These have always existed, but the unbridled race of existence and belief in eternal progress all too often deprived us of expressing them with all their strength. The brutally stopped race and the progress seriously challenged, we are forced to revisit the essentials: the conditions of our survival and the values that unite us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] The French succeeded in containment; They are determined to succeed in deconfinity. They accept the risks provided they are controlled. By partially sacrificing their freedom, they have made it possible to drastically slow down the speed of the virus's circulation and avoid – but by so little! – saturation of our hospitals. At the prize, it is true, the admirable dedication and professionalism of our caregivers, to whom we pay a unanimous tribute here. Confinement was a demanding discipline, but finally quite simple: with exceptions, essential, to care for the French or to ensure their daily lives, we were all invited to stay at home. Defining will be otherwise complex. Its success is based on individual responsibility. In the absence of a cure and vaccine, each of us becomes the only effective antiviral agent against a second wave of the epidemic, which would probably be even more devastating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u76	We don't understand anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u77	The law enforcement agencies ensured that the rules of confinement were respected. We ourselves become the guarantors of our own prophylactic behaviour,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u78	Very subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u79	... in all the acts of our family, professional life, in our travels, at home, at the factory, at the office, at the shops, at the school. Terrible responsibility, if you think about it, which explains the legitimate concerns of our fellow citizens and which calls for a profoundly different way of governing. This is the second challenge, the challenge for democracy: that of harmony and overcoming. We will only achieve the deconfinity brought together and united, knowing how to recreate the indispensable confidence in public action. What will be worth in the coming weeks and months will be worth even more in the long term to engage all of our country's forces in its reconstruction. Let us not be mistaken: the answers of deconfinement are still those of urgency, but the horizon that we must draw today is that of long time, to restart the economy, to create new solidarity and to accelerate the ecological transition. This is the challenge of your government, Prime Minister, and of our majority. But it is also the responsibility of all the political leaders in our country. In the painful circumstances that we are going through, the French, to whom we are asking for efforts and sacrifices, would not understand that their elected officials do not store the revo...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u80	The revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u81	... pardon, the reinvention of their own rites and practices, that they do not give up sterile polemics, that they do not gather on the essentials, that they do not always make the compromise prevail over the confrontation. This applies to all of us! The consultation that you have established since the beginning of the crisis with the political forces, local elected representatives, the social partners and the world of associations must become the cornerstone of this new republican pact which the French, in the vast majority, call for. The method adopted for the deconfining strategy is in line with this logic, and we wholeheartedly welcome it. This debate in Parliament which you wanted and which the President of our House has supported with the strength we know it is not an end; It's a start! As you said, adapting the national strategy to local realities of all kinds – health, economics, schools, etc. – is a sine qua non for its success. To entrust this mission to the mayors, certainly the best able to understand its specificities, is the right choice, provided that these actors of the "Daily Republic", according to the expression of the Head of State, and the prefects know how to train all the actors of the basins of life: deconcentrated services of the State and decentralized services, economic actors and actors of the world of associations, especially those who act to protect the most fragile populations, simple citizens, first among which the parents of pupils. You will not be surprised, but Members also want to take their full part in the plan of deconfinement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Prime Minister, you wanted your statement to be followed by a vote, a prerogative that you are constitutionally recognized. As Stanislas Guerini, General Delegate of the Republic on the move, will explain earlier, our group will endorse this statement, with the seriousness and determination of the challenges you are proposing to meet with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u82	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u83	[[Applause on all benches]] The coronavirus epidemic is shaking our country like no doubt it has not been shaken in peacetime during its recent history. This terrible virus caused more than 22,000 deaths in France. Right now, I'm thinking about their families and their loved ones. On behalf of the Members of the Republicans Group and of the entire national representation, I want to pay tribute to the admirable work, courage and dedication of our caregivers, who play an absolutely decisive role in stemring the epidemic and saving a very large number of lives. This epidemic has plunged us into an unprecedented health crisis and into an economic crisis of unprecedented magnitude, affecting us collectively and putting each and every one of us before his or her responsibilities. The Republicans want more than anything else that France is at the rendezvous of history and capable of going out from the top of the marasm, avoiding lasting sinking into recession, fear and torpor. The French are waiting for it; the situation demands it. In the face of such a health crisis, we have chosen a responsible, demanding and useful opposition to the country. We are not here to participate in a decibel contest with the other opposition groups, but to mark our difference: with them as with the Government, both in form and in substance. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In terms of form, Prime Minister, you will notice that you have had an advantage over us: you have had seventy-two hours to read our plan of definity when you have left us just three hours to examine yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u84	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u85	I do not understand this excess of rigidity, especially since neither the President of the Republic nor any part of your majority seems to approve of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u86	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u87	Why didn't you give Parliament 24 hours to look at the deconfining plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u88	The majority is divided!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u89	Why such a unilateral decision? You invoke the urgency of the situation, but the argument is misleading. Voting the text today or tomorrow would in no way delay the operational implementation of the decoupling plan as this plan is to be presented next week in the Senate and will only come into force on May 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u91	We deplore this culpability and we do not understand your stubbornness, which will have a major political cost: you will rob the opposition at a time when France needs gathering and serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u92	The French also do not understand...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u93	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] It is curious that the President of the Republic calls for national unity when, at the same time, the Prime Minister sits on Parliament and democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u95	As far as digital tracing is concerned, given the questions it raises regarding public and individual freedoms and the doubts that exist about its practical feasibility, we welcome your decision to finally devote a specific debate and vote to it. With regard to the deconfinement plan itself – we have listened carefully to your statement – we fear that it will result in a low cost deconfinity and that its operational implementation will be particularly difficult. In particular, we warn about the risk of variable protection deconfinement. Let me get back to the masks and the tests for a moment. The mandatory wearing of the mask in public transport is certainly a step forward, but there is still an exception in the public sphere, where the recommendation continues to prevail over the obligation. As far as the tests are concerned, I have noted what the objective was, but how will you achieve it given the difficulties that exist in France in deploying a massive screening strategy? We also highlight the risk of a piecemeal and deferred deconfinement. I'm thinking about cafes, hotels and restaurants, but also what you just said about schools and the StopCovid digital app. We understood, listening to you, that the deconfinement would not be on May 11: it will be on the 11th, but... with many constraints! When it is not simply postponed to June 2. We identify four major flaws in the Government's deconfinition plan. They concern protections, schools, security and the economy. As far as protections, masks and tests are concerned, they must be at the heart of the deconfining strategy. The glaring lack of masks, tests and resuscitation beds will remain an indelible stain, a sad symbol of the often chaotic management of the epidemic. Unfortunately, this shortage of equipment has led to conflicting injunctions, particularly regarding the effectiveness of wearing the mask. Members of the Republican Group demand that it be made compulsory at least in public transport, but also in large areas or even in public space. As far as testing is concerned, we have been advocating from the outset for a massive and systematic screening strategy. In Germany, there are five times more tests than in our home, and five times fewer deaths.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u96	Oh, that's enough with the Germans! Europe doesn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u97	If the Government is not in a position to provide the country with enough masks and tests, France is heading straight for a second epidemic wave, the consequences of which will be catastrophic. As far as schools are concerned, Annie Genevard will develop our position. I would simply say that the free choice left to the families follows the postponement of the resumption of the courses by the high school students, yet more able to respect the gestures of barriers than the pupils of the nursery and elementary schools. For our part, we propose a strategy of taking over German, based on the massive testing of teachers and the daily temperature intake of students before they enter the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u98	But it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u99	On the subject of school canteens, I have not heard anything, while many French people do not understand that they can reopen while the restaurants remain closed. The third flaw is safe: security is the great absence of the deconfining plan. The Group of the Republicans wants enhanced security, strict control of our national borders and the reopening of our civil and criminal courts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u101	...because we refuse to release 20,000 prisoners prematurely in the name of practical considerations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u102	And not a word about the regalian!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u103	The last flaw concerns economic restart. In this area, the plan lacks breath and conviction. We propose to speed up the economic recovery in the least affected departments, by reopening shops, cafes and restaurants as of 11 May, as well as libraries and media libraries: late May or early June seems to us to be too late. In the other departments, we wish to see gradual openings between 11 May and 15 June. Of course, the recovery will have to be very supervised and subject to strict health rules – a small number of public receptions, social distancing. Moreover, since these measures are costly for businesses, we must continue to support them on a daily basis, by gradually making the end of partial unemployment, by extending the state-guaranteed loan by at least one year and by continuing to provide small businesses with the solidarity fund. In fact, we want to cancel all taxes, social and tax charges – I insist – for coffee shops, hotels and restaurants, but also for shops, during confinement and during the first two months following the definisation. Since the beginning of the crisis, the right has shown consistency, coherence and responsibility. We have voted for all the emergency measures and put forward many proposals, in particular concerning the threshold for the loss of turnover allowing access to the solidarity fund or the authorisation given to pharmacies to sell masks. For our trademark is to be a force of proposition. Because we want France to succeed, we have also put on the table this weekend a plan with fifty precise and credible proposals, the result of the collective work of the 104 Members of the group. It is based on two priorities: better protecting the French and accelerating economic recovery. Our deconfining strategy is summed up in three words: masks, tests, work. We want a clear, protected and territorial deconfinition: clear, because we need to give economic actors perspectives and visibility to all French people; under protection, because the world after cannot look like the world before and we cannot afford to take the risk of a new wave; Finally, because we do not believe in a Jacobin, bureaucratic and technocratic deconfinition. We must trust the actors on the ground, the local elected representatives and all the French who hold our country standing. Prime Minister, trust these French who, from supermarket cashiers to road hauliers, from farmers to agri-food workers, from EHPAD staff to home helpers, have all rolled up their sleeves to front and serve others. Trust the living forces of the nation, which, from voluntary associations to business leaders, from professional organizations to parliamentarians, are mobilizing to reboot our economy. Trust local elected officials who, from mayors to regional presidents, have been constantly finding common sense solutions that are pragmatic, often by making up for the shortcomings and shortcomings of the state. Our clear, protected and territorialized de-confinination plan is an indispensable prerequisite for restoring the confidence of the French and restoring the conditions for an exit from the crisis. The French allowed the containment to succeed; They now expect you to be at the meeting of the deconfinement. We don't want to die cured! That is why we must succeed in deconfining. Defining is a turning point, a decisive step. The health, economic and social consequences of its failure could be just as dramatic as the health crisis itself. To succeed, however, the strategy must be clear, the method rigorous, the course well set. But, until now, counter-orders follow orders. The contradictory injunctions that we have been receiving over the past few weeks completely blur the message and make it difficult to apply the debunking strategy. One day, we are told that it is aberrant to close the borders; the next day, that the closure of the borders is required. One day, we are told that the schools will reopen on May 11; the next day, that the return to class will ultimately be based on volunteerism. One day, it is declared that the deconfination will be regional; the next day, that this option is ruled out. One day, we are warned that the elderly will remain confined after 11 May; The next day, we learn that this option – and it's happy – is also ruled out. One day, restaurants must reopen mid-June; The next day, it appears that this will ultimately not be the case. Prime Minister, to govern is to decide. Audacity does not amount to prudence; It also requires courage. In addition to decision-making and courage, politics sometimes also implies, and we must recognize, risk-taking. We therefore want deconfinity; But, I repeat, there is a clear and protected breakdown, because the lack of sufficient protection is the assurance of a subsequent reconfinition to deal with a second wave. Without masks and sufficient tests – and despite what you said earlier, we still doubt your ability to mobilize enough for all the French – you will find yourself in the impasse of an impossible definity. Given these uncertainties, this lack of courage and sometimes of clairvoyance, you will understand that Members of the Republican Group cannot give you any confidence or white-sing. We almost unanimously refuse to vote for your plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u104	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u105	...because, like more than six in ten Frenchmen, we no longer have confidence. You have, of course, set out a rational theoretical framework this afternoon, but it is the operational implementation of the measures that we must now all look after together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u106	It's blablabla!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u107	We've heard the blablaze for two hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u108	Therefore, our group will mostly opt for vigilant, demanding and constructive abstention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u109	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...and will continue to be the voice of the questions of the French as of the expectations of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u111	To rule is to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u112	Courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u113	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u114	First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, and on behalf of all of you, I believe that I bow to the memory of those who have been taken away by the virus, as well as those who have not been able to accompany their dead for a final tribute. This pandemic will have been right in what we have done most intimately and which marked the first progress of human civilizations; This invites us to show the greatest responsibility in these unprecedented times. Our country is going into remission and recession. In remission, because we have succeeded in curbing the spread of the virus, our health care system has held through caregivers, workers, law enforcement, all those confined, who have agreed to stay at home. We agreed to stop the country's march to protect the most physically fragile. In doing so, we have given its full meaning to the beautiful word of fraternity. But beware: remission is not healing; relapse remains possible. So you have done well, Prime Minister, to start by laying down rules of precaution and social organisation so that we can avoid it. In times of remission, we will have to fight the recession. First of all, it threatens the most economically fragile: the unemployed, the social beneficiaries, the temporary workers, the holders of fixed-term contracts, the self-employed. It could lead to a social regression that we must do everything we can to prevent. It is now also towards these people that we must show fraternity. This is our main responsibility: to be fraternal towards both the physically most fragile, that we must continue to protect, and towards the most socially fragile, that we must not place in an untenable position. That is why we are going out of a containment regime with exceptions to move towards a freedom regime with restrictions. That is how we must explain the situation to the French. Your plan, Prime Minister, is based on two pillars: health equipment – masks, tests, isolation devices – and a framework for action by sector of activity, public and private, which will be entrusted on the ground, in a decentralized way, to the mayor-prefect couple. Several colleagues shared in the rostrum their demand that the work be territorialized. For my part, I would like it to be below the departmental level, perhaps even at the borough level, and for the mayor-prefect couple to join parliamentarians and the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u115	It's not a couple anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u116	A congressman, actually, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u117	For it is with them, as well as with the sub-prefects, that, in the public and private sectors, we will be able to achieve deconfinity. In the field of health, it is important to have reintroduced objectives and found clarity, first with regard to masks, by redefining the doctrine, by providing a guarantee of its availability and by indicating their method of use and the obligations to which the French will be subjected in this field, particularly in the most affected departments and when the rules of social distancing cannot be respected. Of course, in this regard, from the beginning of the crisis, we were in difficulty everywhere on the ground – it was not a matter of political colour or department – because the medical doctrine regarding the utility of wearing the mask was unclear and because, in any case, the material was not available. Now, thanks to the action of the Government as well as local elected officials and through industrial mobilization, we can provide masks to the entire population. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The issue of masks has given rise to great controversy, but we must all show the greatest humility in this regard. For, while much has been said, in the media, about the alleged impreparation of the Government, I must say, without calling into question anyone, that, for some 20 years since I was elected local and for three years since I was a Member of Parliament, I have never heard anyone, either on the ground or here in the debates on the social security budget, call for massive purchases of masks to replenish the stocks, and I have not heard any more from parliamentarians, local elected officials or officials of the private or the public ask for the relocation of the production of masks. We must therefore all maintain a certain humility in the face of the difficulties that must now be overcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u118	For sure, humility knows you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u119	We can be humble and not naive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u120	You have provided answers in terms of masks, Prime Minister, but also in terms of tests: I would like to welcome the target of 700000 tests a week, and also the very important challenge of itinerant tests, thanks to the health brigades. You also mentioned isolation, which is indeed difficult for the French. But we will need them to accept it to break the spread chain of the virus. By this provisional withdrawal, they will mark their social solidarity. The health system goes hand in hand with the territorial block, because, in the room we have to play today...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u121	We're not playing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u122	If it were a game, it would be!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u123	...if there is no unity of place, the virus has spread differently depending on the territory, and if there is no unity of time – because its progression varies from place to place – there must be a unity of action. But this action is necessarily local. Thus, in terms of schools, the differences are not only regional, not even always departmental or communal, but sometimes between schools in the same municipality. I had the honour of being mayor for seventeen years...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u124	That was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u125	... and I know that, in three of the four schools in the same municipality, the mayor can decide with the prefect or sub-prefect to organize physical distancing, because the canteens are quite spacious, and that other solutions must be found for the fourth, where it is not possible: this can be achieved through reorganization, voluntary work, reflection with the parents of pupils and employers, and important social work to identify the students who are of absolute priority because of their situation of family distress. All of this can only be done at the closest point to the ground. So there will be green departments and other red ones. Most mayors obviously want to do their people a favor. Some people have heard that they absolutely do not want to reopen schools. This can be justified if their commune is located in a red department, but when they take this responsibility, and we ourselves when we entrust it to them, we have to think about the families whose parents work and have to return to their posts, single-parent families, especially when the mother has the status of self-employed. The Minister of National Education is well aware of this: even in the red areas where mayors will not be able or willing to reopen schools, the field work of mayors, sub-prefects and prefects will have to be able to find solutions according to the particular social situations of families. This is an illustration of what the territorialised and decentralized work to be carried out in the deconfinition should be. In the area of employment, the activity must be able to resume, because the recession would make its first victims among the most socially fragile French. It also involves working on the ground with the social partners in the various branches of activity and disseminating prevention guides and good practices, so that the French can rework tomorrow and our economic system can come back to life. If our country were to face a second wave of adventure, we could not finance our health system without the financial means to overcome it. In the area of commerce, you have also given the direction of the Government, Prime Minister, and I would like to commend the massive support that you and the President of the Republic have decided to give to hotels and restaurants, since it is the part of the commercial sector that will be hardest hit. Finally, in the field of transport, field work will also be necessary. In this regard, I will make two observations. The first concerns the need to reflect on the future of air transport, in particular on links with our overseas territories, which is a strong expectation of these territories. The second concerns Île-de-France: the rules relating to the wearing of the mask and to social distancing, Madam Minister of Environmental Transition and Transport, will have to be drawn up there as close to the ground if we want the organization of the transport plans to allow the Franciliennes and the Franciliens to return to work in good conditions. It is therefore necessary to reflect with employers on differentiated timetables so that, morning and evening, peaks in public transport are expanded, and with all local authorities to adapt transport plans. As for carpooling, this huge system, which is also a form of solidarity, it will have to be reorganised, especially in the French departments outside Paris. As can be seen, only territorialization and field action are suitable for successful deconfination. In this regard, the territorial differentiation between the red and green departments will allow everyone to know where they are and how much attention they need to pay to their environment depending on where they live in order to get their department out of the red or to keep their department in the green. In conclusion, I would like to say two words about tomorrow. France is in remission, and we will have to go towards its healing; France is in recession, and we will have to avoid any regressions. But we must also think of a reconstruction and see, in this gradual exit from the crisis, a formidable opportunity to rebuild, of course, our industrial and health sovereignty, but also to rebuild solidarity – I am thinking of the new solidarity that has been organized on the ground by so many French and French people, and that will have to continue – while taking into account, of course, the ecological imperative in the reconstruction of the country. All of this will require questioning many of our convictions. No one can claim that liberalism will have to be restored to everything, because who can forget that an international division of labour that has led to the manufacture of masks and tests only in Asia has led us to the impasse? But to all those who want the entire French economy to be nationalized tomorrow, I would remind you that it has been nationalized for a few weeks now, since it is the state that pays wages and guarantees the capital of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u126	You didn't understand anything about nationalization, I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u127	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have just experienced that this solution will also have to be called into question. At the ecological level, this period will allow us to resolve this very old debate between growth and decline, knowing that it is the most fragile French people who suffer most in this period of decline, and that we will therefore need green growth rather than a dark decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u128	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This call to humility must lead us to succeed in deconfinity in order to build a better world and so that we can continue to change life a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u130	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u131	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u132	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u133	The members of the Socialist and Related Group listened carefully to you, Prime Minister. You are in charge of the essentials: the lives of thousands of women and men who would not resist the infection of the virus. In a few months, this virus has undermined our daily lives, confined our lives, disrupted our lifestyles, transformed our relationship with others. The containment stopped the progression of the Covid -19, but not to make it disappear. If it is a war, it is a war of position, a war of trenches, and every day the front expands to new countries. Without vaccine, no reliable treatment, no insured immunization, we will have to live with the virus and especially the threat of an epidemic recovery, even though our caregivers are exhausted and implore us to give them even more respite than tributes. Our group shares with you the goal of deconfining: life must resume, work must resume so that the procession of bankruptcies does not take away the many families already weakened by two months of inactivity. The question is therefore not that of the objective, but of the means devoted to it. In the face of a health disaster, it is our duty to work together to find the best way out of it as quickly as possible. Since the first day, we have told you that we are ready to build a shared response. But in return we only got staged meetings, fake dialogues and real instrumentalization of these appointments! I must tell you, Prime Minister, that I had hoped at some point, 15 days ago, that this attitude would change when you started a discussion with all the party leaders. This hope was short-lived, for the next day, without the prior preparation of a government plan, the date of 11 May was set by the President alone! At this moment in our national life, improvisation is guilty, because it creates a mistrust, even though the country needs clear benchmarks. In fifteen days, we saw a festival of contradictions, inconsistencies, approximations on the confinement of elders, on the reopening of schools, on the regionalisation of measures – you have now had to review the announcements made by the Minister of National Education. As for masks: useless one day, useful the next day, mandatory, optional, paper, fabric, ordered, not arrived; of delays in denials, denials in lies, the doctrine has varied so often that no one listens to you on this subject anymore! Let us simply say: no one should be held by the bet of the President of the Republic. I understand from your speech, Prime Minister, that you were not so far from sharing this point of view. The right time to get out of here is when we're ready. Clearly, what mayors, teachers and employees tell us is that everything is still far from ready. It is your own services that explain that there are not enough masks for all French people. Who imagines, however, to ensure 12 million daily trips in the metro without masks? Who imagines that the territory is divided between those who have received a mask and those who have not found one? We're talking about selling them. How much, then, will be limited to the purchase of a single mask, which they will not renew, for lack of means? You know the solution: free masks, tests, gel, blouses and breathers. Everything else is only dangerous diversion. The sanitary prerequisites are known. Your own scientific committee has detailed its principles – yet its existence should not be purely decorative. When his opinions are not followed, we would like to understand what motivates the Government's decisions: how would the conditions for returning to school be met, while Italian schoolchildren will not return to their schools until September, like our students? Why bring the little ones in as early as May 11 when you're careful about college students and high school students, if it's only that some of them keep themselves and not the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u135	New questions have also arisen since the appearance in Great Britain, Spain and Italy of a syndrome close to the severe form of coronavirus, which affects children and requires their hospitalization in intensive care: does it have a connection to the crisis we are facing? This is what the French expect of their rulers as well as of each of their elected officials: to assess the situation and ensure that the best guarantees are offered to them. One does not play with the health of the French with pile or face – pile, one wins; On the other hand, the epidemic's on its way! Definitely missed because ill-prepared would ruin the efforts made for two months and prepare a second wave of which one can fear violence. What the French want is not the acceleration at all costs of deconfining to allow a return to work without safety, with schools transformed into unsecured day care centres. Courage is not forced march, it is to make the right choices at the right time. Defining must be a moment of resilience for all, not the return to work for one and the nightmare for the other – those who do not return to work, who remain unemployed, without income. We must accompany the deconfination of a strong gesture of solidarity: that is what the Republic is all about! The President of the Republic has pledged that no one will be abandoned – "no matter what it costs," he said. The time has come to deliver on this fine commitment. The queues lie at the doors of charitable organizations. We will face a social crisis of unprecedented violence. Unemployment is already growing sharply. Situations of distress are multiplying. Here too, it is necessary to anticipate: tomorrow it will be too late! We must prevent evictions of rent in the social park, help more to the disadvantaged families, to the isolated students, to end this industrial factory of poverty, which is your unemployment insurance reform. We need a massive food aid plan and a general mobilisation for individualised support for young dropouts and help to find internships and apprenticeships, because we cannot give up a fifth of our youth. You have implemented partial unemployment measures – very well! What our German neighbours had done since 2008, we are finally doing. We fully agree with you on this point. However, we do not satisfy ourselves too quickly: partial unemployment also leads to loss of purchasing power, sometimes terrible, when the variable share, premiums and overtime no longer contribute to the household's income. Up to two and a half SMICs, it would be fair to compensate the wages in full. You'll tell us that it would be a lot of money. No doubt; But less than the one we lose to grant public aid to companies that continue to pay dividends or place their money in tax havens! You made a commitment on this last point, but you did not keep your promise when you considered the amending finance bill. Hold her! Stop being strong with the weak and weak with the strong! Fines cannot be reserved for those who do not respect confinement. There is no magic money, said the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u137	That's right; But there are magicians who know how to make it transparent to our eyes. So, if you want to track down, track down the dirty money, the one that escapes when all the French are called to civics! If you want our present to anticipate a different and therefore more solidary future, restore the ISF now, abrogate the flat tax, suspend all the indecent tax gifts you make to the richest while you only grant a bonus to some of the ones that allow this country to stand up today! Make strong commitments; Show the country that, like us, you have learned from this crisis! I will not finish my remarks without mentioning culture, but also our bars, our restaurants and everything that makes our lives more beautiful. A real plan must be drawn up for the revival of social, cultural, sporting and associative life, so that the social fabric does not collapse and our lives retain all their wealth tomorrow. We do not want principles or words. We want action. That is why, Prime Minister, you will not have our support. We do not want any more generalities, but a detailed instructions for use. We do not want this vote from a single bloc. We don't want to sign a blank check. We want concerted, transparent action that offers the best guarantees to the French. Mayors can no longer continue to be despised and summoned to implement decisions that the State inspires alone, without clear instructions, without support and without genuine dialogue. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In this crisis, the Government missed its meeting with the country, its territories and its social forces. As in the past three years, the President has been acting alone. With this method, he puts us all at risk of failing. The local authorities – like ourselves – will of course help, to the greatest extent possible, the success of the decoupling; But do not ask us to trust you that, for the time being, you do not deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u138	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u139	It is difficult to appreciate, in a few minutes, the very broad plan that you have presented. First of all, I would like to point out that the members of the IDU, Action and Independent Group share the idea that we must choose between deconfinity and collapse. In fact, this choice is not one: you have to get out of the way, the question being how. I believe that your speech has positive elements and good news. I first noted that it was not certain that the de-confinition would take place on 11 May and that you conditioned it on the fulfilment of several criteria: the number of new cases; the state of emergency services; the rebuilding of stocks of equipment and medicines, but also of human capital, in particular in the most tried departments and territories; and the capacity for testing, which is indispensable to improve definity on 11 May. I believe, however, that you have forgotten to mention the availability of the masks – because they will not be available at the same time throughout the territory. Local authorities, having all ordered simultaneously, will not receive them all at the same time and will therefore not be able to guarantee the necessary protection for everyone. You clearly stated the essential character of the masks. I thank you for that, but I do not think anyone has ever challenged the choice to reserve them to caregivers. I regret that we did not simply explain to the French that, since we did not have enough masks, the caregivers were given priority because, if they died, no one would have been able to treat us. All the French would have understood this, and the confidence of the population would have been strengthened. To ensure that these criteria are met, it will be necessary for elected officials to be able to judge them themselves. It is their responsibility, more so than the prefects, who provide remarkable work but are not accountable to the public. The second positive point is to proceed in successive stages of three weeks. We will see how the criterion of the green or red departments applies – I am not sure that it is necessary to wait three weeks for each decision in this area – but it is good that we progress in stages, not in one block. I have also noted several contradictions, perhaps related to misunderstandings or incompleteness. First of all, you are talking about territorialisation of deconfinement, but the Minister of National Education says that all schools must reopen at the same time. You then announce that the beaches will remain closed everywhere while, in some territories where the virus has almost not circulated, I do not think that we are more in danger on a beach than in the mediatheques you wish to open – even if I imagine that limits will be set. You indicate that access to crèches will be limited to 10 children per establishment. I have not understood this point very well – I imagine that the next few days will allow us to see more clearly. Above all, I have not understood why you choose – and rightly so – to ask that day-care centres give priority to single-parent families and children whose parents are obliged to work, without extending this requirement to nursery schools where, between us, the rules of social distancing will be strictly impossible to apply. I asked you about this at previous meetings and I do it again: will mayors who refuse to open kindergartens be obliged to do so by the prefects, and, if so, who will be criminally responsible? I also note that you do not mention the need to test massively the adults involved in schools – teachers, staff of local authorities, or even employees of the companies involved. This was done before confinement: schools were closed when an adult was infected. It seems to me better to carry out these tests upstream, to prevent infection from threatening school staff and children. [[Smile]] It will also be up to you to clarify certain uncertainties. You have announced, for example, that parks and gardens could only reopen in green departments. However, quite frankly, in the departments that will remain red – without words, in the case of the Seine-Saint-Denis – the population, which is confined to very difficult housing conditions, must be allowed to aerate. We had designed a system to regulate, in parks where possible, the number of entrants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u140	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u141	I'm asking you to think about it. Another uncertainty concerns interdepartmental travel, which will be possible, if I have understood correctly, for certain reasons and on presentation of a certificate. I ask you now, Prime Minister, what about the holidays? Some departments will certainly remain in the red category by that date. I did not understand how you intended to limit the number of passengers on public transport, for example in the Paris metro. It will of course be necessary to spread the number of visitors during the day, but it will not be easy to prevent users from getting into the same train, especially since they are under considerable economic and social pressure. You said that isolation would be based on volunteerism. I would like to draw your attention to the people who, in order to isolate themselves, will have to cut themselves off from their work: we will have to compensate for this situation by allowing them to be placed in sick treatment – it seems obvious to me. You announced that the tracking application would not apply right now. I do not know if it would prove useful, but I would simply say to the French that, after examination, although our group initially had some questions, it does not seem to us to be a problem with regard to public freedoms. On the other hand, the possibility of an extension of the state of emergency, which you have addressed, worries us: if adaptations are necessary to live with the virus, there cannot be a question of asking the French to live permanently under an emergency regime. Finally, you have invited us to enrich the debunking device in the coming weeks. The elected members of the IDU group, Action and Independents will gladly do so. It is regrettable that you have not given us time to think about it, to discuss it and to discuss it between us today. The Government has had 15 days to draw up a plan for deconfinition on which our groups must vote in an hour: this may explain the diversity of the votes. In essence, the success of deconfining will depend only on one thing: the return of the confidence of the French in public speaking, particularly in the confidence of their government officials. Without it, they will not put their children back in schools, they will not go to work and they will not borrow transportation. In my personal capacity, I believe that the Government has handled and monitored the economic crisis well, but that health monitoring leaves many questions to the French. It is on this point that you must regain their confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u142	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u143	"Our knowledge is a drop, our ignorance, an ocean," said Isaac Newton, highlighting the limits of the human mind to understand the natural phenomena and the laws that govern them. We also face these limitations in the face of an object as complex as the management of an epidemic caused by a virus which, let us recall, was unknown to all a few months ago and which, since then, has led half of humanity to confine itself, for lack of better. Indeed, without vaccine or treatment available and since the virus's circulation could not be limited to a few households, we had little choice but to make this difficult decision to slow down the epidemic, relieve our health systems and save as many lives as possible. This containment strategy proved to be just as effective as it was terribly costly: effective, because containment successfully stemmed the first wave of epidemics, the rate of transmission of the virus in the population having been reduced by at least 80%; But also costly, because, in addition to its economic impact, confinement causes great suffering in many of our fellow citizens. We must therefore come out of this, but gradually, because a sudden lifting of control measures puts the risk of a second wave and a disastrous human balance. The exit of containment must therefore be a continuation of the epidemic control strategy. In this sense, we must pursue the same objectives: to limit the occurrence of new infections and to treat as effectively as possible the cases detected in order to limit the number of serious forms. Protecting, testing, isolating: that is, in essence, what you presented earlier, Prime Minister. This strategy must necessarily be flexible and adaptive, because we do not know what the experts meeting in the Scientific Council will be doing tomorrow. Given this uncertainty, we must mobilize all available means: masks, tests, barrier gestures, social distancing and technological tools. It is our ability to alleviate the constraints facing the French and to avoid at all costs the prospect of a reconfinement. To that end, the Scientific Council formulated several strategic directions in its opinion of 20 April, and I welcome the Government's follow-up. We have succeeded in containment and, in order to achieve deconfinity, there are several prerequisites to be fulfilled. We must, on the one hand, provide all our fellow citizens with protective equipment to reduce the transmission of the virus and, on the other hand, systematically identify suspect cases in order to test them and, if necessary, isolate them. It is in this sense that the State, communities, economic actors and the public health system have worked tirelessly. While some could still say at the beginning of April that France did not have the means to deconfinity, things have changed since then. Thus, we have restored our physical protection stocks and will be able to make them available to the entire population on 11 May, as needed. For the surgical masks and FFP2, reserved primarily for caregivers and highly exposed people, this reconstitution has been gradual, as supply chains from China have been broken and we have had to structure an industrial sector. Since March, every effort has been made to increase domestic production capacity and increase orders abroad. We are currently producing 10 million masks per week and are expected to reach the target of 20 million by the end of May. At the same time, the airlift set up with China is working and a new order of 100 million units is expected this week. For the general population, alternative masks of industrial or craft production are sufficient and must be distributed as a matter of priority to persons in regular contact with the public. For this category, more than 41 million units have already been produced since 30 March and 242 companies present on French soil have positioned themselves in this market, which will enable us to reach the target of 38 million in the week of 11 May. Reusable up to 20 times, these masks will be suitable for most traditional professional activities and everyday life. However, it should be borne in mind that wearing these masks can give a false sense of security, because it is really effective only if it is coupled with strict respect for barrier measures and social distancing. In any event, careful care should be taken to ensure that such equipment is available without the risk of disruption of supply and at affordable prices for all. As far as consumer masks are concerned, we already see abusive pricing practices, some of which sell them at a price of 10 euros, while the expected prices are in the range of 2 to 5 euros. These practices are completely unacceptable and, although this has been ruled out, the issue of the tariff framework may need to be reconsidered. On the other hand, it seems to me that we could usefully rely on the mobilization of networks of independent fablabs and makers, which have played an important role since the beginning of the crisis and have helped to reduce shortages of protection and care equipment. This tremendous energy must be sustained and, at the very least, we must beware of any regulatory initiative that would hinder local innovation, that of the fablabs and seamstresses in all your territories. In addition to equipping the population with protective equipment, successful deconfining requires the deployment of capacities to rapidly identify cases and their contacts, as well as the isolation of patients and all healthy infectious carriers. This requires reliable tests in sufficient numbers and the deployment of very important logistical and human resources throughout the country. As far as testing is concerned, first of all, let us be careful about serological tests, which still have important limits and have only a relative interest in individual use. As a first step, they should instead be used for epidemiological investigations to determine the level of immunity of the population. PCR tests – Polymerase Chain Reaction, or chain polymerization reaction – must be the main tool for the diagnosis and control of the epidemic. The challenge in the coming weeks is therefore to foresee their wide availability throughout the country. Last week, more than 270,000 PCR tests were performed. Our capacity has doubled in 15 days and continues to increase, reaching the target of 500,000 to 700000 tests per week by 11 May. However, testing the entire population is neither realistic nor desirable: it would take too long and would only give a transitional picture of the situation. Instead, PCR tests should involve anyone with any symptoms that are evocative, in order to isolate them if they are positive. Contacts should also be identified, tested and isolated if necessary. Such a strategy will require a strong mobilization of trained personnel and significant human logistics. The aim will be to create a health force – the famous "health brigade" – of about 20,000 to 30,000 people, who will carry out missions of detection and referral of cases, assessment of the risks of transmission and recommendation as to the strategy of isolation to be followed. The aim will also be to provide a significant network of infrastructure in the national territory to make testing easily accessible. These infrastructures and teams will have to be set up and coordinated at different regional or territorial levels, to the closest to the population. They may include the mobilization of doctors, paramedics, volunteers and staff to be recruited. Operational and data confidentiality training will be required for each component of this service. In this health system, digital tools are intended to occupy a special place. First, they have a key role to play in supporting logistics and enabling the proper integration of the different stages of the process, in particular with regard to the conduct of tests, the rendering of results and the early warning of positive people, the search for contacts or the transfer of data in real time to epidemiological surveillance systems. This is a question that many of our colleagues here have in mind, such as Pierre-Alain Raphan or Mounir Mahjoubi – forgiveness to the many others that I am not quoting. In this sense, the situation calls for the construction of a distributed, simple, interoperable information system, helping agents and enabling the exploitation and consolidation of data. In addition, some digital tools that facilitate contact tracing can be very valuable in enhancing the effectiveness of this device. As such, let me say a word about the StopCovid application project, which has generated much controversy and divided on all the benches of this House, up to those of our majority. This debate is legitimate and, on matters relating to fundamental rights and freedoms, it is sound that different sensitivities are expressed – I will not depart from the remarks made earlier by the Prime Minister. As far as our group is concerned, I think I can say that, in the majority, it is in favour of any ethical, supervised, protective digital tool for the consent and privacy of the user and effective in health. This is what we are talking about here, as the CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – or the National Digital Council in their respective opinions have pointed out, provided that sufficient guarantees are provided. We will pay particular attention to this. For some, this application would be similar from the outset to the most invasive surveillance technologies, such as facial recognition, and should be rejected as a matter of principle, without even considering the possibility of red lines or its potential usefulness. Nothing seems more irresponsible to me. Finally, we are not very far from the ill-advised observers who in the past felt it was unnecessary to keep a stock of 1 billion masks and then explain to us, when the need arose, that it should have been preserved. For my part, I consider it preferable, in the context of a health crisis, to listen to epidemiologists when they argue that such a tool can be useful and that it is possible to conceive it in accordance with our values. Let's not give in to ultracrepidarianism. Let us therefore listen to them, certainly without naivety, and wait to see if this application is proven, even if it is not. At least we will have taken every precaution to have our own sovereign tools. I will conclude by stressing the difficulties and uncertainties before us. While we have advanced our knowledge of the virus in recent months, many unknowns remain. The certainty we have gained is that containment and barrier actions are working. As far as deconfinity is concerned, we are preparing for it and we have good hope, but without a definitive guarantee. The future is uncertain and a share of the risk must be taken. We can't just think about all the options, while the virus continues to plague, because time is its best ally. In normal times, we would evaluate first, and then try. We need to act, experiment, evaluate our actions, and revise them if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u145	The logistical, human and technological challenges to controlling the outbreak at the end of containment are considerable. The next two weeks will be crucial to building the capacity we need. But progress is already there and the directions taken are the right ones. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I therefore invite you, on behalf of the La République on the move, to vote in favour of the Government's statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u146	[[At 18:10, Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u147	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u148	I hope the Prime Minister has not left us yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u149	He's already gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u150	Twenty-three thousand dead, including nine thousand of our elders in the terrible lock-up of the EHPADs. Twenty-eight thousand people were hospitalized, of whom four thousand six hundred were still in resuscitation. Tens of thousands of affected families at heart. These terrifying figures make France the fourth worst hit country in the world. At the same time, more than 11 million of our compatriots are in partial activity, as it is said modestly. Unemployment rose by 7% in March. Unpublished records. Craftsmen, traders, liberal professions, and business leaders are now living in the terror of the next day. Lives have disappeared, others, innumerable, are still threatened, others will be upset. Faced with this unprecedented tragedy, the French were exemplary of courage and mobilization. I am thinking in particular of our formidable health personnel, to whom I mean our infinite gratitude. In this context, Prime Minister, you are now seeking our trust. Before we speak, it is useful to ask if you are worthy of it. President Macron has spoken of war, but for the time being it is a Berezina who has struck us and the warlords have not shined. Of course, it is not De Gaulle or Clemenceau who wants to. Yes, we suffered a health June 1940 – I make this observation with sadness. Prime Minister – you are back in the Chamber, and I am delighted about it – you have not been able to anticipate this crisis sufficiently. At every stage of the pandemic, but well before that, you have lacked foresight and foresight. What a mistake! Fatal mistakes, which cost our country so much! In 2018 and 2019, you did not follow the reports that required the renewal of strategic mask stocks, which had fallen to the lowest level since Nicolas Sarkozy's departure, who had left 1.4 billion of them: there were barely 100 million of them in January 2020. On 24 January, Agnès Buzyn declared that the risk of importing coronavirus from China was near-nul, opening a long period of almost a month of inertia before the first cases appeared in Italy. On 23 February, here, in response to my question, you refused any form of closure or even control of our borders, blinded by the ideology of a world where the border was assimilated by President Macron to nationalism, which had become more dangerous than the virus. However, borders have better and more effectively protected the countries that closed them faster than we have, such as Germany, Austria and Portugal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u151	And the United States!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u152	On April 6, you yourself claimed that wearing a mask on the street was useless. On 13 April, President Macron indicated that there would be no sense in testing the entire population. On March 6, he invited to the theatre. On 13 March, he also challenged the wearing of the mask. For months, you have expressed always peremptory, frequently contradictory and often erroneous statements. All this to conceal the truth: the cruel absence of masks, tests and breathers. In the end, Germany, which has not experienced this shortage and which has been able to anticipate, equip and test, has five times fewer deaths than France. We owe this truth to the French today. Major health crisis, unprecedented economic crisis, social crisis tomorrow: here we are. Let us also beware of the emergence of a violent security crisis – it is, in fact, already there: urban violence, violation of confinement, attacks by police officers, gendarmes and firemen, Islamist attacks. This crisis further accentuated the gap between the law-abiding and the law-free France. Rodeos...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u153	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u154	... and crowds tolerated in some quarters according to instructions given by your government, intransigence elsewhere: a weak government with the strong and strong with the weak, this is what many French people felt. We warn you against these threats; But you have not said a single word, Prime Minister. We ask you to reopen the courts, reopen the administrative detention centres to accommodate the most dangerous illegals, and stop the release of detainees, some of whom are radicalised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u155	Frankly, Mr. Ciotti! Not all shots are allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u156	At this rate, there will be 20,000 fewer! Finally, give the police and gendarmes, the real forgotten of the Republic – to whom we must also consider and respect – the means they deserve: equipment, bonuses and overtime payments. We will probably face other crises, perhaps even more serious. The best weapon to deal with it is a strong and respected state. Also, re-arm the State! During this crisis, "it was with human lives that our people" ended up "mistakes and delays," as Charles de Gaulle had already written in 1938. Yet, despite this "quiet defeat", we are still not ready, and that is why, Prime Minister, I will not approve of your plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u157	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u158	The national strategy for deconfining, on which we are going to vote earlier, overshadowed the substantive debate that we should have had here and now on digital tracing. It was originally planned for a debate without a vote, then it was a debate with a vote, then a debate in the debate, and you have just told us, Prime Minister, that the debate, still on this subject, would take place on another day. This is a rather striking summary of the Government's approach. And since I can't rule out an umpteenth reversal, that is, a pure and simple renunciation of this debate, I'm going to tell you about the application you gave a very reassuring name to: StopCovid, as if a digital application could stop the progression of a virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u159	Of course, that's how we considered it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u160	You have expressed your doubts about this application, Prime Minister. I will therefore tell you my colleagues and my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group: doubts about the technical and legal obstacles still far too numerous for a decision to be taken with full knowledge of the facts; doubts about the reservations expressed by authoritative bodies, the CNIL, the Higher Commission on Digital and Positions, but also regarding the numerous alerts of researchers, scientists, experts and lawyers, even within the National Institute for Research in Digital Science and Technology, the INRIA, which is in charge of piloting the project;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u161	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u162	... doubts about the decision of Belgium, which has receded, of Germany, which has snobbled Europe by radically changing its strategy; doubts about attempts to be at least unsatisfactory in Austria and even in Singapore; doubts when seeing the iron arm almost lost in advance with Google and Apple; doubts about the weakness of our health and technological sovereignty – which is the real debate, the one we will not escape tomorrow; doubts when one knows the part of the excluded from digital; Finally, doubts about the risks of social tension and threats to our public and individual freedoms. More prosaically, I wanted to talk to you, Prime Minister, about the French who see to this extent a kind of diversion. They know that a great nation that struggles to make pieces of paper to hide its face will find it hard to make it look like it's going to repel a virus with a smartphone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u163	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u164	France needs masks, gel, tests, medicines – bar-point. You can imagine all the applications in the world, if the home nurse has to run to find adequate protections, if the one with symptoms has to wait for respiratory failure to be tested, the digital tracing will be a cataplasm on a wooden leg. In this fight, the French believe in the strength of their caregivers more than in the strength of their smartphone, in the public service more than in the digital fairy, in men more than in the machine. Epidemiologists too. In the plan of battle of scientists, France needs more arms than screens, health investigators than algorithms, nurses than apprentice sorcerers. It is from these needs that we must bring together our forces, that the French – and we are at their side – urge you to invest. For those French who have consented with great courage to the test of confinement, let us not add the fear of seeing their intimate life subdued and then exploited. The emergency isn't a right-hand pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u165	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u166	The anguish of death may create special conditions of acceptance, but we do not have the right to instrumentalize it. Prime Minister, listen to this little music, which tells you that the pressure of urgency should not be added to that of recklessness; Listen to the simple questions of the French: will there be enough masks on May 11, enough medicine, enough open schools? Do not turn us away from the essentials, do not tell them that there will be an application to download.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u167	That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u168	We know that the virus will find in its way the intelligence of our researchers, the knowledge of our doctors, the self-denial of our caregivers and the remarkable solidarity of the French. They know everything about the story that's been going on for a few weeks. The answer they are waiting for is not an application, they are waiting to be protected and supported. That is why, by giving up the StopCovid app, you will not only remain the guardian of the freedoms that we have been deprived of for forty-two days, but you will prove that your political priorities are now beyond the unbridled search for a technical and chimeric solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u169	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u170	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u171	My first thoughts, after listening to the exhibition of the Government's strategy for deconfining and successive interventions, go first to all bereaved families, affected by the death of a relative due to the Covid-19 and also to all health professionals who have not counted the hours to care for and accompany the sick. Some are now physically and psychologically exhausted by what they have experienced and we must pay tribute to them. So it is to them that I think we are starting the debate on the health strategy of deconfinement. How can we prevent the epidemic from starting again? For more than six weeks, France as a whole has been confined, like half of the world's population, in order to limit the spread of the new virus. Let us be honest: at the announcement of the containment decision, we were all taken short and most of our organizations were not prepared to deal with a health crisis of this magnitude. This was also the case for Parliament and the communities. I hear a lot of criticism, the one on the masks is also on a worrying scale; I hear anger in the face of malfunctions and our lack of preparedness; I also hear the pain of those who have lost a loved one in a nursing home or hospital, without even being able to say goodbye. I understand them, because the deprivation of liberty and the lack of humanity imposed by containment measures are difficult to live in. [[Denis Masséglia applauds]] But I must also testify to the speed with which Parliament passed, in a consensual manner, the emergency law to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic, and the responsiveness of the Government to take orders to adopt health regulations, to safeguard the economy and jobs as much as possible, to adapt the rules of operation of the communities. Criticism is easy and anticipation of the necessary actions is always easier to predict after the fact. Many things remain unknown, making all conspiracy or extremist discourse popular, all false information, taking advantage of anger and indignation so quick to express itself during crises, each Frenchman becoming the one who knows what the Government should have done. Prime Minister, you have presented us with your plan of action, your detailed, concrete method, with a certain humility before all the questions, with a desire for transparency and with the desire to trust local elected representatives. The adaptation of the national plan to the weekly health situation of each of the departments, trusting the local actors, the mayors in the first place, with the help of the prefects, seems to us a good method of work. Members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group are aware of the need to disband: the French cannot remain confined any longer, unless they become mad because their freedom is so restricted, unless they are ruined by the devastating effects of the crisis on our economy. Moreover, we do not think, like some who abuse the "Y is only to", "We have to", that we could have made decisions other than those taken by the executive in the light of scientific knowledge, or rather of the lack of scientific knowledge, on the virus, on its methods of propagation, on the immunity of people who have already been contaminated. Your strategy to get the nation out of confinement is based on the triptych: protecting, testing, isolating the population. It is at this point that local decisions will have to be taken. This strategy is based on individual accountability, individual citizenship, individual and collective capacity to respect and enforce barrier actions, to pay attention to the most fragile, to undergo testing, health investigations, and to remain confined, in order to limit the spread of the virus. You announced the work carried out by France in the development of a digital contact tracing application. This has led to media unrest. Let me say a few words about this today, although we must have an opportunity to discuss it at a later stage. The Government has built a roadmap for the StopCovid project on a voluntary basis. In addition, without geolocation, with an anonymisation of contact data, with the publication of the source code, with the obligation to take the opinion of the National Agency for the Security of Information Systems, the ANSSI, and that of the CNIL, this application will respect individual freedoms. We would have liked the Germans not to leave the project on the way to finally trust Apple and Google rather than a European app. We regret it. Is European digital sovereignty therefore nothing more than a chimera? However, on two key issues – the draft application, as presented in the press, can it save a few lives, and is it respectful of our legal framework in terms of ethics and privacy? –, I answer yes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Prime Minister, for all these reasons, the IDU, Action and Independent Group Members will vote unanimously for the de-confinement strategy that you have just presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u172	That's clear: we got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u173	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u174	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u175	I would like to begin my speech by recalling the role that the Constitution confers on Parliament: "Parliament passes the law. It oversees the work of the Government. What are we doing today? None of this! We serve as an alibi to the Government, which intends to dilute its responsibility and defeat the opposition by asking Parliament to sign a blank cheque. Let us be clear: we are all committed to making the deconfining operation a success. We have proved this by passing the two amending finance bills. However, if we understand the urgency of action, we refuse to be taken hostage. Too many issues remain open, too many issues cannot be agreed upon. The sacred union involved in the fight against the spread of the virus must not hide the fact that oppositions also have a role to play. Moreover, perhaps you should have heard us, when we were alerting you about the shortage of masks and tests or the need to establish border controls and prevent travellers from Asia, as Marine Le Pen did here on February 11 – but at the time you told the French that wearing the mask was useless. On March 7, again, the Macron couple encouraged our compatriots to go to the theatre; the previous weekend, you allowed Perpignan a meeting of 100,000 Catalans who had crossed the border while there were known cases of Covid-19 in Catalonia. Now you want to make it mandatory to wear the mask in confined spaces, starting with transport and schools. What a cruel paradox! As far as masks are concerned, we want the first deliveries to be free for everyone. How can barriers and social distancing be applied in school settings? Italy has postponed the opening of schools until the beginning of September – as our scientific council recommends. That was also what we advocated. Will we have enough masks for all users? What are we doing here? You have answered some of these questions. However, we give you an appointment on May 11, to check that the acts are in agreement with the words. The same considerations apply to tests. In a video conference with WHO members, Emmanuel Macron said he would like to make the testing system available in all countries of the world. "Even in France? I dare to retaliate to him. Giving lessons is good, applying them to yourself is better. As of 25 April, 463,000 people have been tested in France, compared with 2 million in Germany and 1.6 million in Italy. We can't increase our ability to test. However, the success of the deconfinement depends on it. On 16 March, WHO had made it clear: "Test, test, test"; We have to do it massively. We therefore solemnly ask that all people working or living in confined environments be tested: in companies, EHPADs, hospitals, schools, prisons, transport companies, in short wherever necessary. Confinement; deconfinity; in camera; s top and go ; reconfinement ; mask "unnecessary", then "mandatory"; schools open, then closed; restaurants closed until July, then until June; orders and counter-orders: it is very difficult to see clearly in your strategy! Initially, today we had to discuss only the application of tracing patients called StopCovid; If I understand correctly, we will talk about it, but we do not know anything about the concrete implications of this application, or even its actual usefulness. I think that this bad idea should be ruled out, because the blurry is total and the dangers are real. Since the outbreak of this epidemic, of which you have underestimated the severity, you do not act, you react, in a total macronial disorder. We cannot remain forever confined, but trust must be strong if the country is to return. Economically, it is necessary to bring about a shock of defiance in favour of traders, artisans and liberal professions, by helping the local authorities to exempt them from local taxes, by compensating for the loss of profits by the overall operating allocation – DGF – wherever possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u176	All we have to do is...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u177	I do not have time to mention all the issues that you have raised, Prime Minister, but I would like to say a word about the role of mayors. If it seems normal for them to be involved in the deconfining plan, they should not be used as a screen by the Government. That is why we have tabled, together with my colleagues at the National Assembly, a bill to protect them in the event of a serious problem related to your decisions. In conclusion, if we note a noticeable change in strategy and some caution in your remarks, Prime Minister, we will vote against your proposals, because we believe that too many questions remain unanswered so that we can make an informed opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u178	[[At 18:35, Mr. Richard Ferrand replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Before giving her the floor, I am pleased to welcome Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier, who on 17 March replaced Mr Olivier Véran, Member of Parliament for the first riding of l'Isère. Dear colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u180	To curb the spread of Covid-19 and ensure the proper care of our fellow citizens in hospitals, the President of the Republic had to resort to a measure unprecedented in our history: to ask the French to stay at their home. After forty-seven days of confinement, the horizon becomes clearer, the future is emerging, thanks to all our fellow citizens, who, through their discipline, their commitment, their patience, allowed to break the rise of the epidemic curve. It was once again demonstrated by the French spirit, the spirit of resilience that marked our history. Achieving the epidemic plateau was the sine qua non condition for considering deconfination. You, Prime Minister, have just drawn up the main principles of the latter. First of all, we should thank you for taking the initiative to present to our Assembly the Government's deconfining strategy. This is a sign of confidence in the representatives of the nation; through us, it is to the entire French people that you have just spoken. Since March 17, our economy has suffered. The unemployment figures for March 2020, published yesterday, show this. Some sectors have had no choice but to stop or significantly reduce their activity; At the same time, in spite of the storm, others continued to provide essential services to the French. Allow me to thank again here all those who have held the bar despite the difficulties and, sometimes, despite the risks: in the first place the caregivers, but also the accompanying of elderly or sick people, the delivery agents, cashiers, strippers, public cleaning and transport services, as well as the formidable associative fabric, which has been constantly mobilized – of course, these thanks are not exhaustive. We, the majority, will ensure that the commitments made to financially support these efforts and to upgrade those professions, of which the essential character has been seen, are not forgotten after the decoupling. The Government's plan for deconfining follows, to use the phrase you used, Prime Minister, a "peak line". The aim is to find a balance between, on the one hand, the need to revive activity in order to preserve employment, on the other hand, the consideration of health issues. You have presented a number of deconfining measures, which will allow a gradual return to employment and guarantee the economic recovery of our country, while ensuring the health security of all our citizens: traders, craftsmen, professions, employees, employees, users, consumers. With the break-up, it is part of the 350,000 retail outlets in France that will be able to reopen and recover an activity and a turnover – with the exception of shopping centres of more than 40,000 square meters, which will remain closed. It is essential that the reopening of shops be accompanied by the provision of an arsenal of means for traders and their employees to ensure their safety, as well as that of their customers. However, this epidemic must not make us forget that this sector is facing structural difficulties; I am thinking in particular of the large e-commerce platforms, which often impose competition that it cannot respond to. In addition to its considerable impact on our country's economy, the containment period has highlighted the importance of social bonding and intergenerational bonding. In many cases, local shops have played this role among the inhabitants, especially in rural and peri-urban areas. This fact calls for an in-depth reflection on the future of our local businesses and their protection against unbalanced competition. The breakdown scheduled for May 11 will not concern all stakeholders in this part of our economy; I am thinking in particular of those involved in tourism and catering. Several economic support schemes currently in force will be maintained, and cancellations of costs are already planned to ensure the sustainability of these activities. You have announced, Prime Minister, that a specific defunct timetable for this sector, which directly employs more than 1.5 million people, will be presented at the end of May. Professionals in the sector take date; It is essential that they be able to project themselves in the future and prepare for the resumption of work. More broadly, business leaders and their employees are concerned. When they were not closed, companies were forced to reduce or even stop their activity. They were supported by many measures whose sole objective was to keep their heads out of the water. More than 1 million companies have made use of the Solidarity Fund; EUR 30 billion was granted under the State-guaranteed loan; More than 10 million employees, i.e. one in two employees, have used the partial unemployment scheme. These unprecedented and structuring measures have enabled our economic fabric to resist the cessation of many economic and social activities – brutally halted, but necessary to curb the epidemic. This is not a green light given by the Government; It's an orange flashing light. Restarting, yes, but gradually, territorially, and provided that the health rules are respected. Tomorrow, employees will be able to return to their company's path, provided that genuine protection is guaranteed, so that they can resume their business safely. For this, it is necessary to put everyone around the table: the key to deconfining will be social dialogue. In each economic sector, it is essential that employers, employees and staff representatives discuss and discuss the conditions for deconfining within each enterprise. It was the joint work of the social partners, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Labour that led to the development of good practice guides. As you said, Prime Minister, there are no less than 40 sector guides, including the protocol of the Professional Organization for the Prevention of Building and Public Works (OPPBTP) and some 30 cross-sectional guides that have been written for a month: this is remarkable. Other good practice guides will still need to be written in the coming weeks so that they are available to all sectors of the economy. If, as a result of the breakdown, a majority of workers continue to work telework, some of them will return to their workplaces. Several major cities, such as Grenoble, Montpellier, Lyon and Rennes, have already announced their intention to accelerate the deployment of soft alternative modes of transport, drawing on initiatives stemming from tactical urban planning. The crisis will once again have been a reflection of the many transport opportunities available to us through the mobilization of local communities. However, many people will have no choice but to use public transport. An increase in the supply of transport is therefore essential if they are to be able to travel safely to their workplace. Increasing the supply of public transport is, of course, an integral part of the de-confinination plan. Today, 7% of high-speed trains and 15% of regional express trains operate; This rate is 30% on RATP metro lines. From 11 May onwards, the gradual resumption of a number of activities will go hand in hand with access to an expanded transport offer – up to half the pre-crisis level. The influx of additional people will be accompanied by a strengthening of the health measures already in force in public transport: impossibility of purchasing tickets in the means of transport, determination of a direction of traffic in buses and metro, for example; In addition, there will be the obligation to wear masks and slots reserved for certain populations. It will also be necessary to provide for cooperation between transport authorities and public and private establishments in each territory with a view to staggering working hours in order to smooth peak hours. Local and regional authorities will have a role to play in adapting the supply of transport, including school transport, to the needs expressed and the health situation observed in each territory. Inter-firm mobility plans may also be implemented by the economic sector and communities with a view to thinking differently about the journey from home to work and offering a full and secure transport offer; This is for example the case in the Lyon metropolis. The success of the deconfinement will finally rest on the couple formed by the prefect and the mayor. It will be up to these two actors to implement the measures announced by adapting them to the specificities of each territory. The situation in Paris and Île-de-France cannot be compared to that in a very rural region, everyone will understand that; Each territory has its own specificities, which justifies the differentiation of the definition. We need both a strategist State that defines the general framework and actors on the ground who adapt the measures and take the necessary initiatives; This is the sense of territorial differentiation that we have been advocating since the beginning of the legislature. The necessary re-starting of our economy will have to be accompanied by new rules to correct the shortcomings revealed by the health crisis. I am thinking in particular of the industrial relocation of strategic sectors and the consolidation of channels of excellence, such as the health sector. A plan for the transformation of our society, compatible with our climate and environmental objectives, will have to be drawn up, in particular by means of support measures which can improve the environmental impact of the industries and services concerned at national and European level. Europe will need to be revived in order for it to weigh more heavily, and to defend economic, environmental, social and health sovereignty so that the progress we are calling for tomorrow will be synonymous with a more sustainable and protective society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the past, we will have to succeed together in deconfining. A new date will enter our country's history: after March 17, 2020, the containment begins on May 11, 2020, leaving the containment. To make the date a single date, a rebound in the epidemic should be avoided at all costs. This is the challenge facing our country. We will each have a role to play; We will have to shoulder our responsibilities, both collectively and individually. It is by acting together, by being united, that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u181	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u182	Prime Minister, the masks were announced every week or almost every week. Beyond the announcements, it is reality and it alone that interests the French. You have not given strong guarantees about masks today; Your explanations on this subject were more like excuses. What about the respirators, those who have missed so much of our resuscitation services,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u183	Oh, no, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u184	... those ordered by the state, manifestly unsuitable for the hospital care required by the patients of the Covid -19, those necessary to rearm our hospitals in the event of a second wave? Are you really ready beyond words, in deeds? The objectives you have just announced with regard to testing are minimalist: they will not make it possible to generalize the testing of our compatriots regardless of their situation. While we have to test the French massively, the reality is that you give it up. [[Rires on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Tests, respirators, masks: these three questions are the most essential of all. For weeks, your only strategy has been that of shortage. Multiplying the details about a decoupling plan is necessary, but it doesn't remove the gaps that still exist in your strategy. Since the beginning of this historic crisis, the Republicans have always preferred the general interest to partisan postures: we have participated in all the debates, we have supported economic measures when they went in the right direction, we have trusted because at the heart of the battle there is no room for division. Unlike some of us, we were neither sectarian nor beaten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u185	Let us suffer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u186	But do we still have confidence when you come before us with a simple statement? Without a real debate, by an dispatched vote, you ask the National Assembly for unconditional confidence. You don't want us to make amends, we're making amends, we're improving.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u187	It's not a bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u188	You'd have to agree on the whole line, or you'd have to keep quiet. Prime Minister, if you were a nurse who protected herself, for several weeks, with garbage bags as makeshift blouses, if you were a liberal doctor who, for long weeks, waited for masks without seeing them arrive, if you were a caregiver who is still waiting for them today, would you trust Emmanuel Macron and your own government? If you were a student parent worried about the hasty reopening of schools without a full health guarantee, witness to orders and counter-orders, would you have confidence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u189	Exactly! Very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u190	If you were a mayor who struggles alone, abandoned from the state, to try to protect his population, would you have confidence? If you were a Member of Parliament, sitting on these benches, who observes that Parliament is now considered only as a political accessory, would you have confidence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u191	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u192	If you were a Frenchman among others, would you trust your own government? I fear, Prime Minister, that you know the answer: you would not have confidence, nor would we. It is impossible to trust a Government that we now know has hidden the truth and lied about the available mask stocks. It is impossible for us to trust a Director General of Health who stated on television on March 4 that the masks were useless, and who today recommends them to the general public. It is impossible for us to trust a scientific committee that asks for a resumption of the school on 20 April in September and which, in a note of 24 April, four days later, says its confidence in a re-entry in May. How can we hope for trust when you and your ministers have nurtured such a mistrust? All this, I might not tell you. I could erase the criticisms; We could flatter you, maybe even court you, for the weakest of us. We could shut up. But our responsibility is to tell you things as they are, as the French think they are. We want definity, because we want to rebuild the nation. We want France to be strong again on new foundations, with new hopes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u193	Not yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We want to give the French fundamental freedoms, often even vital ones. To achieve this, you need them and Parliament, which represents them. You will not succeed without them or without us! Your actions are not up to your declarations of love in Parliament. Don't get used to a degraded form of our democracy. Change your habits: at last tell the truth, agree to listen to us, stop seeking excuses. Without that, if we remain in the current situation, trust is not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u195	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u196	For six weeks now, our country has been confined, six weeks that we all live, for our loved ones and for ourselves, in the anguish of this fearful, invisible and unpredictable virus. Some experience fatigue and weariness, but they also experience grief and grief. Let me think about all the bereaved families since the beginning of this crisis. This period is more difficult to live when one lives with several people in a small apartment, when one does not have at home the means of communication necessary to learn, to distract, to exchange; We measure the sense of isolation that many of our seniors may experience. It is even more difficult to live when it becomes impossible to fill the refrigerator or when tensions within the family lead to daily violence. Yet, thanks to our collective efforts, the results are there: solidarity, respect for confinement, acceptance of the rules have allowed several regions to be spared. The most affected regions are finally seeing their rates of hospitalization decline. Hope is reborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u197	It's too early to say. What an irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u198	It's a first battle won. For the past six weeks, collective intelligence has been at the service of the fight against the virus, to curb the epidemic, to make daily life more bearable, and to think about tomorrow. Each actor was able to put his skills at the service of others, remaining within the scope of his responsibilities, but having dropped the partitions. In any case, I was able to see this from our administrations and their officials in my department, Val-d'Oise. Prefet, Academic Director of National Education Services – DASEN –, Director of the Regional Health Agency – ARS –, elected officials, law enforcement and relief forces, civil society actors, economics and associations, all participated. While confinement reduces us to a de facto immobilism, we have never been so agile, so quick to listen and work together. As the President of the Republic announced in his last speech, 11 May will mark the beginning of a new stage. Nurseries, schools, colleges and high schools will be able to reopen cautiously and gradually. Our opposition hastened to raise anxiety where serenity was needed, plunging teachers, students and parents into doubt and fear. While impatience prevails, some would like immediate decisions: I can understand it. But unconfining is anything but rushing; That's to anticipate. Our fellow citizens expect answers and actions, transparency, rigour, and of course humility. Given the unprecedented complexity of this operation, we must be constantly able to adapt and adjust our decisions to the results of research, the evolution of the epidemic and our technologies, as the health of the French remains and will always remain our priority. We're going to have to learn, little by little, to live with this virus. Prime Minister, I too admired the dedication of all teaching staff, not to mention rectors, rectors, academic directors, inspection corps members, school heads, school directors, and territorial officers. I want to thank them very warmly for the professionalism, the ingenuity, the sense of public service that they demonstrate to inform, reassure, and above all maintain with their students, our children, an educational but also social link.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u200	We assume that the post - May 11 school will not be the school before March 17th. Tomorrow won't look like yesterday. In making the decision to reopen schools, we take a responsible attitude, because this choice is part of a strategy. My colleagues in the majority and I welcome this strategy that is responsible for the clear architecture, which involves all stakeholders on the ground, who rely on the sense of responsibility of each individual. I understand that it will be accompanied later by details which are essential for its implementation. Thus, you announce the gradual reopening of kindergartens and elementary schools from 11 May, with groups of up to fifteen pupils, on a voluntary basis. The students, starting with those of sixth and fifth, will follow from May 18; Professional high school students, from the end of May. You wait until the end of this first stage to fix the re-entry of the other classes. With regard to masks, you have been clear: their wearing will be mandatory for early childhood staff, for teachers when social distancing cannot be respected, for college students and high school students. Indeed, despite the exceptional health crisis we face, it is important that every student be able to continue his or her education under the best possible conditions. To that end, we must do everything possible to limit social, territorial or digital inequalities. In this regard, I would like to welcome the Government's decisions, including the prompt and exceptional provision of assistance to the poorest families to meet their basic needs, as well as the plan to help the poorest students with computer equipment. This effort must be continued wherever the need arises, from the priority areas of the city to the great rural areas, including the city centres and the heart of the city. Digital has become the only educational tool available overnight, and this forced use has revealed inequalities that our school must not reproduce, let alone accentuate, but fight. Our education system must continue to play its public service role. It is an essential link in our collective life, in our society. Tomorrow, students will return to school, gradually, knowing that not all teachers can be present at the same time. The teaching teams will have to adapt to be both in the walls and outside the walls, in presentation and in distanciel. This can only be done if the objectives of this recovery are clear to everyone. In order to reassure parents, teachers and students, should it not be stated that the programmes cannot be respected, that the assessment and monitoring of attendance must take into account the situation of everyone inside and outside the school, that the priority will be to accompany each student, not in the acquisition of new knowledge, but in the stabilization of this year's achievements? "The debunking will be the success or failure of all," said the Speaker of our assembly a few days ago. We need a shared national strategy, common rules and an appropriate pace. One of the keys to success will be the establishment of a precise, operational and strict health protocol. This national plan, in order to be declined and adapted to all territories, must be accompanied by a method of co-construction with local elected representatives, the social partners and all actors on the ground: this is another key to success. No school will be opened if it does not strictly comply with this demanding sanitary protocol. It is essential that senior management, teachers and parents' associations be involved at all stages of the reopening process. This is what the Government has done since the beginning of confinement: to involve all actors in education in its approach. Prime Minister, you have declined the possible places of schooling: classrooms, home, study facilities in or out of school, or even unusual sites such as the courtyard, gymnasium, public space. The aim is to be able to propose activities on the themes of health, sport, culture and civics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u201	And daycare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u202	It will be necessary to ensure that the organization of schools will allow students to be trained in barrier actions and social distancing. In this respect, I can count on the involvement of the actors in school medicine. Trusting the actors in the field to adapt the organisation of school time to each school is very important. Schools, colleges and high schools will be able to rely on existing partners, or find new ones, to enable each child and young person to return to a pace of work, to reconnect with school learning in a common setting, and to work towards their orientation. This is fundamental. It will then be necessary, Prime Minister, to clarify the responsibilities of everyone, even if they are framed by a regulatory text, in order to reassure the stakeholders of this unprecedented organization. The question of the budget should also be addressed. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. If we want to preserve the equal opportunities of our students throughout our territory and develop a fair system, we must build together the strategy of deconfining. Maintaining the Monday 11 May deadline will only be possible if we continue to be civic, responsible, supportive and respectful of common rules. Many of our fellow citizens have been working since day one to ensure the continuity of public services, our safety, our health, our safety, our supply, to look after our patients, our children, our elders, the poorest, without counting the risks or the hours. I would like to extend our sincere thanks and gratitude to them for the work they are doing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, you have proposed a strategy based on trust, the actors of the economic, associative and social world, but also on the civicism of our compatriots. As a Member of Parliament, I will not comment, but I will vote for this strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u204	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u205	Prime Minister, of all the measures that you have announced, one focuses more specifically on the attention of our fellow citizens: school deconfinity. Because it concerns all families, all ages, all territories, and there is nothing more of a concern to the French than the health of their children, your recommendations will be examined with a magnifying glass. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education held a hearing with the Minister of National Education and Youth last week. Minister, you then detailed the main lines of return to school: return to school for all except for children in contact with people at risk, spread over three weeks in groups of fifteen students. A few days later, the President of the Republic announced a return to school on a voluntary basis. The idea of re-entry reserved for pupils in difficulty was also raised. If we add the advice of the scientific council to postpone the re-entry in September, the confusion reaches a peak. The result was not delayed: two thirds of parents would not send at least one of their children to school. This is serious because more than 800,000 students have disappeared from educational radars, despite the tremendous commitment of most teachers. The explanation lies in the distance between education, social and cultural, digital technologies and the school institution. This is serious because confinement blew up reports of family abuse. This is serious because many children, without school meals, do not eat to their hunger. This is serious because children with special needs are deprived of school, a school that responds to their disability and relieves families. I give you the testimony of a mother, for whom the test of keeping her children confined to the home is nothing in keeping a child with a disability at home. This is serious because many families are exhausted by the additional tasks imposed on them by school confinement. Defining will be successful if it is clear and consistent. It is on this condition that we can reach consensus with parents and teachers. We must succeed in this step for all students, not just those in difficulty, because confinement deprives them of the social life essential to their balance. No screen will replace, it's happy, the attentive presence of a teacher with his students. Members of Parliament The Republicans have put forward proposals to organise a compulsory and progressive return to school in complete safety. dictated by the health safety imperative, they are thus inspired by the method tested successfully in Germany: systematic temperature control, weekly tests for school staff, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u207	... wearing the mask in school transports, baskets meals instead of the canteen. Our group cannot accept a return to school without ensuring the health of students and staff. Are your proposals satisfactory in this respect, Prime Minister? We doubt it. If parents and teachers have confidence, the children will be able to return to school and their parents at work, which is not the least at stake of this special re-entry. Our fifty proposals for a successful definity have two essential and interrelated objectives: to protect people and to accelerate recovery. The subject of returning to school is therefore central. Do you want any proposals? Here is one, which could serve for the future: to create a teaching reserve based on the model of the health reserve mobilised in the event of an epidemic, whose missions would differ from those of the citizen reserve, largely unknown but whose tasks fall within the scope of the accompaniment. Teachers will be faced with a major difficulty: providing half-class courses while delivering distance education, by digital means. How can they cope with this extra work? A strong teaching reserve would help them. This proposal deserves your attention all the more because we will have to live with this virus for a while and others may appear tomorrow. The decision to reopen schools belongs to the State, but mayors must be involved and their action legally secured by a charter. Today, the most complete blur reigns. Who decides? Who supplies gel and masks? How should they organize themselves? They don't know. Do not leave them in uncertainty any longer, especially as you need them, they are major players. Do not expose them, but give them the means to act effectively. They'll be on the rendezvous. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, you know better than anyone else, politics is an art of execution. Nothing is more true today than the delicate operation of deconfination is being prepared. We hope that it will be a success for the benefit of the French and our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u208	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] Before addressing the issue of economic deconfinition, I would like to say that, after commending the commitment of health professionals, we pay tribute to all entrepreneurs, employees and civil servants who maintain essential services and have kept the country standing since the beginning of the crisis. [[Same movements – Sylvain Waserman gets up]] I will also have a thought for Bernard Stalter, who was a great president for the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts, and who unfortunately died of this terrible illness. During the confinement, the State multiplied the measures to save companies, regularly adjusting the devices according to the remarks made by the actors in the field or the deputies, especially those of the opposition. A lot of money has been spent and we could hope that the storm has passed, that everything would be better in the future. That's not the case. On the contrary, the hardest thing remains to come, as the profitability of many companies is inevitably expected to deteriorate during the period of economic decay due to the additional expenditure they will have to incur and the decline in their turnover. The challenge is simple: to save all businesses that were viable before the outbreak of the Covid-19 crisis. In this regard, Prime Minister, I was disappointed by your speech because you have barely mentioned the subject of business or the need to revive the economy. However, we are waiting for you to take up this problem with arms, because we should not add an economic and social crisis to the health crisis. Decisions must be made on a case-by-case basis as the situation may differ from one economic sector to another. I would like to draw your attention to the alarming situation in the tourism sector. Thierry Breton, the European Commissioner for the Internal Market, called for the launch of a Marshall Plan for European Tourism a few days ago. I hope you follow him in the footsteps. We need specific measures. Damien Abad proposes a plan of defining into fifty proposals, seventeen of which, very specific, relate to economic definity. I'll just mention a few of them. The first is to equip all companies so that they can resume their business under normal conditions, without endangering customers or employees, or engaging the responsibility of the head of the company. Can you reassure us? On 11 May, will companies have enough masks or other equipment to resume their business without endangering anyone? The second proposal aims to maintain the partial unemployment scheme. You have reassured us and we count on you to keep your commitment. The third proposal aims at cancelling the tax and social charges. Put yourself in the place of the merchant or craftsman without turnover whose fixed charges remain constant! He ends up despairing of being able to climb the mountain that rises before him. We do not want companies, supported during confinement, to close during deconfining. We must accompany them and, in particular, cancel those charges. With regard to rents, the Government had been in the wrong position since the beginning. It is not enough to put pressure on the big lenders to give up their rents because many lenders are retired traders, who are waiting to receive rent to complete their pension. Another way has to be chosen, for example that of the solidarity fund, which could, if it were more abundant, take over part of the fixed charges of small traders, artisans, independents, in particular rents. The measures you have taken are not enough. Companies will need real support during the deconfinition. The State-guaranteed loan, which is not repaid in the first year, is not a sufficient measure. This period would have to be extended by one year so that more companies would have an interest in soliciting it – only 290,000 companies have obtained it for 4.5 million companies. The results are not convincing, and many companies give up this loan. In addition, insurers should adopt the same policy with regard to businesses, covering a minimum of their operating losses. Public procurement should also be revived. To do this, why not quickly install the municipal councils elected in the first round? You didn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u211	It's Mr. Macron who's not reacting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We expect answers to these and other questions. You have invited us to submit proposals to enrich your definity plan. It's done. Thank you for listening to us and for continuing to mobilize to restore our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u213	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u214	We are gathered here to discuss the Government's proposed de-consolidation plan. Much has been said and before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to remind you of our responsibility for what we are going to vote for, what we are saying. I have no doubt that the members of the Government share my sentiment, beyond our differences. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I have a special thought for the Members who have stayed at home to listen to us. In a way, they are among us. You're right to applaud them. We represent all our fellow citizens, we represent the nation in its diversity and singularity. The moment is filled with emotion because many of our fellow citizens are struck by the disease. We're thinking about them. You referred, Prime Minister, to the possibility that you might not come before the national representation, because the Constitution did not oblige you to do so. That's right. But you came, and you did well. This is not an alms, because, in this chamber, the deputies do not talk, they do not comment: they vote, they decide, they try to monitor and evaluate the action of the Government. This does not seem to me to be secondary at a particular time when many institutions could waver. Ours is not wavering: the Republic is still standing, and it is happy. We are part of this Republic. Let us acknowledge, however, that, so far, Parliament has been rather mistreated. Yet he has made great efforts. Madam Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you have organised numerous hearings and been able to gather your troops, like others, but the horizon for returning to normal is far from clear. Our agendas are totally messed up. We're even approaching ridicule with the organization of today's debate. On the evening of 13 April, the President of the Republic announced a debate on tracking. Last week, at the last minute, we pulled a vote. This weekend, the programme has changed again in favour of a global discussion on deconfinement, but today, by listening to you, Prime Minister, we are learning that we are moving backwards: we will finally have a debate on tracking, on digital, followed by a vote. This is obviously a chance, and we appreciate it, but you will agree that these multiple twists undermine the credibility of public speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u215	We need flexibility and agility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u216	[[Smile]] You speak of agility, dear colleague, but at this point it becomes gymnastics that can hurt adductors. I would not like to see any difficulty for the Prime Minister, especially at this time when we need him so much. So I wonder if this is the latest version. Should we believe you? I hope so. What is unfortunate is that public opinion is disturbed by this gymnastics – at this stage, one can even speak of high-level sport. I am bouncing on our colleague's expression, but it is not, in the dramatic situation that we are going through, to show inappropriate humour. If we have so many difficulties and if we insist so much on tracking, it is because it is indicative of the state of opinion concerning individual and public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u217	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u218	All right, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u219	It's not nothing. Since March 23, we have been living in a state of emergency. I say this with all the more responsibility as I was present to defend the state of emergency on behalf of the Republican Group in March. I voted, we voted, for this state of health emergency, because it was necessary. However, since 23 March, we have been living in an exorbitant state of emergency under ordinary law. In this context, it is important that we address individual and collective freedoms. The state of emergency has not simply affected one or two elements of positive law: it is entire sections of social law, criminal law, social security law, local government law and the law of obligations that have been shaken; It is great principles of constitutional value that have been shammed, such as freedom to come and go. This is not nothing, especially since these emergency powers will be in force for another two months, since a new law, we are told, will extend them until 23 July. You will understand that the debate that we would like to have, and that we will, I hope, have on tracking, "coping" according to some or the generalization of electronic bracelets, according to others, is an important debate. I do not claim that the electronic bracelet will be generalized, Prime Minister, but understand that individual and collective freedoms are of concern to all our citizens. CNIL is not, as a matter of principle, hostile to tracking. Last week, it delivered an opinion which is, in a way, a specification: since it was not seized of a particular project, it made important recommendations. Prime Minister, we must also insist on our digital sovereignty. There is no point in having a national server if data processing is carried out outside the country. This is what is happening with Microsoft, which has signed a data warehouse contract with the state. Let's be careful. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If fear is sometimes a bad counselor, it also leads us to question the foundations of our democracy, which is rather happy. This can bring us together: there is nothing worse than the trivialization of the infringements of the founding principles of the great freedoms that are the foundation of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u220	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u221	I would like to thank all the speakers for their proposals, when they made them, for their questions, when they asked them, and even for the injunctions they were able to issue to us. This debate is useful and I thank them very sincerely, with a more particular thought for those who follow the logic that I have outlined. In my speech, I tried to present the principles of deconfining. I am well aware that by describing principles or a comprehensive strategy, the question of the precision of the measures to be implemented is being confronted. But if I have spent time on the principles and instruments that we will use, it is because our plan is based on the support of the French. However, it was not possible to adhere to specific measures without understanding what the Government wanted to do. The principles on which the strategy I have put forward must be clearly articulated and understood so that this strategy can be implemented effectively. It was therefore necessary to describe the principles – the reconciliation of the health imperative and the need for continuity in the life of the nation –, the instruments – masks, tests and isolation – and the overall strategy. Many of you have said: there are still questions. You are absolutely right, there are still a considerable number of them; I'm perfectly aware of that. But, if I may say so, it is inherently that there are still questions, because the national deconfining plan is a national strategy, composed of a general architecture, which I have just presented, and an addition of local deconfining plans which offer, within a global framework, the possibility of implementing these principles, of correcting them if necessary, of adapting them, when it is necessary, common by commune, department by department, so that they can find an application on the ground. I am fully aware that this is a classic discussion of our political history between, on the one hand, those who think that it is preferable to set out some principles in order to enable the territories, as is sometimes said, the elected representatives, trade unions and employers and businesses to specify locally, according to their abilities and specificities, the best instruments, and, on the other hand, those who believe that a national plan must provide for provisions that apply everywhere in the same way, without which the risk of inefficiency, disorder or even a break in equality would run. This debate is recurrent in French political history and I am sure it will go through our future discussions. We're on a ridge line. I am telling you frankly, ladies and gentlemen: I would prefer that this is not the case. It's been a long time since I'd like to have good decisions to make. At the moment, I choose, among the wrong decisions, those that are less bad than others. We're on a ridge line. Everyone understands what I mean by that: we must avoid going too far on one side, otherwise it is the disaster, but we must avoid going too far on the other, otherwise it is also the disaster. To move forward on a ridge line, we need caution, but we need to move forward. I thank the speakers who have made proposals. Some seem to me to be able to be taken into account. For others, I admit I have more doubts. When President Mélenchon invites me to planning, planning and planning, I do not say that this is irrelevant, but I am not sure that this is the model that the majority of the country wants to build. However, I hear his proposal. President Abad invites me to trust the territories and advocates differentiation. I feel like I said exactly that. Trusting the territories and advocating differentiation means not dictating everything to the territories; It is setting the framework and leaving to the genius of local decision-makers the ability to find the right solutions. Of course, it will probably not be the same everywhere, but it is no big deal: the important thing is that it works well, and that it remains consistent with the national strategy. Mr Daniel Fasquelle made proposals in the economic field. We have already put forward support measures which he has been kind enough to mention, and others which he has not mentioned, such as the support plan for restaurants, cafes and hotels whose situation is specific because they are not allowed to operate and are closed. They will have to be accompanied long-term because if the present is extremely harsh for them, the future will also be complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u222	That means canceling charges!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u223	We need a re-opening schedule!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u224	The future is complicated, because they will have to work differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u225	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u226	We all know that the profitability of some establishments depends on the intensive use of space; It is enough to enter any Parisian café to realize it, but it is also true outside Paris. Since distancing measures will remain in effect for some time, it will be difficult for restaurants and cafes to regain the economic balance before they are closed. They will therefore have to be accompanied, as the President of the Republic indicated at the end of a meeting with representatives of trade union organizations in the sector. He spoke about the maintenance of the solidarity fund after May, the exemption of social contributions for the sector's SMEs and businesses during the closure period and the need for a recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u227	And the installation of mayors, with the public order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u228	I'm going to go, Mr. President Jacob. You are right, Mr Fasquelle, to say that the economic crisis – the one that is already there, and the one that will come – is a matter of great concern. I am concerned because if a few very large companies, which are not the most fragile because they functioned long before confinement, would collapse, then, by domino effect, a myriad of all small industrial enterprises, indispensable not only for the production of these large companies, but for the sovereignty of the nation, would be threatened. Many of you have questioned the conditions under which we wanted to intervene to save Air France. But, behind the rescue of airlines, there is the future of aircraft manufacturers; and behind the future of aircraft manufacturers, there is an essential part of the industrial fabric of the whole South-West...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u230	[[Smile]] It even goes from Montpellier to Nantes, sometimes to Le Havre. We must be aware that if the difficulties of these companies weakened them to the point of eliminating them, the whole French industrial fabric would be compromised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u231	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u232	When I was talking about the risk of collapse, that's also what I was thinking. It is therefore necessary to provide for the means to accompany companies during the crisis and to safeguard what may be, before reviving what may be. That's indispensable. It is true that I have not mentioned these aspects in detail, because I have not dealt with all the issues. I did not mention, for example, plans to resume activity in the administrations heavily affected by confinement. Some cited the case of justice. This is probably where the resumption of activity will be the most difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u233	In the short term!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u234	Mrs. Keeper of the Seals could explain it even better than I do, but justice is in fact something of a flow activity, which must therefore be practiced continuously. However, it was subject to stock problems before containment, which, if I may say so, already led to production delays in a large number of areas. It should also be remembered that this activity had been disrupted in the months preceding the epidemic by a strike movement, each of which bears in mind the importance and consequences. It is therefore true that, in many sectors, the recovery of activity will be difficult. I have asked each of the ministers to prepare for the decoupling and resumption of activity in the field which is within their purview, which is natural. I am sure, Mr. Gosselin, that you will have the opportunity to ask questions to the guard of the seals, who will answer them. Of course, I recognize the importance of your concerns about public freedoms. Many of you have raised the issue of digital application, some to worry about it, others to be happy about it. I repeat: the debate will take place, I have committed myself to it. There are many exciting theoretical questions at this time: however, there are still more difficult practical questions. I suggest you focus on these.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u235	That's why I come back to the installation of the mayors elected in the first round!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u236	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] When we know that the application works, theoretically this question will become practical and we can then look at it. On the other hand, to ask the question before the instrument works seems to me not uninteresting but perhaps a little premature: this is the reason for my remarks. I personally look forward to discussing this, because it is quite a subject and we have the right to ask ourselves delicate questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u237	Since the appointment is made, it's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u238	Some of you have asked how the breakdown would take place, especially in the school environment. I am aware that this is probably the most worrying subject for our fellow citizens. Answers have been provided today. We have stated that we will discuss the subject with local elected associations and that we will allow school principals the opportunity to formulate proposals and share with us the organization they think best for their institution, depending on the configuration of the premises, which can command, or the involvement of staff. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] There is a need to trust teachers and principals, as well as principals of colleges, for pupils in the sixth and fifth grades, so as to find the most appropriate solutions on a case-by-case basis that will be best accepted. I am certain that a solution imposed from above, which would be applied locally without any room for manoeuvre, would ultimately always be criticized as being beyond or below the needs. Let us trust local actors, whether elected or State officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u239	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u240	Although it is currently difficult to compare the policy in France with those in comparable countries in terms of educational continuity, I am not sure that we will have to be ashamed of our action in this area. Even if educational continuity is not perfect, for lack of totality – we know that the link could not be ensured in time with some children – I am sure that we will see that it has been ensured rather in good conditions, if not better than elsewhere. In any case, I would like to greet all those responsible for it and who have made a great deal of commitment. Some Members have gone back to the nature of this statement, followed by a debate and a vote. I would like to recall that, by using the provisions of Article 50-1 of the Constitution, I am not outside the constitutional framework. This is a good article, since it provides for a general debate not on a text but on a declaration, i.e. on a political position, on a commitment: that is what we are doing right now. I repeat: to allow everyone not just to express an opinion but to take a stand individually and to vote on such a subject seems to me appropriate. If I hear the criticisms, I accept the method that has been chosen, which offers the opportunity to vote. Very good questions have been asked, notably by President Lagarde. If I have already provided answers in my statement, some will still need to be clarified not only by the Government but also in the context of open discussions with local authorities, particularly in the areas of school and commerce. Tomorrow morning, the question-and-answer meeting of the Government, which will take place at 11 a.m., will allow the deputies to ask the ministers for clarification on the scope of the measures presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u241	What about the mayors' installation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u242	I have pointed out, in meetings where you were present, I believe, that I am in favour of the earliest possible installation of the municipal councils elected in the first round, because it is important for democracy. Their installation will enable them to start making legitimate and indispensable decisions, in particular with regard to investment or coordination with the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u243	And public order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u244	The law that you passed sets 23 May as the decision whether or not to engage in the installation of municipal councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u245	Not for those who were elected in the first round! There's nothing in the law about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u246	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Of course you do, Mr. President Jacob!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u247	Mr. Jacob doesn't know the law he passed! He doesn't know his files!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u248	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will not open a debate from this rostrum. The law provides for two reports: a first on the possibility of installing the municipal councils elected in the first round; a second on the possibility of organising the second round before 28 June at the latest. The mere fact that we were talking about a deconfination in May will, I hope, allow the installation of the elected councils from the first round. I am pleased to share your concern about this: indeed, this is not always the case. The game we all have to play together is formidable. One of you reminded us that policy is sometimes an art of execution: it will be the case of definity. I approach her with great modesty because the part is complicated. I have told you of my concerns, particularly about medicines, even if I am less concerned about the subject today, or about the evolution of behavior, even if I think that the civicism of the French will achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. It is because I am able to convey my concerns to you, that I also want to share my confidence with you. The game we have to play is difficult and risky, I repeat: that is why we must be careful. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Laure de La Raudière also applauds]] However, we will not succeed, we will not succeed unless we are confident. Trust is neither unconsciousness nor bliss: it is to know that our country has, in itself, the exceptional resources necessary to face this difficult part. I wanted to conclude on that trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u249	The debate is closed. Before we vote on the Government's statement, I shall give the floor to one speaker per group for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u250	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr François Pupponi.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u251	Every day, our compatriots share with us their apprehensions and questions. Is your speech, Prime Minister, enough to reassure them? Will he reassure parents who hesitate to entrust their children to school as of May 11th? Will it reassure the mayors and the elected representatives, especially taking into account the opinion of the scientific council? Will he reassure employees who go to work despite the lack of masks and who are about to use public transport fear in the stomach? Will it reassure closed businesses, especially restaurants and cafes? Members of the Liberties and Territories Group do not think so. We think this is all the less so as our compatriots have observed significant discrepancies between what they have heard and what they have seen. We have listened: you have detailed six axes of deconfinement, and if you have answered some questions, so many others remain, you have acknowledged, whether they are masks, tests – even if we are witnessing an improvement – the conditions for the resumption of economic activity, the conditions for the opening up of transport. And what about the most precarious French? Associations report this dead angle of your action. However, without delay we must take a decision on such a plan, without further study, without being able to exercise a right of amendment, without having the opportunity to make proposals and to be heard, even though this plan addresses major public health issues and will have a major economic, social or public freedoms impact. Such a procedure does not, in our view, guarantee a satisfactory democratic functioning of our institutions. Prime Minister, Members of the Liberties and Territories Group have always been at the meeting: we have recently passed the emergency laws, giving you the frankest orders. As we assumed our responsibilities, we voted on the two amending finance bills. Today, we will not follow you. What was the reason for such an early debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u252	Why so early?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u253	You could present your plan today, then, even if it is unusual, then engage in consultations with the communities, before coming to Parliament to hold a debate, as in the Senate, where it will take place on May 4. Presenting today's debate as a gift to Parliament seems to us a little exaggerated,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u254	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u255	... especially since it had to have as its object the digital application StopCovid. Today, however, we learn that the debate on this subject is postponed to a later date. We can understand some of the troubles. The unprecedented nature and scale of the current crisis are such that it is impossible to predict everything. However, some stubbornness does not leave to question the majority's view of the exercise of power, of that verticality, with which you have obviously not yet broken. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In the light of the elements that you have just presented to us and given the shortcomings that I have mentioned, the vast majority of members of our group will not support your plan: they will vote against or abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u256	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u257	Prime Minister: "We are at war! We're at war! We're at war! » In the mouth of the President of the Republic, this phrase was used as a magic formula to excuse all your lies, your artifices, your scandals since the beginning of the crisis. We are not at war: we have to deal with a pandemic, a pandemic that indicates that ecological bifurcation has begun. Besides, your war rhetoric finds its limits. You are presenting us today with a plan of deconfinement, not the signature of an armistice with the coronavirus. The virus is a biological phenomenon, which has nothing but to do with your great words and your warrior metaphors. It gives us to see what other crises, perhaps even more serious, can produce. You did not say a word in your statement about the terrible social crisis that affects so many French people, neither for families who are more afraid of starvation than Covid-19, nor about the explosion of future unemployment. Your deconfinity plan is risky, you get rid of your responsibilities over parents, teachers, business leaders, local elected officials. What is worse, even more: you have evoked a debunking that will be based on the civicism of the French. That's horrible! Take on the role of State planning to ensure the health security of the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u258	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u259	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we were really at war, what a pitiful warlord would you do, who leaves the caregivers supposedly at the front without ammunition, with garbage bags as a superblouse, who delivered mouldy masks overseas, who allowed the companies to expose their employees, which led in particular to the death of Aisha, cashier at Carrefour, the sequels of the Covid -19, or who leaves a part of the population in anguish not to eat to his hunger. Yes, you're at war, but certainly not against the coronavirus. If we were at war, you would have nationalized Luxfer, the only European producer of medical oxygen bottles, now closed by the greed of shareholders, or Famar, which manufactures twelve medicines of major therapeutic interest. You would have requisitioned the companies to produce the tests and masks that everyone knows now that, no, Mrs. Ndiaye, they're not useless: they're just missing us. If that had been the case, you would have done as in 1916, when Parliament voted a tax against war profiters. It was a matter of making the companies that had benefited from the national misfortune pay. There are many of them today and they have names: Amazon, with its CEO Jeff Bezos, who has taken 24 billion euros since the beginning of the crisis, OGF, funeral directors company, profiter of death, who has taken 55 euros from families who have come to gather on the body of a loved one. There are many more. Meanwhile, healthcare workers earn an average of 1357 net euros per month and cashiers 1150 euros when working full-time. If we were at war, you would have done as in August 1914 and suspended the rents. Parliament considered it unacceptable that families of combatants could be expelled when they risked their lives for the country. No, the only war you're waging is against the general interest. The Labour Code remains your compulsive adversary: you have abrogated days of reduction of working time and rest of employees and you are attacking 35 hours and Sunday rest, even though the number of unemployed will be such that it is necessary to reduce working time for everyone to be able to work. You also punish labour inspector Anthony Smith simply because he did his job defending workers' rights. With billions, you bail out the banks of polluting companies: 7 billion euros for Air France, while only 39 million euros are spent on food aid for our citizens. You refuse to re-establish the solidarity tax on wealth, you refuse to cap the price of fabric masks, supposedly so as not to curb innovation, while the urgency is to curb the epidemic. You refuse to prohibit the payment of dividends...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u260	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u261	You prefer to send the Minister of Economy and Finance, all penaud, the beret in hand, timidly ask the companies not to distribute them. The result is brilliant: 4.7 billion were paid to the shareholders of Allianz, 3.9 billion to those of BNP Paribas, 1.8 billion to those of Total and 353 million to those of Michelin. And all this while this last company, for example, which employs some 20,000 employees in France, benefits from partial unemployment measures financed with public money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u262	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u263	These companies privatize profits, you socialize losses; Billions for them, crumbs for us. We thought that you had understood the damage caused by your policies, that you had understood that it was necessary to stop destroying the public hospital, to break our common property, to destroy ecosystems, to let the private govern our lives and deprive us of everything. But you'll never change, even in this terrible moment of shock. The crisis is not a parenthesis: it shows the flaws that you have created in the organization of our collective life. Returning to normal, returning to the very situations which gave its magnitude to the crisis, returning to a country of 9.8 million poor at the same time as it beats the European record of the number of millionaires, returning to a President who despises those who, today, ensure a dignified life for us – caregivers, cashiers, garbagemen, drivers, all those people whom he said yesterday again that it was nothing: we already see it coming your recovery plan that will put pressure on our ecosystems! We already see your next world emerge, so similar to the one before, even more predatory and destructive. We want a world of peace and solidarity that respects our dignity. The group La France insoumise will vote against your plan of deconfinement, because you have not contained our anger. For us, it is: never again this, never again you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u264	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u265	Ass record in five minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u266	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u267	Since frankness is the mother of fraternity, let me be frank: we will not vote for your plan, because it leaves too much room for approximations. However, in the face of such a virus, it is dangerous. In addition, even as a second wave arrives, it refers the task of organizing deconfinement to the regions, to the elected representatives – the local elected representatives in particular –, to the associations, to the entrepreneurs, to the teachers, to the organizers of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u268	You're not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u269	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] You do not announce any additional human and financial means to implement your strategy, be it for national education, for testing, so that as many masks as possible are free for all citizens. Worse, you even send back to the French the task of making them themselves. There will be on one side LVMH's haute couture mask, the one that Bernard Arnault will wear,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u270	It's miserable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u271	... and the other one sewn in the quarters, with a lot of love and a few pieces of fabric. You even announce that the success of your strategy will be based on the civicism of the French. But if they show civicism, if they are responsible and major, what will be said about the role and responsibility of the State? Like many here, we regret the haste and the lack of resources, which lead you to propose an imperfect and incomplete plan which unfortunately continues to sow doubt. We do not share the way in which you discharge mayors and businesses from the implementation of your plan. You invite, you encourage, you encourage, while you should establish rules, organize and control. Listen to the elect! Listen to the social partners! We share the concern to do so with them; But this does not mean that they must be held accountable for implementing your plan and decisions. We share your desire for a gradual deconfination, both in time and across the country, but it is not improvising. You have had to take into account the anger of the population, its fear of reopening schools. While we welcome the fact that high schools do not reopen immediately, we do not share your choice to reopen schools on 11 May, on a voluntary basis and without any additional resources. Those who are partially unemployed, and therefore receive a partial wage, will have no choice, nor will those who risk losing their jobs and are willing to do anything to keep them: they will put their children back in school. As for those who do not want to return their children to school, will they be able to keep them at home without risking punishment or dismissal? With regard to these situations, what are you planning? We ask you to ensure that all conditions of health security are met, in particular by allocating the necessary human resources, before deciding on a date for the reopening of schools, for everyone and throughout France. Indeed, the Republic must guarantee the same rights for all, in the countryside or in the city, in metropolitan France or overseas. The equality of all remains, even in the face of a virus. We ask that every citizen be given a minimum of free masks that meet safety standards. We want mask prices to be framed: faced with a deadly virus, you cannot continue to protect the richest and send the most fragile French people, the poorest, to buy a mask in pharmacies. We want state leadership on the issues of equipment production, piloting tests or screening brigades. If, like you, we are in favour of the creation of these brigades, we believe, unlike you, that the assignment of the personnel they will need to function cannot depend on the goodwill of the mayors or local associations. Otherwise, it's DIY! Similarly, how can companies be left to organise work without giving more rights to employees and trade unions? Working conditions, travel, hours: everything needs to be reviewed to deal with the epidemic risk. Today, the return to work must no longer aim at cost-effectiveness, but rather at adapting to the epidemic risk. This is an opportunity to completely rethink our economic model. Everyone is ready to work again, to find solutions; Everyone wants the children to get back to school as quickly as possible. But not at any price, and not to do the same as before. We want to give new meaning to work, to collective effort, to the production of wealth. We want definity to be synonymous with security, trust, but also hope. That of building a new economic model protecting every human being from the virus, preserving our natural resources, guaranteeing our sovereignty and the values of our Republic, so weakened in recent years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In this spirit, we have made proposals that take into account the reality of our country, both in metropolis and overseas, where the concerns are even greater. For all these reasons, and with the exception of one or two deputies who will abstain or vote in his favour, the Communist and ultramarine deputies of the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u272	I would like to point out that, for explanations of vote, Members can speak from their seats or from the rostrum. Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u273	Prime Minister, you have today delivered a kind of general policy speech of definity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u274	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u275	Speaking to you before the National Assembly not only demonstrates your commitment to our democracy and its institutions: by submitting this debate to a vote, you ask us, in a way, for our confidence to implement your strategy of deconfining and to ensure that it becomes a reality throughout the territory. The La République en marche group will vote in favour of the strategy that you have presented today, thereby giving you its confidence. It will do so first of all because it has requested it not only for your government, so that it can lead the plan of deconfinement by enlightening it with a common doctrine – protect, test, isolate – but also for all those who will participate in its co-construction and application, territory by territory. If the epidemic we are experiencing is everyone's business, the plan of deconfination is everyone's business. Everyone must take their part: it will be our common success or our collective failure. You have chosen the shared responsibilities: we agree with the territorial approach you are advocating to implement your plan. This is the choice of effectiveness, because the coronavirus has not changed anything to the diversity of France, our territories have not all been affected in the same way. What is needed in Mulhouse is not necessarily in Bayonne or elsewhere. For these reasons, and even if we need a national strategy, these modalities will have to be determined according to local reality. Based on the doctrine that you have presented to us, we will now listen and discuss with the mayors and local elected representatives, who are responsible for the daily lives of communes of which they have the finest knowledge. With them, who show so much responsibility, we will co-build solutions: it is a fair and appropriate choice. The running Republic Group will give you its trust, because you do not ask us to be blind. When we take a decision as heavy as that of deconfining, when we turn the country on again after we put it on the stand, with the share of risks that this entails, we do not do so without conditions. However, you have indeed conditioned the beginning of the deconfinition to an examination of the health situation on 7 May next. By deciding to publish the health status map by department on a daily basis from next Thursday, you do not ask us to make a blind choice; On the contrary, we allow you to have confidence informed by factual and scientific health data. The imperatives of preserving the health of the French and protecting our citizens are placed above others: this is a coherent and reasonable choice. Finally, we will give you our trust, for deconfining is a necessity. It is not so much for economic reasons, even if everyone sees how serious the situation is, but for social, human and health reasons. The widespread confinement of the country was an imperative: thanks to it and the sense of duty of those who were on the front line, the hospital has held and still stands. Containment has saved lives and has collectively protected us from a health risk. But sometimes confinement also puts people at risk because not everyone is safe in their home. I am thinking of the victims of domestic violence, the poorest, the poor, those who, despite all the efforts of the solidarity networks, whose actors have been struggling since the beginning of the crisis, can no longer obtain supplies. I am also thinking of victims who are waiting for a court decision, or children who are not lucky enough to have a computer to continue studying from home. This is why deconfining is a necessity, above all for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u276	We didn't say we were against deconfinity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u277	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is first of all by thinking about them, and by ensuring that none of our fellow citizens are left on the roadside afterwards, that we will vote in favour of the strategy of deconfining. "It's not about heroism in all of this. It's about honesty. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u278	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u279	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These words that Camus had Dr Rieux say in La Peste resonate sadly with the news. Honesty is what, as representatives of the people, we owe to the French; Honesty is what is characteristic of the deconfinity strategy that you presented to us today. So let us have the humility of our ignorance, the assurance of our resilience and the courage of our choices to go together towards better days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u280	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u281	In this crisis, the French will have known everything: they will have known the blood and tears, the death that is prowling, the dread of illness, sorrow and sadness. They will also have experienced the boundless dedication of health professionals, whose commitment is a matter of national pride. Everywhere in the territories, they will have seen thousands of local elected officials working without counting to ensure their republican mission as close as possible to the French. They were able to admire the ingenuity and inventiveness of many entrepreneurs and volunteers making their industrial or artisanal means available to all to make masks, to support, to help. During this period, France will have known everything about solidarity, which has been expressed by songs, taken up and shared from one balcony to another, by messages of encouragement on social networks, by applause, every evening at 20 o'clock. The French will have suffered all the deprivations of confinement: a strong attack on the freedom to go and come, isolation with psychological consequences, sometimes very heavy. But they have faced with responsibility, aware that, in an epidemic episode of this magnitude, each one carries to the bottom of him, in his behaviors, his words and his actions, a little of the healing of all. The French will probably have the right time to ask a state that has not always been at the meeting, whether it is masks, tests, or psychiatry, the eternal forgotten of health policies, but the time for accounts has not come: today it is a matter of leaving this period with respect to at least three strong imperatives. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The first is to ensure that all French people are deconfined by guaranteeing maximum health security. Nothing would be worse than taking the risk of a rebound effect, a second wave that our health care system would not be able to manage. So we need more masks and more tests, more masks and more tests. The second imperative is to allow our hospitals and clinics to upgrade, first of all by providing respite time for institutions and, above all, rest time for health care professionals. For this we would have liked your project to provide each head of establishment with the freedom and the means to organise, with his teams and caregivers, specific conditions of exit from crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u283	The third imperative is, of course, to revive an economy that has been slowing down for several weeks. The effects are beginning to be hard felt for our entrepreneurs, our traders, our artisans, our self-employed and all the French for whom partial unemployment has often been a guarantee, but which has sometimes resulted in a significant loss of income. That is why we would have liked to hear your government announce the total cancellation of charges for all traders, artisans and independents without exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u284	It's open bar!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u285	We would have liked to hear that a plan that was at least as ambitious as that of our German neighbours would go hand in hand with the investment and competitiveness of our companies. We would have liked to hear that a moratorium on any tax increase would be imposed on both the State and local authorities and for a period of at least one year; Finally, to hear that a specific abundance of the housing solidarity fund would help families in difficulty. For all of this, Prime Minister, you would have had to take the time to hear us, better yet, listen to us. You should have given us time for a debate that exceeds a few minutes, the few hours of this afternoon. Then we could have together defined axes, drawn up guidelines, offered a shared project to France, a project for health actors, for entrepreneurs, for each and every one of our compatriots. Perhaps this is how a national union is built for the next time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Since this debate is missed, as we say on one occasion, the Republican Group will abstain in its vast majority, not that it opposes the principle of deconfinity, but it cannot give you its confidence or support on the basis of a few over-general commitments that would have merited a more thorough and therefore more democratic parliamentary examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u286	[[Smile]] Your president says governing is deciding, but you're abstaining!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u287	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our debates, at least today, because they will not cease, these debates to which we are all very attached. We are here, even in restricted format, to make them live for a long time. My colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement and I have expressed the wish that the strategy of deconfinement should be serious, prudent and progressive. On this point, Prime Minister, you reassured us and reassured the French: the strategy you presented is prudent while opening up prospects for the future. The succession of different phases allows economic actors to organise the resumption of their activities. This strategy makes it possible to regain a necessary freedom, as you said, albeit supervised. We fervently hope that this strategy will be adapted to the specificities of each territory and that it can be adapted to local specificities. On this point, too, you have heard us and we thank you for that. Local elected officials, prefects, parliamentarians must be at the heart of the adaptation and implementation of this gradual exit from confinement because they know their territory, their businesses, their schools. They know what can or cannot be done and under what conditions. You trust them as we trust them and we are right about that. While clarification will be needed, particularly with regard to the resumption of public transport, particularly in the Paris region, and the reopening of schools, we rely on this collective and local effort to find appropriate answers. Finally, you have defined the right balance between the health emergency and the essential resumption of activity. It is now up to us parliamentarians to accompany its implementation with the inhabitants of our communes and departments and to listen, more than ever, to the most fragile people. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] As you have understood, Prime Minister, you can count on the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, Members whom we represent today and in whom we think very strongly, to be fully committed to the success of deconfinement. We will therefore vote on the strategy you have just presented to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u289	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u290	You have just presented, Prime Minister, the measures the Government is going to take to ensure that our citizens are deconfined. Your proposals will only be the subject of an indicative vote here, and we must react immediately, without even having one or two days to discuss the merits of these measures. This is regrettable because it is a policy of confidence in democracy, and in this case towards Parliament, that our country needs to regain its dynamism and optimism. So we are not here to discuss your measures or to improve them. Our compatriots have throughout these eight weeks, in the vast majority, applied with seriousness, solidarity and responsibility the prescriptions imposed on them. It is not the principles of definity that are in question today, but its technical and practical modalities that are worrying our compatriots. If the measures decided are not easily applicable, if they are not sufficiently clear and pedagogic, they may not be properly implemented. The Socialist and related Members hope that the gradual return to normal in a few weeks or months, as the case may be, will not be at the expense of the health and interest of our compatriots. Parents don't know if putting their child in school will be safe for him, for them, for teachers. How can we interpret the optional nature of returning to school? This is just one of the many questions that arise. Employees and job seekers do not know whether they will be able to access transport to work without it becoming a harassmentous daily fight. Our compatriots do not know how much they will pay, or how for some, to be able to dispose of the mandatory masks. Not a word either about the situation in the Overseas Territories, which is important and which was expected. Throughout these weeks, the French mobilized to find practical solutions to the problems they were encountering, thus palliating the frailties of a state system drawn between sometimes contradictory instructions and lack of resources, using creativity and solidarity. They are educated about what has happened and they would have liked them to be told what to do at the top, as they sometimes say. The proposal for an application to track people who are ill or healthy carriers for mobile phones, which many experts tell us will not be effective and which could have discriminating effects, is highly questionable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u291	We understand: you will vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u292	Finally, a wide-ranging screening, which would have had meaning at the beginning of the epidemic, is the subject of a strong question at the end of confinement. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Fabien Roussel also applauds]] As you have understood, Prime Minister, we will not give a blank screening to measures which are not practicable or which we do not know how to use. If we agree with the purpose, we are opposed to the method that has been used. Our country needs a government, not national unity, but practical and social democracy and clear and equal measures for all. No member of the Socialist and related group will give his confidence and the vast majority will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u293	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u294	Beyond the tragedies and constraints that the French have been living for several weeks now, one of the most terrible aspects of the epidemic that has struck the world is that each and every one of us is led, in every gesture of daily life, to face his own death. We certainly know that we will one day leave this land, but when touching this microphone becomes dangerous as the obligation to clean it after each speaker – which I thank the President – reminds us, that is something else. At every moment, each Frenchman will be forced for several more months to ask himself how to protect and protect his loved ones. It may seem odd to start an explanation of vote in this way, but it is about what is going on, not only our people, but all human beings. It is not nothing about changes in our attitudes, but it is enormous about the ability of a people to regain not even their previous life, but a sustainable and acceptable life. It was all the difficulty, Prime Minister, of the speech that you had to deliver today: to get out of this state of fear, not to say of fear, to accept our condition of being human in its fragility but also, as you said about the choice between collapse or definity, to accept a risk. It is the measure of this risk that will or will not make the success of what you have just presented to us and that must be built in the coming weeks between entrepreneurs and their employees, mayors and schools, students and parents since they will have to continue to pay attention once the school returns. The main difficulty, I mentioned at the end of my speech earlier, is trust. Do we trust you? Do we trust each other, not here, but in companies, in transport? Can we count on the attitude of civicism which you call of your wishes and which is obviously necessary? I want to say in this connection that I was impressed by the extent to which we French people, who are sometimes undisciplined people, have been able to show discipline, including, as you know, the Minister of the Interior, in departments such as mine, the Seine-Saint-Denis, which are so often stigmatized. Now we have to restart. Gradually, intelligently, cautiously, but restart. This restart, you tried to draw it here. As I have already said, we do not agree on everything. We would have liked territorialization to be more pronounced and local elected representatives to have much more in hand, for they are the ones who will be held accountable, not the prefects, even if crazy people increase the number of prosecutions against them. I would have preferred that we begin to build together the confidence that is necessary to survive economically and healthily. You choose to do it from today; We could have done so before this debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Sophie Auconie also applauds]] Prime Minister, the crisis you have to deal with is difficult. Eyes in your eyes, I tell you that few people here would like to be in your place and that I found you both solid and sincere, including in your doubts and uncertainties. Don't applause too fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u295	Might as well do it now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u296	If I were to vote for trust, it would probably be more to you than to your superior that I found less solid and less sincere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u297	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u298	You managed the economic crisis with a lot of realism and the health crisis with a number of uncertainties and sometimes difficulties. The Government and local actors must now ensure that deconfinity is a success. It's a matter of trust, I repeat. Within the IUD group, Action and independent, as with the French, the voices will be shared: some will give confidence a priori and others – of which I am – will ask for it to be built together. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] More than mine or ours, you will need the confidence of all the French. This is the project you have just opened: building trust together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u299	I will put to the vote the Government's statement on the national strategy of the deconfinement plan in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic. I would remind you that the representatives of the groups bear the votes of the members of their group and that the different positions communicated in advance will obviously be taken into account in the analysis of the vote. I therefore invite the representatives of the groups to vote by show of hands. Taking into account the voting positions that were transmitted to the service of the meeting, the result of the vote on the Government's statement is as follows: Number of voters 571 Number of votes cast 468 Absolute majority of votes cast 235 For approval 368 Against 100 [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir. – Several members of the LaREM and MODEM groups rise to applaud]] The National Assembly endorsed the Government's statement on the national strategy of the deconfining plan in the context of the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-28-O1198.u300	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 11 a.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
