ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I would remind you that, in the context of the current crisis, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of our Question Sessions. Only a limited number of ministers are present in the Chamber and, in addition to the chairman of each group or his representative, the authors of the questions. The questions with the same purpose are grouped together, with each question giving rise to a specific answer. The number of questions is reduced, on the other hand, the usual speaking times remain, two minutes per question and as much by answer – reply or counter-replicate if any. In order to minimize the number of staff present, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers of which you have become aware is not displayed on the screens during the meeting. Thank you for your understanding. Finally, the health rules that are now customary continue to prevail, including the following measures: cleaning the microphones during the session – I remind you that you are asked not to put your hands on the microphones and to use a different microphone per speaker –, respecting the distances between the participants, entrances and staggered exits. We begin our session with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, particularly on the topic of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u2	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u3	First of all, I want to pay tribute to our care workers, who are tirelessly mobilized, exhausted but standing, and to those women and men who endure as they can the epidemic wave. We can do a lot to help them. Prime Minister, immunologists are now formal: diagnosis by tests is cruelly lacking in France, where only 5000 tests are carried out a day. WHO, the World Health Organization, rightly explained that blindfolded fire could not be fought. Screening is the best bulwark to stem coronavirus, as illustrated by South Korean and German examples. Are you finally going to put in place a massive screening policy and try first and foremost the health workers and law enforcement personnel, who are in the front line in the face of the epidemic? Our country also lacks protective masks. The time is not at stake; The balance sheet time will come. My question is simple: how did we move from 1.4 billion masks in 2012 to just 145 million masks when Olivier Véran took office? With a delay, you start delivering new masks this week, but the coronavirus didn't wait for you. Whether they are in EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent seniors – or they are provided with home care services, our seniors are often forgotten. The returns from the field are clear: some caregivers lack masks, putting themselves in danger and also endangering the lives of their patients. This is particularly the case in my department of Haute-Savoie, where the rate of attack on the virus is the highest in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is, moreover, companies or communities like the department of Haute-Savoie that make up for your shortcomings. Prime Minister, what is your strategy to produce and distribute large quantities of new mask stocks as soon as possible? The "at the same time" is less appropriate in times of crisis than ever before. We are waiting for massive shock measures. You can count on our support to vote on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u5	Madam Member, you have asked many questions in one question. Perhaps I myself will have to answer a lot of questions today. Let me begin, as you have done, by commending the commitment of all caregivers who, at this very moment, in hospitals, in city offices and in the field, are saving lives, sometimes at the risk of their own. The great family of caregivers and doctors was bereaved several times yesterday: it is very painful for our country, for the French. There is obviously a national union to salute the commitment of our caregivers on the ground and the unwavering commitment of all those who, on a daily basis, for several weeks now, tirelessly, without ever giving up, are in contact with the French to allow everyone to benefit from the care and services essential to their daily lives. As far as the tests, which I mentioned yesterday and Saturday at press conferences, are concerned, we are currently carrying out more than 5000 tests a day, which puts us above the European average. Germany surpasses us, but it performs 10,000 to 12,000 tests a day, not 160,000 as I could read or hear it. What matters, moreover, because the objective is very clear: test, test, test! We heard the call of the World Health Organization, as we had heard her first call, when she asked, during stages 1 and 2, that only new cases appearing on the territory, fragile people and caregivers be tested. We are now fully mobilized, with all the biologists in our country and around the world, to develop a serology test to determine by means of a blood test that has been ill and that has not been, – it is without limit tens or hundreds of thousands of tests can be done every day – as well as a test faster and simpler than the one that currently exists, very complicated, based on PCR platforms – polymerase chain reaction – with complex reagents, which is available today in 120 establishments in our country and which we will strengthen in the days and weeks to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u6	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u7	Prime Minister, since we are at war, we must give ourselves the means of war. Nothing would be worse than announcing a peril without the means to overcome it. First, support must be given to the first trenches: caregivers, agri-food workers, public service workers must obtain the means of protection as a matter of priority. In the absence of masks, gloves and gel, only vital activities should be maintained. We're protected or we're staying at home! We must then mobilize mutual and private clinics: are you willing to make use of them, and what role do you intend to assign to them? We also need a war economy: are you ready to requisition the industrialists to make massive masks, tests, respirators and chloroquine? Are you going to nationalize companies like Luxfer or Famar, which have unique know-how in the manufacture of medical oxygen bottles and molecules respectively? Since we are at war, every day counts, every decision and every indecision counts. Containment must be strict so that we can put an end to it as soon as possible. This crisis teaches us that all delays lead to more brutal measures. Prime Minister, we are ready to go fast, to go strong, we are ready to wage war on the virus before it imposes on us war medicine. Hurry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u8	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u9	Member, go hard, go fast, that's what we've been doing since the first day. This is for example what we did in Haute-Savoie – I could have told Mrs Duby-Muller – many weeks ago, when first cases appeared at Contamines-Montjoie: immediately, without any delay, teams were on site to test 140 people, parents and children, because five others had been infected – who were hospitalized and cured. This epidemic outbreak could have spread and made France Italy. That's not what happened because we were ready and prepared. When I say "we", they are primarily the teams of the RHAs, the regional health agencies, and those of the ministries, doctors and hospitals, fully mobilized from the beginning. Once the epidemic is there and the virus circulates, you know very well that it is a natural phenomenon and that we must do everything we can to stop its strong spread – it is the object of containment – and to allow our health care system to treat the highest number of patients under the best conditions, which made it urgent to release places in resuscitation. That is why, even before these services received any patient, we had asked all public, mutual and private institutions to stop any planned activity, in order to be able to mobilize beds. We had up to 2000 vacant beds in resuscitation across France waiting for the influx of patients into hospitals. This has enabled us to prepare and face up, including in territories under extraordinary pressure – I am thinking of the Greater East region. We were able to set up a field hospital, transfer patients abroad, to neighbouring countries that I thank for their solidarity, and transfer them by helicopter, military aircraft or boat from Corsica. Tomorrow, a medicalised TGV – this is a first in Europe – will transport thirty patients from Strasbourg and Mulhouse to territories in which there is room – because there is room in some territories. All public and private health facilities are mobilized. In the Greater East region, all resuscitation services are also available. As for the industrialists, they are all on the bridge. We have had the state of health emergency voted in order to have the legal means to go even further and even faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u10	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u11	I would like to welcome the investment of all those who are mobilizing to fight the pandemic and who are saving lives. Minister of Solidarity and Health, allow me to echo the questions of all our fellow citizens who are wondering about the screening of Covid-19. In the exceptional health crisis facing our nation, the first logical step could be to carry out a large number of screening tests to determine upstream the contamination or non-contamination of our fellow citizens. Some countries, such as Germany or South Korea, have adopted this massive screening strategy. This is not the case with France. Could you clarify the Government's position on this choice? Lack of materials, strategic choice: what are the reasons for it? I would also like to make you aware of the problem of the lack of reactive products necessary for these tests. These shortcomings do not seem to be homogeneous in the national territory, which reinforces the anxiety of the situation for our citizens. The hospital in Dunkirk, for example, the hospital in Zuydcoote, the clinics in the area and SOS Médecins have equipped premises made available by the municipality to respond to the increasing number of requests for consultations and to relieve the emergencies in the area, but they are faced with the lack of reactive products to carry out the tests, while at the same time, in Marseilles, we propose a screening of the coronavirus to all those who wish to do so. From this example, how can we explain to our fellow citizens that there is no breach of equality, incompatible with the very mission of the public service? We need to reassure the French. Finally, Mr Minister, in full association with all the members of the IDU group, Agir et indépendants, in particular my colleagues Laure de La Raudière and Béatrice Descamps, I must ask you about the lack of resources in the medico-social sector. I am thinking, of course, of EHPADs, but also of institutions that accommodate people with disabilities, home care services or the whole of social assistance policy. All these structures face a lack of masks, gloves, gel. I know that the health sector is in difficulty, but I invite you to take stock of the suffering of the medical and social world, which seems to be the poor parent of crisis management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u12	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u13	Mr President, thank you for your question. I have already partly answered about the tests and will therefore move on to other points of your multiple question. First of all, we have not chosen the material difficulties we encounter: we are experiencing them, whether they are masks or, as is sometimes the case, reagents. I can assure you, assure you and promise you that we have been doing everything we can, since the first day, to ensure that our industry is able to cope. It turns "H24", 24 hours a day, and I also thank the industrialists of our country, those to whom we have placed orders or those who, spontaneously, decided to reorient their production to make hydro-alcoholic gel, masks, gloves, superblouses, all this material of the daily life that we did not have in sufficient quantity when the epidemic began. Before it even started, we anticipated by placing orders wherever possible. As I speak to you, we expect arrivals from China and the United States. We have set up a logistics unit to be able to import as many things as necessary, including the reagents for the tests. You are right to point out that some parts of the national territory may experience tensions with regard to reagents or sampling tests. At the national level, we are making every effort to ensure that solidarity occurs within regions and between regions so that the missing material can arrive very quickly. We thank again the logistics and all those who have offered themselves to help us transport as soon as possible materials which, to be small, are nevertheless indispensable to such a hospital or laboratory of biology. We have, I repeat, placed massive orders that are coming and we are increasing our testing capabilities and our mask commands. The question of territories is vital. I insisted, even before the epidemic began, that at least one hospital per department should be able to accommodate patients of the Covid-19 in good conditions so that there would not be a break in territorial continuity in the hospitalization of the patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u14	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u15	At this very moment, the Covid-19 epidemic is growing and the number of hospitalized patients is growing exponentially, while, in many cases, the medical equipment is still dramatically waiting. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the memory of hospital staff and other deceased people. We are grateful to all those involved in the fight against this health catastrophe. In the face of shortages of masks, hydro-alcoholic gel and breathers, medical personnel and all the professions at risk are poor and distressed by the worsening epidemic. This situation alerts us and questions us. At what date did the Government commit to the renewal of the strategic State stocks of medical equipment that is so lacking? Did you anticipate a possible shortage of chloroquine? We will also have to ensure the delivery of the equipment. This other battle, often hidden, is that of logistics. The reliability of the supply chain is essential in order to guarantee the supplies needed not only for the hospital sector and public services, but also for the population and businesses. I welcome the active and courageous mobilization of employees in this vital sector for our economy. Professor Juvin, head of the emergency department at the Georges Pompidou hospital, said: "This war is a logistical war. But the current situation sheds a raw light on the structural deficit, at the top of the state, of logistical vision, France being very badly ranked when Germany is the most efficient nation in managing this crisis. Your logistical vision, for the past few months, lacks political portage. What became of the initial ambition of France Logistics 2025, launched in March 2016 by the then Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron, under the presidency of François Hollande? Is it not urgent to appoint an expert dedicated to logistics to the Prime Minister, on the model of expert Covid -19 attached directly to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, in order to redefine the organizational priorities and ensure the management of crisis and the reconstruction to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u17	Now is not the time for the appointment of a particular expert, as it is now a matter of showing the caregivers that we are with them and that we are doing our utmost to meet their critical needs in order to save lives on a daily basis. That is at stake and, believe me, experts mobilized in the territories, within the regional health agencies, the ministry and the state administrations, night and day, since the first day. Let me remind you that France is the only country to have made a total requisition of all the production capacities and national stocks of masks and protective clothing. It is the only country that has managed to "monitor" the production capacities, stocks and needs of all actors in the territory. I have twice visited the European bodies – at the European Council of Ministers and within the framework of the G7 Health – to ask all our neighbours to do the same, so that we can define logistics management at European level. Germany, which you quote, does twice as many tests as France, but we will catch it in convergence. I am on the phone or on video conference with my German counterpart every day, or even twice a day. Look around us, Mr Lambert, before claiming that France is a devoid country. Look at what is happening in Italy, Spain, Portugal; see what is happening in all the countries of the euro area and you will see that globalisation, for years, for a decade, has had an impact on the ability of states to protect themselves from epidemics. We must not lie: when all or almost all of the world's production is located in a region of China and it happens that it is this region that suffers from an epidemic, even before it arrives in Europe, it is not surprising that production plants fall into disrepair. I issued purchase orders for hundreds of millions of masks from China even before Chinese factories reopened. I say again: encourage caregivers, encourage us to accompany caregivers, bring back the needs of the territories, but I don't think that expertise is the issue of the moment. The challenge is to be able, together, to stick together and tell the caregivers that we are with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u18	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u19	Prime Minister, in order to succeed in the overall mobilization that will help curb the spread of the virus as quickly as possible, before we can eradicate it, we need a clear and coherent strategy that gains the confidence and consent of the entire population. In our view, this is not the case with your doctrine of screening and containment. You have decided on a so-called graduated response, with restricted screening and widespread containment, when other countries have consistently and successfully opted for massive screening and targeted containment. Last Thursday, you said here that the offer of screening was sufficient at this stage of the epidemic. On Saturday, almost a week after World Health Organization alerts and associations such as the Observatoire de la transparence dans les politiques du médicament, Olivier Véran finally announced an evolution of doctrine with the increase in the number of tests, but only after the confinement was lifted. Why continue to restrict testing for several weeks, when there is an emergency? From now on, employees in key sectors who cannot telework need it, as well as confined people who have the virus without symptoms. In recent months, the Government has attempted to justify the massive non-supply of masks with often misleading arguments, such as the assertion that people cannot put them on, and finally recognize that stocks are insufficient. Would this also be, as in the case of screening, essentially a production problem? According to the newspaper Le Monde, South Korea has been able, in two weeks, to increase its production to 20,000 tests per day; Germany would achieve 10000 per day, compared to just 5000 in France. Have you adapted your strategy to the meagre means left to the country by austere policies, instead of giving you the means of a proven massive screening strategy to be able to target containment? Do you intend to implement the necessary health and social planning to carry out this screening, including the requisitioning of production units, the recruitment of personnel, the development of open platforms and alternative tests, the relaunching of a local public production of reagents and raw material of reagents? If not, why not? If so, on what dates?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u20	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u21	Companies run night and day, recognize it because they expect it from us. With regard to hydro-alcoholic masks and gels, every time an order was made, a decree was issued to simplify access to the goods or to facilitate their production.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u22	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u23	The total requisition of all stocks and production capacity is not neutral: how long had this not happened in France, Madame Obono? I know you're sensitive to it. And I know that you are also sensitive to individual and collective freedoms. But you are quoting the example of South Korea. It is true that in recent years this country has had a screening capacity that is not equal in any other country in the world, because it has faced epidemics like no other – of which act: this can be a teaching for the future. But Korea is not just testing: it is also tracking. It has indeed equipped all the telephones and examined the personal data necessary to prevent any entourage when a person was ill. Are you ready, Mrs Obono, to debate the introduction of such measures here in the House? Are you ready to follow Korea to the end of its process?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u24	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u25	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u26	I am not convinced of this, nor am I personally. We must be careful, by quoting the example of some countries far away from us, not to take only the part that arranges us, not to mention the one that would put us in default. When quoting Korea, take into consideration the entire policy pursued there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u27	That's not my question! We need alternative tests!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u28	I repeat: from the beginning, we have followed the WHO recommendations. When the WHO ordered us to identify new cases, to identify every time there could be the emergence of active circulation zones, we did so. However, Ms.Obono, knowledge of the virus – about its virulence, contagivity, duration of contamination, the number of people actually infected or the number of serious cases – is constantly evolving. The WHO is therefore forced to change its doctrine. Well, we follow the WHO, and as soon as it recommended testing, testing, testing, I replied: whose act,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u29	A week later!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u30	... and we started to be able to test, test, test. In order to define, it is not alpha and omega: we need to be ready to test more massively. However, we did not wait for containment to increase our testing capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u31	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u32	Again, it is the researchers who need your encouragement. It is not the policy that addresses you: it is the researchers that I represent here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u33	That's a political answer I was waiting for!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u34	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u35	In this unprecedented context for our parliamentary work, I have a special thought for all of our colleagues and employees affected by the disease, and I wish them a speedy recovery. Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, the President of the Republic has placed a strong emphasis on the principle of inviolable solidarity, which obliges us at this serious time in the country. It has shown its determination to ensure that this principle facilitates the work of health-care workers among the most vulnerable, especially the elderly. To this end, in a letter dated 20 March, the medical and social services for the elderly raised their concerns about the dramatic impact of the pandemic on this public. Indeed, we are already deploring a mortality rate due to the Covid-19 of 15%, gravely illustrated by the news since yesterday we learned of the death of twenty residents of a retirement home in the Vosges. I take this opportunity to address to all the bereaved families, unfortunately already many, my most sincere thoughts. With courage and self-denial, caregivers, both in Hexagon and overseas, are mobilized. For staff working with the elderly, this mobilization requires the use of 500,000 masks per day. With transparency, you have clarified the situation with regard to the number of masks that we have, which will be increased thanks to the intensification of production and several orders, for a total of 250 million masks, according to your statements. In addition, staff, whether working in EHPAD or in the home, show signs of great fatigue and concern about their ability to carry out their work. At the same time, it demonstrates exceptional dedication not to leave these fragile audiences behind, whose isolation can already be emphasized. In fact, this other scourge of loneliness is accentuated by containment measures, since the people concerned are unable to see their families. Minister, can you help address these concerns and clarify what resources will be allocated to health care staff to care for elderly patients in dedicated medical and social facilities? What support is provided for families who can no longer visit patients due to containment measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u36	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u37	Your question, Member, is about the impact of Covid-19 in the EPHADs, where elderly people are living in loss of autonomy. The latter, already fragile, especially when they are ill, are the most susceptible to the virus, both in France and around the world, whether they are in EHPAD or at home. Regrettably, it is the people who are most often hospitalized for serious forms of Covid-19, and it is among those who are affected by co-morbidities that the greatest number of deaths are found. You think, honourable Member, that we are paying particular attention to the EHPADs for which we have had to take humane measures that are difficult to implement, especially when I have banned any visits. It was a tear for these people who often have only their family or some friends to come and visit them. But it is to protect them, to avoid at all costs that the virus enters the establishment. Because when he entered, the contamination can be rapid and, on a fragile audience, it can cause considerable damage – so you cited an EHPAD where already twenty people died. Very clear instructions have been given to regional health agencies to prepare daily the state of the environment in the various EHPADs. It is about how many facilities are affected by the virus, how many people are sick, how many have died. We cannot have all this data in real time, but we want, on the mortality and diseases that can hit our seniors in nursing homes, full transparency, because there would be no point in not doing it – on this issue as on others, by the way. We do not neglect the issue of solidarity. I announced yesterday that I had given former MP Jérôme Guedj a mission to combat the isolation of older people in EHPAD. I have also heard the request of professionals in the medical and social sector who were asking for 500,000 protective masks a day: they now have them. It's a lot and it's very little to deal with the huge challenge this epidemic poses to the most fragile public, that of EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u38	[[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] [[Applause on all benches]] Before giving the floor to our colleague Eric Straumann, I would like to tell him how close national representation is to all the Alsatians, at the heart of the crisis that we are experiencing, and that we express our deep sympathy and affection for those of our colleagues who are suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that Alsace is very affected. Our Haut-Rhin department, in particular, is now a martyred department. It accounts for 1% of the French population, but it accounts for almost 20% of deaths due to coronavirus. I thank the Government and the army for deploying a field military hospital in Mulhouse, which will help alleviate emergencies. Can you tell us, Minister of Solidarity and Health, whether other country hospitals are prepositioned to be deployed elsewhere in France? I would also like to thank you for taking the initiative to put in place a health TGV that will help relieve the hospitals in Strasbourg, Colmar and Mulhouse. I also thank you for allowing the use of chloroquine in resuscitation services last night. This treatment may offer an additional chance of survival and the emergencies of Mulhouse and Colmar have been administering it since the beginning of the week. Faced with the gravity of the health situation in Haut-Rhin, I propose to extend the experiment of chloroquine in the department's EHPADs. We have voluntary medical teams to participate in the research protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u40	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u41	Mr Straumann, I would be grateful if you would convey to all the inhabitants of your department, who have made a strong contribution, my friendship, my encouragement and my thanks because incredible solidarity has developed there. I thank you for pointing out that the State has put in place exceptional and unprecedented means and I also thank all the territories that have agreed to take care of serious, resuscitation patients, in hospitals sometimes very far from Strasbourg – I am thinking of Toulon today and tomorrow, in Angers and Reims where the health TGV will make stops, each time, for patients to be hospitalized by ten. Finally, I thank the countries around us, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany, which have agreed to take a number of patients. Your question is mainly about hydroxychloroquine. Yesterday, I received the recommendations of the High Council for Public Health, which, based on the referral of seven authoritative scholarly societies, tells us that we do not at this stage have evidence of the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine – or, indeed, other treatments. It is therefore dangerous, in the absence of evidence, to give these medicines as if they were granted a marketing authorisation. On the other hand, the High Council for Public Health considered that if doctors collectively decided, in their own soul and conscience, that they could, in the absence of treatment, administer this type of treatment to patients in a serious condition, suffering from severe pulmonary complications, they should be allowed to do so. That's what I did. I do not stop there since I encourage clinical studies in patients in the symptomatic or pre-symptomatic phase earlier, in different territories. I was talking about this again this morning with teams of researchers. We do not want to miss the opportunity to identify a treatment that would work. Mr Straumann, cardiologists also warn me that hydroxychloroquine can cause heart problems. In the United States, today, a person who had used them in self-medication was the victim of a fatal cardiac arrest. Again, yes to innovation, yes to unbridled research, without limits, and by all possible means, treatment and vaccine but respecting the data of science and in that of the safety and health of patients. The French have the right to health security as has always been the case, at all times and for any epidemic. Today, therefore, the use of chloroquine in hospitals is reserved for special situations; tomorrow, if clinical data allow us to hope to go beyond that, we will not wait. But we have to wait for this clinical information without which an authorisation on my part, as Minister of Health, would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u43	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u44	Minister, I fully understand these scientific considerations, but on-site teams are ready to launch experiments. I can give a specific example of an EHPAD in which a doctor took the initiative to administer this treatment after passing on an ECG, an electrocardiogram to the patient. All doctors know that there is a cardiac risk, but many EHPADs find themselves in such a situation that this treatment, which is certainly random, is a way of hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u45	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u46	Minister for Solidarity and Health, I too would like to join in paying tribute to bereaved families and caregivers who are already paying a heavy price. I would also like to commend the work of the public authorities and of all the French engaged in dealing with this exceptional crisis, be it health workers, relief workers, law enforcement personnel, economic, voluntary, social and humanitarian actors or all our fellow citizens working to ensure that everyone has the resources to go through this difficult moment. I would also like to give my full support to the health measures taken by the Government to combat this pandemic. But the role of parliamentarians is also to raise the concerns and needs of those who exercise an indispensable support function in accompaniment to our isolated, dependent citizens or those exposed to economic and social difficulties. The professionals with whom I have been in contact told me of their pressing expectations of having the necessary protections in institutions for the elderly, disabled or prevented. They have very few masks, gels, protective kits or screening tests. These shortcomings are likely to have serious consequences for the health of all and for the morale of particularly dedicated and available personnel since the beginning of the crisis. These concerns are also expressed among home help professionals accompanying often isolated seniors and dependent residents. This appeal also emanates from solidarity and humanitarian associations, pharmacists, paramedics, relief professionals, prison staff, certain companies and, more broadly, those who provide support and support to the most exposed French people. Minister, can you give us more details on the timing and planning of the distribution of these protective materials in the territories? On the other hand, as regards the accompaniment of the most isolated and fragile people, should we not now think about a significant strengthening of civic service?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u47	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u48	Mr President, since the first day, I have spoken in complete transparency about masks and protective equipment. I have given the figures of the state stocks available: no stock of FFP2 masks and some 86 million surgical masks. I announced that we had distributed 70 million masks since the end of February, and that I had decided to destock 20 million masks, which were sent this week to hospitals and EHPADs, always focusing on the territories in which viral circulation is most active. I also announced a destocking in the next few days for city medicine. I have not hidden the difficulties we were facing in terms of state stocks since, alas, we have had to deal with them for several weeks – and this, of course, is primarily about the health professionals you have just mentioned. I also indicated, in full transparency, the orders placed abroad, specifying when I had signed the purchase orders and what stocks we were waiting for. I have also said that, in an extremely tense international market, where all countries are looking for protective equipment and where factories have taken time to leave, especially in China, because of the epidemic, it is necessary to be careful and that until the masks have arrived in our territory, I cannot consider that we have them, if not virtually.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u49	In that case, what's the point?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u50	But at present, orders for protective equipment have been placed, in much larger quantities than the 250 million masks I had announced. I also reported that mask stocks, even in small numbers – a few thousand or tens of thousands – were available all over the country. I thank the citizens, businesses and communities who, day after day, turn to their pharmacies, hospitals, regional health agencies to return stocks that they have managed to identify, because these masks are valuable to those who save lives. I also encourage businesses, communities and parliamentarians who can do so to solicit from their territories all those who can bring masks, in one way or another, whether they are buying or manufacturing by reorienting factory production to the manufacture of protective equipment. The situation is very clear: we are all mobilized in all territories to provide protective equipment to our caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u51	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u52	The entire country heard the words of the President of the Republic, who spoke of a state of health war. But our fellow citizens are even more sensitive to the testimonies of front-line caregivers, whose commitment I want to welcome, and to their repeated calls to stay at home. Containment is therefore the general rule, to which the French lend themselves rather well, even if we must not forget that in this situation there are the confined with garden and the others, with window only. The world of work is obviously confronted with this problem, with on the one hand the call to stay at home and, on the other, the militant messages to go to work. This contradiction is reflected on the ground in situations which still do not find a clear answer on the part of the public authorities. Everywhere, in the industrial, distribution or service sectors, for example in the delivery sector, the voices of employees, blue collars who cannot telework and who denounce the choice of maintaining the activity are raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u53	We need it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u54	They're not the only ones. Even entrepreneurs who want to stop production to protect their employees report having received calls from prefects and DIRECCTE, regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates, encouraging them to continue their activity. In my view, in this crisis, health protection, social protection and economic protection go hand in hand. We cannot separate the protective state and the strategist state. Maintaining activities that are not indispensable to the life of the nation is weakening the containment strategy. That is why we call on you to define clearer rules for crisis-economy, to specify what must turn and what must stop, with health as the sole criterion, to mobilise all our economic means to meet the needs of health equipment, and even to nationalise companies in the drug at risk of cessation, to strengthen the guarantees for all sectors affected by the crisis and for those who live there. In a way, the law of the market must be erased behind the law of health. That is the spirit of this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u56	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u57	Mr President, you are actually asking two questions. The first is, do we have to go to work? The second: under what conditions and how should we work, in terms of health protection? With regard to the first question, it must be understood that caregivers, who are on the front line, need the support of the entire nation. This one is, I think, behind them. But in order for caregivers to act, a large number of occupations are necessary, the exercise of which depends on the work of other employees. The manufacture of medicines, for example, involves a laboratory, a manufacturing plant, a packaging plant, delivery agents, a cold truck, motorways, cleanliness and repair of vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u58	I didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u59	I could also cite the example of the agri-food sector, which is an absolutely vital need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u60	What about luxury perfumes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u61	Can we stop working? The answer is no. On the other hand, and I think we'll agree, we can't work the way we used to. First of all, and we talked about it yesterday again with Bruno Le Maire during our quasi-daily interview with the social partners, we think that within each company we have to determine what can be postponed and what is useful in the chain that connects us all. For if there is a chain of solidarity in the health sector, the economy also functions as a series of Russian dolls, each of which depends on the others. The key lies in the social dialogue that must be established within each company. The social partners have asked for this, as I have said: if they have not yet done so, each company must meet its social and economic committee – or, failing that, in the case of small businesses, its employees – to discuss organizational arrangements, for example, the division into two teams instead of one so that fewer employees cross each other, respect for the distance of one metre or the increase in the number of breaks for washing their hands. There is no sector for which there is no solution. That is why we have created a task force bringing together the best occupational health specialists from my ministry and other ministries, who work with all branches to define, in the next few days, the protocol to ensure the absolute protection of a deliveryman, a courier, a cook or a living aid. That is how our nation will be united and united without any compromise on the health of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u62	We continue our session with questions on economic and social issues
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u63	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u64	Prime Minister, coronavirus has an impact on our lives. It also seriously threatens the existence of our businesses and the jobs that depend on them. Of course, steps have been taken and I would like to welcome the reactivity and mobilization of the Government here. However, there are still too many shade zones. On the other hand, everywhere in France, we fear once again a gap between the announcements made in Paris and their realization on the ground. To reassure our companies, we expect precise answers on several points. For lack of time, I will mention only four of them. First of all, far too many questions still arise today about partial unemployment. Indeed, the Government had sent contradictory signs, between increased containment and invitation to work. On the other hand, many companies that would like to work cannot, for lack of clients or voluntary employees. What do you advise them? Another important cause for concern is the establishment of the solidarity fund for traders, craftsmen, professions and other self-employed persons. How can we demand, among the eligibility criteria, a loss of turnover of more than 70% for the month of March, when confinement has only applied since the 18th of this month? Moreover, when will the promised EUR 1500 actually be paid? On the question of rents, then, will a coercive measure be taken by order to ensure that the President of the Republic's promise of a total suspension of rents during the period of confinement is kept? Finally, with regard to the loss of exploitation, why refuse the recognition of the state of health catastrophe requested by several of us, and recently again by means of a bill that I co-signed with my colleague Julien Dive? This would make it possible to mobilise insurers, who were largely absent from the crisis. In the current, very anxious climate, the Government must be mobilized, of course, but also clear and reassuring not to add to the health crisis in our country an economic crisis and a wave of bankruptcies and unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u65	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u66	As you said, honourable Member, there is, behind the health crisis which marks us all, an economic crisis, with the arrest of hundreds of thousands of companies. In the face of this situation, we have taken very quickly – and I would like to thank the national representatives – powerful and unprecedented measures to the extent of this economic crisis. Among these are partial unemployment, a measure that we have pushed the levers very far since we compensate companies up to 4.5 times the SMIC, which is a first in France – we are basing ourselves on the German model, which enabled Germany's economy to be restarted after the 2008 crisis. To answer your question, we analyse, of course, each situation in relation to its environment: when a company does not have a customer or order it is difficult for it to restart to build up stocks. On the other hand, as has been said at the moment, many activities are now essential for the living of 67 million French people confined to their base-life – their home – who must be fed, cared for and accompanied, and for whom the whole health system must be insured. To cite two examples, almost 100 per cent of production in the food and health sectors is over. With regard to the solidarity fund, things are very clear: either you are one of the companies that lost 70% of their sales in March – this is the case for all companies in the event and tourism sectors – or you are on the list of traders and artisans that were closed by the March 15 decree, in which case you do not need to establish your loss of sales. Finally, with regard to rents, we obtain commitments for institutional actors; When it comes to private persons, it is more difficult because in the opposite place there is another private person. In the face of operating losses, a balanced approach is needed, whether a health disaster or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u68	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u69	Mr Prime Minister, many of us have been asking ourselves since last night about your decision to close all of our country's edible markets without delay. I wonder about the scientific considerations that led you to do so, the method and the consequences. You said last night that a derogation could be granted by the prefects at the request of the mayors, but a few minutes after your intervention, the prefects received a message stating that the measure was of immediate application, with all markets closed this morning. This obviously raises the question of compensation for those who planned to unpack today, tomorrow and in the coming days. The decision was applied brutally, even where markets were secure and where your services could see that all precautions had been taken, both by merchants and mayors, to keep markets open. You say that you are asking for the closure of the open markets, but your prefects close the covered markets, where we can nevertheless control the number of people present and the spacing between them – probably because of the images of the neighbourhood of Barbès or elsewhere, which we have seen on television; But these images don't match what's happening in the country. Similarly, you said that villages and small towns could keep a market, but according to rumours, cities of greater importance, when a shopping centre is nearby, would not be entitled to it in the future. I would like you to reassure us on this point. This decision would have the effect of pushing ever more people to shopping malls, with two difficulties. First, markets are generally in the city centre and shopping malls are outside. How will people who don't have a car do it? How will older people do it? Moreover, promiscuity within a shopping mall seems to me to be far more dangerous than in a market where distance is kept and every precaution is taken. Finally, I learn that in Rungis this morning, shopping malls bought, at a broken price, everything they could buy and intended for market traders. Prime Minister, can you quickly give the Prefects instructions so that, where traders and mayors have taken all security precautions, the markets can reopen as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u70	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u71	The measures we have decided to take are aimed at clarifying and, indeed, making stricter the conditions of the regime of restriction of exits and confinement decided last week and entered into force last Tuesday. So far, external markets, open or covered, have been allowed, since we legitimately want to guarantee that during the period of confinement – which must be strictly respected – our fellow citizens can buy food – because this is obviously a vital need. In the past week, it has become clear to us that in some markets – which are not limited to those you mentioned – organizational measures were insufficient and placed those who sold and bought in situations that did not correspond to the health safety rules that we want to enforce. That is why I was led to make the decree you mentioned, which lays down a principle of prohibition, but which leaves the possibility of exceptions, that is, of opening up markets. What is the procedure to follow? Mayors are at the heart of the scheme, because they are best placed to say that in their communes, or in certain areas of a large city, the market is necessary, that it is the best means of food supply and that it can be organised in accordance with the health security rules that we have laid down – I insist on this point. You've been mayor for a long time; I too, and I know perfectly well that in the city I know best, Le Havre, some markets are easy to organize while in others, the layout of the places or the density make it almost impossible to respect these rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u72	To Drancy too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u73	The rule will be valid everywhere in France: the principle is prohibition; The exception is the possibility for the prefect, after consulting the mayor and at the request of the mayor, to authorise the opening of the market to provide the service we wish to offer to our fellow citizens. The period lends itself badly to nuanced messages:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u75	... many of our fellow citizens would like rules of absolute vigor, where everything would be white or black, without realizing that such contrasting rules would place some of them in very difficult situations. Admittedly, to make it clear, it would be easier to say that all markets are prohibited; But in some small villages, for certain categories of the population – elderly people, who are used to buying fresh produce on such a market and who will not be able to move very far, farmers, who find in the market the way to sell their production – the ban on the market would create an additional problem that could not be solved. I realize that this message – not very complicated, but a little nuanced – sometimes has difficulty being heard and perfectly assimilated. I have tried to explain this to you clearly: prohibition of principle, but the possibility, on the advice of the mayors and at the request of the mayors, of a derogation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u76	It's up to the prefects to act quickly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u77	Of course, the measures come into force brutally because the urgency commands it, but I am sure that these rules will be better understood and applied by our fellow citizens. That's what's been going on for a week. Indeed, we are focusing on cases of non-compliance with containment rules, because they are particularly shocking, but we can still see that the vast majority of our citizens respect these rules with a great deal of seriousness and civic awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u78	That is the case in my constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u79	This is a good thing, because compliance with the rules is essential. Of course we must point out what is wrong – incivious and irresponsible behaviour – but it must also be said that the majority of our citizens have understood the collective stake and are admirably respecting – I insist on this – the recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u80	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u81	Emergency measures are all the more urgent since they have not been anticipated. How can the sixth world economic power end up in such a shortage of masks, gel, gloves, tests, beds, intubation equipment, even though, as the Prime Minister repeated yesterday, the Government has been preparing for two months? It takes a health mobilization plan to organize our response over time. The number of calls for help is increasing, pointing to the lack of equipment that puts health-care workers at serious risk. The mask stocks should not have been destroyed, Honeywell Safety should not have stopped producing 200 million FFP2 masks per year due to the lack of government orders. Now we need to orchestrate manufacturing in France. In 48 hours, Charlieu's Weavings, in the Loire, for example, modified their production lines to produce 130,000 per day. So, what companies are you finally going to requisition? What supply chains have you set up? Hospitals lack oxygen bottles. Luxfer, the only factory that made it in France, was relocated in 2018, but its workers are calling for a return to business; Are you finally going to allow it? Private clinics ask to be requisitioned; what are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u82	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u83	The shortage of gel... what to say? The prevention messages ask us to wash our hands with soap, or otherwise with hydro-alcoholic gel, but good courage to find it! What is the control of public authorities over French companies that can make them? France has entirely relocated the manufacture of paracetamol; When and how are you going to restart its production? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our health cannot be indexed to profit. This morning, Minister Bruno Le Maire invited the greatest moderation in the payment of dividends this year; Why a simple verbal invitation and not a legal constraint, as you know how to do when it comes to individual contraventions for breach of containment rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u84	Impeccable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u86	Thank you for celebrating the French industry through your remarks. You are right: she was severely attacked between 2000 and 2016, as she saw 1 million jobs disappear in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u88	I look forward to being part of a government that has made industrial reconquest one of the priorities of its economic policy, which allowed us to create industrial employment in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Perhaps that is why today we have managed to mobilise industrial sectors in the fight against coronavirus. You indicate that hydro-alcoholic gel must be manufactured; We have drastically increased production thanks to companies like LVMH, Tereos, Pernod Ricard or L'Oréal, which have allowed this feat in a few weeks, and I can tell you that we are not short of freezing today. A regularly updated list of suppliers is available to professionals for large quantities of hydro-alcoholic gel. We are in the process of inventing reusable fabric masks with filtration properties – because it is not enough to do sewing to make a mask, it must have filtration properties – and we will, in the next few hours, launch the textile industry to produce hundreds of thousands of them every day. As I said, we are on the rise in food and health. But the question that you are asking also refers to the post-crisis, the way in which we will continue the industrial reconquest to relocate certain productions. Because we did not wait for this crisis to focus on the health sector – it was one of the challenges of the Biot mission that was launched in the fall – and we are negotiating relocations. These are concrete measures! That's our policy! I want to thank the industrialists who are sometimes abused by some voices on these benches; Today, they're on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u89	It's not fair to say that! Time is in unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u90	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u91	First of all, I want to welcome all the employees who provide essential services to our compatriots. Prime Minister, when times are uncertain, when our lives seem to be in pause, culture becomes a vital breath. The crisis we are going through is a health, economic and social test; It is also marked by the silence of classical cultural expression, with the closure of the premises and thus the withdrawal of scenes, women and men who make it live everywhere in the territory. I am thinking in particular of the intermittents of the show, which, even before confinement, suffered from the dry loss of their contracts because of the restrictions on meetings. Several measures have been announced by the Government; I'm very pleased with that. But they will not be enough to save many actors from the precariousness of culture. The Government proposes to neutralize the period from 15 March to the end of the confinement in the calculation of the hours necessary for the opening of social rights for the intermittents of the performance. Unfortunately, this period will not cover all unworked hours. The ban on rallies of 5000, then 1000 and finally 100 people affected the theatres and cultural events long before the announcements of the President of the Republic on 15 March. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Culture is at the heart of a humanistic vision of society, but it is fragile; It needs state support. Our national scenes are in trouble. This calls for the creation of a fund to support the cultural sector. The reduction in the number of hours required to receive compensation and the freezing of the period from the beginnings of containment measures until the total resumption of cultural activities are now essential, vital for the world of culture. Prime Minister, do you intend to go in this direction in order to accompany the intermittents and the world of culture as a whole today and for the long term?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u92	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u93	You are right on two points which I think are very important: firstly, all those who have short contracts must be protected during this period – this is what we are doing, in the framework of the orders that will be presented to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, for the unemployed at the end of their rights, the holders of CSDs, temporary and seasonal workers. I also follow you about the intermittents of the show: art is essential in our lives, it connects men and gives meaning. Indeed, today we see the blooming of many alternative cultural expressions that are trying, in an inventive way, to continue to bring something to our fellow citizens in this difficult context. For reasons that everyone understands, events, however, shows cannot take place. That is why we have provided in the ordinances two measures for the world of live entertainment. The first concerns the intermittents of the show whose rights – acquired after 507 hours of work in the year – expired. They will see these rights extended all the same and systematically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u94	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u95	The second concerns those whose rights would expire in September or November and who will undergo a "hole" of activity during the containment period. We will ensure that the containment period is completely neutralized so that they are not penalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u96	That's good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u97	Finally, with the Minister of Culture, Franck Riester, we are working on a plan to revive culture, just as we are preparing a plan to revive the industry with Bruno Le Maire. We'll need art and artists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u98	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u99	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u100	My question is to Mrs Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Madam Secretary of State, the health crisis in Covid-19 is a major challenge for our country. In order to curb the spread of this scourge and protect the French, the President of the Republic has decided a strict confinement designed to limit all social interactions. In order for this confinement to last, he stressed at the same time the importance of maintaining economic activity in our country, by asking the French to continue to work, from home whenever possible or by going to their place of work. Let us not be mistaken: it is because the foodstuffs will be produced, the supermarkets supplied, our waste collected, the security guaranteed, the telecommunications networks preserved that the protection of the French confined will be possible. Like all my colleagues, I am in daily contact with the actors in our territory and I want to pay tribute to them for their outstanding work with the economic actors. I am thinking of the state services, which are doing exemplary work. I am also thinking of consular chambers, trade unions and employers' organizations, professional federations. All responded present to work with the Government in the pursuit of economic activity, while ensuring the essential protection of employees in their workplaces. You have already implemented, in record time, measures to meet the needs of our businesses, never forgetting the smallest, the self-employed or the liberal professions. Madam Secretary of State, no matter what the cost, we must avoid the consequences of the economic crisis of 2008, which caused too many businesses and jobs to disappear. National solidarity must play more than ever before, with a reactive and proactive welfare state at its head to support the affected companies, but also to prepare for the exit of the crisis and the accompaniment to economic recovery. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, present the Government's action to maintain the functioning and protection of our economic apparatus in order to preserve our businesses and jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u101	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u102	Thank you, honourable Member, for paying tribute to all those heroes of everyday life who are going to work and thus enable our economy and society to function at this very particular moment. As the Minister of Labour has explained very well, we are trying to ensure that they work with maximum protection and that their employers demonstrate a sense of responsibility and commitment. We must also be on the side of companies and employees who can no longer work because of the lack of customers, orders, prospects and cash flow. So we have embarked on a massive and unprecedented plan to limit the economic downturn, which also means limiting the social breakdown. To support the cash flow of companies and to help them pass this difficult course, we have taken several steps: the deferral of social and tax contributions, to an amount of almost 35 billion euros; guarantee of loans and access to cash lines for EUR 300 billion; EUR 10 billion for inter-firm credit, in support of credit insurers, and EUR 2 billion in support of export credit. In order to maintain the link between the employee and the company, to avoid social breakdown and to restart more quickly, EUR 8.5 billion will also be spent on partial unemployment. Finally, a solidarity fund will be set up in the coming days to help the very small companies – TPE – and the independents of all kinds who are in full swing, as Mr Fasquelle pointed out. The first payments will take place in early April.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u103	We conclude this session with questions on various topics, still related to the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u104	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u105	Prime Minister, one of the many questions that our fellow citizens are asking is particularly important for the inhabitants of Calaisis: that of the border with the United Kingdom. Eight days ago, the President of the Republic announced the closure of the borders between Schengen and non-Schengen countries. Surprisingly, this closure, even partial, does not apply to the United Kingdom, which has never been a member of the Schengen area and which no longer belongs to the European Union. Until last night, the British strategy to fight the Covid-19 was contrary to ours and aimed at collective immunity, without any restrictive measures. For the past week, while Calaisians have been strictly confined, the employees of the port and tunnel, as well as the customs and border police officers – PAF – are in direct contact with the British or truck drivers crossing, at the risk of bringing the virus to their homes. Employees of the tunnel are already taken care of in the hospital or in fourteen. If the tourist flow has been tarnished, the trans-manche freight flow is identical to a normal situation: almost 5000 trucks board each day at the port of Calais or at the tunnel. We must check these 5000 trucks, some of which are coming from the Netherlands, a country which has also opted for the strategy of group immunity. Prime Minister, for the sake of the health of Calaisians and their families, do you intend to limit freight loads across the Channel to the strict necessary? Loads of lawn mowers can wait for better days to cross. In addition, 500 migrants live in Calais without any containment measures. While my fellow citizens are confined, the state cannot allow these migrants to wander through the streets, public transport or shops of Calaisis. Are you ready, Prime Minister, to open a closed centre, some 100 kilometres from Calais, in order to force the migrants in the Calaisis to be confined, if necessary, by force, so that they can be removed from the claws of the networks of smugglers, while protecting their health, that of the Calaisians, that of the forces of law and order and their families?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u106	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u107	Mr President, you have recalled the recent episodes. Last Tuesday, at the request of the President of the Republic, the European Council decided to close the Schengen area and the territory of the European Union to form, by integrating the United Kingdom, a single area protected and subject to restrictions of movement and contacts. Discussions with the United Kingdom have led the British authorities to change their position since last Friday. They first developed much stricter sanitary measures, then on Friday night decided to close major public places, starting with schools. More importantly, last night Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced drastic containment measures for three weeks. We do not yet measure the practical application of these very recent measures, on which I shall have a detailed exchange with my counterpart Dominic Raab just now, in order to verify the implementation of the arrangements, including in the area of traffic and cross-border traffic. The measures taken also aim to ensure that controls can be carried out between the different countries within this "confined" space. It is a question of verifying two things: that cross-border workers can continue to participate in economic life; the transit of goods is carried out under the best conditions – in a fast and safe manner. My discussions with my British counterpart will focus on this particular point. We must harmonize all our provisions and avoid further disruptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u108	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u109	Minister, you did not answer my two questions. For migrants present in Calaisis, can we imagine the creation of a closed centre, some 100 kilometres from Calais, to ensure the safety and health of these people and the forces of law and order? Can we limit freight to products necessary for the UK's economy and survival, knowing that the current pace is endangering the health of agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u110	This is the problem of the questions which contain several, which do not allow exhaustive answers to each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u111	The situation demands it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u112	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u113	Madam Sealkeeper, the non-proliferation of the Covid-19 virus is the first imperative of our strategy against this pandemic. The situation in prisons was a matter of concern, since confinement rules might not be respected. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the staff of these institutions who, like other staff, work under conditions that are even more difficult than usual. We know, Madam Minister, your strong commitment to putting an end to criminal overpopulation, both through the construction of new prison places and through the development of alternatives to imprisonment. We have also heard of your decision not to execute the short sentences of imprisonment and your willingness to release convicted persons serving the full end of their sentence. Will these measures, to which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement gives its full support, be sufficient to decongeste the institutions and prevent detainees from being exposed to the proximity of other detainees inside collective cells? We cannot subject these people to inhuman or degrading treatment, within the meaning of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights – ECHR. I am thinking mainly of persons in pre-trial detention, since the overstaffing mainly affects detention centres. A solution could be to exclude, by order, pre-trial detention in correctional matters, with immediate effect for inmates in such cases. But I fear that such an amendment will go beyond the approval of the emergency law adopted on Sunday. In that case, could instructions be given to prosecutors to make only exceptional use of pre-trial detention and extension of pre-trial detention for persons prosecuted in criminal matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u114	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u115	You are right, honourable Member, the fight against the spread of Covid-19 in prisons is one of my main concerns. Like you, I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the staff of the judicial, corrections and judicial protection of youth – PJJ. They show real courage to ensure the continuity of public service and the protection of our citizens. The rate of overcrowding, particularly in detention centres, is monitored extremely carefully. It should be noted that the decrease in judicial activity leads, mechanically, to a decrease in the number of incarcerations. In addition, I have instructed prosecutors to make maximum use of sentencing measures. In this regard, there is a genuine mobilization of sentence enforcement judges. We note that there are already 1,600 fewer prisoners in our prisons. In the context of the emergency law, I would like to go further: prisoners who will be two months from the end of their sentence will be able to carry out the remainder of their sentence by being confined to their homes; those who will be six months from the end of their sentence will be able to see this sentence transformed into a work of general interest – TIG. It should be noted that these measures will of course not concern terrorists or perpetrators of domestic violence. On the other hand, I do not wish to take any general measures regarding pre-trial detention. As you know, Mrs Vichnievsky, pre-trial detention falls within the competence of the judges of the seat, who are independent. In addition, it is generally ordered only if there is evidence that there is a fear of a new move to act or of pressure on the victims. Finally, in criminal matters, it concerns serious offences. It seems to me that the mechanism we have built allows us to ensure the safety of the French and the continuity of the public service. It's a balanced arrangement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u117	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u118	Once again, the French show an immense momentum of solidarity and courage. They give the best of themselves, especially to help the homeless. Associations and professionals face shortages of masks, gel, food, hygiene products and basic necessities. They lack human resources and are unable to ensure the health security of volunteers and homeless people. Of course I'm thinking about the Restaurants du coeur too. I would like to evoke, with emotion and in a spirit of fraternity, people who live alone in the city, in deprived neighbourhoods, or in rural areas. With confinement, they feel even more abandoned, and destitute. They are sometimes in need and have anxiety as the only company. Prime Minister, are you going to give the associations and professionals who are calling on us enough resources to help all those who need it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u119	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u120	Thank you for your question, Mr Lassalle, because it allows me to greet the workers of the shadows. Since the beginning of the health crisis, much has been said about caregivers, these soldiers on the front, and professionals in the medical and social sector, but social workers and volunteers who form the great family of the social world are also working hard. They never ask themselves whether or not they can act; their only concern is how to continue to care for those who need it. Your question therefore allows me to pay tribute to them because, as you said, they give the best of themselves. By going yesterday to one of the many hotels that we requisitioned to shelter people living without a fixed home – the Kellermann Hotel, which has nearly four hundred rooms – the President of the Republic himself wanted to testify to the recognition of the nation. But beyond the tribute we must pay them, we must above all support them and work with them, giving them the financial means to fully accompany those who suffer. [[Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer applauds]] With regard to people living without a fixed home, we have, for the past ten days, requisitioned hotels to shelter them. Last night, more than three thousand places had been allocated to them. New resources, amounting to EUR 50 million, have been made available for this purpose. We also want to support teams that give the best of themselves to help people in difficulty. We will therefore provide them with the material they need – we all know how important this issue is – but also join them with new stakeholders, who will thus enrich the great family of the social. In this regard, I would like to welcome the initiative of Jean-Michel Blanquer and Gabriel Attal: the platform jeveuxaider.gouv.fr that they have just launched will strengthen the action of social workers and support the associations. Solidarity must not be a victim of the Covid-19!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u121	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u122	My question is to the Minister of National Education and Youth. Since 16 March, the health situation in the country has necessitated the closure of schools, colleges, high schools and universities. For more than 12.7 million pupils and students, work at home has taken place in the classroom. The school and the courses are therefore carried out at a distance, thanks to the arrangements put in place by the national education system. This pedagogical continuity is essential and aims to maintain the knowledge already acquired by the students, while allowing as much as possible the acquisition of new knowledge. At the same time, a mechanism has been introduced to organize the reception of children of caregivers. That measure was indispensable. According to the various exchanges I had with parents, teachers, directors and students, difficulties arose in the early stages and educational continuity could not be assured because of the unavailability of online tools, which were stormed. In addition, families who are not equipped with computers and printers do not have access to distance learning. Containment could therefore be an aggravating factor for the most fragile and widening inequalities. With regard to the care of the children of healthcare workers, the scheme seems to be effective, but other professionals involved in our safety in the transport, food trade and hygiene sectors do not have access to it; They are therefore faced with difficulties of custody. Finally, there are many rumours, alas, about examinations and competitions on social networks. Minister, can you present us with the various arrangements for ensuring the continuity of teaching, including in vocational education, and tell us what is envisaged for students without digital tools? Is there any plan to extend the exceptional care arrangements to the children of other staff involved? Many school principals question the administrative follow-up during the period, whether it be requests for exemption or the transfer card with families for the purpose of moving to college. Can you reassure them? Can you finally reassure us about the maintenance of exams and competitions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u123	A moratorium on school custody!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u124	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u125	Your question covers many subjects, Mr. Member; There is much to be said about the current situation. I will therefore begin by paying tribute to the 850,000 teachers in France who have now been mobilized to serve more than 12 million students. Distance learning is beginning to prove itself. I regularly compare the situation of France with that of other countries in Europe and the world, and our reactivity in this area has been unanimously welcomed. Teachers are very professional and dedicated. The whole nation must pay tribute to them. In a moment like this, we become aware of the quality of our public education service. The Government therefore intends to promote distance learning. To date, the My Class at Home platform has registered more than 2 million registrations. It is therefore used by more students, and by one teacher in three. We have also launched Operation Nation Learner, which combines various public and private media for the dissemination of educational content. Yesterday, France 4 broke audience records with a home school program launched at the initiative of the Ministry of Education. The educational content it will provide will be richer and richer. With regard to the connection to digital tools, our goal is that no student should be left at the edge of the road. We will therefore equip those who are deprived of it and send them computer equipment. On this subject, local authorities, but also the community, are mobilized, thanks to the platform that Julien Denormandie just mentioned and which we launched with Gabriel Attal. As for the care of the children of the caregivers, it concerns about 30,000 children a day and we extended it to Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday thanks to the voluntary service of teachers, local government officials and actors in the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u126	And mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u127	Mayors and local authorities too. With regard to procedures and the normal administrative life of national education, I must discuss this week in teleconference with the unions in order to consider a possible postponement of examinations and competitions under conditions that do not affect the candidates. I am going to talk to Frédérique Vidal on this issue today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u128	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u129	My question is for the Minister of Armed Forces. I associate my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic Movement and related members of the Defence Committee: Josy Poueyto, Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, Fabien Lainé, Stéphane Baudu and Patrick Loiseau. Like all the members of the commission, some of whom are present today, they closely follow all matters relating to our armed forces. Madam Minister, in May 2000, the first exercise on French soil of NATO – North Atlantic Treaty Organization –, Cooperative Lantern 2000, decided by President Jacques Chirac, now gone, and led by COFAT – Army Training Command – and Force Staff No. 3, exercise deployed in Fréjus, had as its scenario the containment of the population and the organisation of advanced medical posts, with the installation of improvised vaccination centres in high schools, schools and other places. Twenty years later, it must be noted that reality has caught up with this exercise in a much larger theatre. Since 2000, procedures have been put in place and standards developed. In the last few days, we have discovered the Morpheus device. Minister, can you draw up, for the national representation, as exhaustive a list as possible of the human and capacity resources that the President of the Republic, the Head of State and Head of the Armed Forces, has ordered to implement in order to deal with the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u130	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u131	Before I answer you in detail, Member, I also want to acknowledge the exceptional commitment of all our caregivers, doctors, nurses and caregivers. They are also soldiers: they fight on the front line against the Covid-19 and, to take over the motto of the army health service, make our lives their fight. I want to say thank you. I'm coming to your question. The President of the Republic has declared that we are at war. However, when we are at war, all available means must be deployed. Thus, in order to relieve hospitals, especially those in the Far East and Corsica, in a state of saturation, we mobilized unprecedented means, and first of all an A330 Phoenix supply plane. The latter became a real flying hospital thanks to the Morphée kit, which allowed several rotations to Laveran and Sainte-Anne hospitals in the PACA region – Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur – towards Bordeaux and, today, towards Brest. At the request of the President of the Republic, we also deployed a Tonnerre helicopter carrier to transport 12 patients from Corsica to hospitals in the PACA region. Finally, it is a real country hospital that was built from scratch in Mulhouse. He is likely to receive 30 patients in resuscitation and at this very moment receives a first patient. In the face of such a crisis, we must stick together and get on the front line. The armies are responding today and will continue to do so tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u132	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u133	Before I ask my question, I want to pay tribute to the nursing staff and have a thought for the sick and for those who have lost a loved one. My question concerning Europe, I am also thinking of our Italian and Spanish friends, hard hit by the Covid-19 epidemic. As you will understand, my question is to Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. I associate my colleagues Jean-Charles Larsonneur and Jacques Krabal. Europe is experiencing an unprecedented moment in its history. Today, it is the first outbreak of Covid-19 spread in the world, with 178,000 cases and nearly 10,000 deaths. This global health crisis reminds us of the urgent need for unity: that of France, but also that of Europe. The European Union is now in order of battle. At the initiative of France, an exceptional European Council met last week and a number of important measures were decided. First of all, in terms of health, the 27 health ministers meet daily to adapt our collective response to the emergency. In terms of equipment, then, common markets will be organised to preserve our caregivers, who are on the front line. At the economic level, we are facing great instability and many concerns – I am thinking in particular of our independents and our very small businesses, TPEs. That is why the European Commission has decided an unprecedented mobilisation to provide guarantees and liquidity to our companies. Finally, in the field of research, the European effort is intensifying to meet the urgent needs of the scientific community. This is a top priority. Several large-scale clinical tests started yesterday and will give their first results within a fortnight. They will be used to measure the effects of chloroquine and to conduct trials on other treatments, whether associated or not, on a very large scale – I am thinking in particular of a smaller French study. Minister, in the run-up to next Thursday's European Council, what information can you provide us with on European health, economic and research initiatives in the context of the current crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u135	The 27 European Foreign Ministers met at length yesterday around Josep Borrell, the representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. As you said, Mrs Liso, a new meeting of the European Council of Heads of State or Government is scheduled the day after tomorrow. There are many points of discussion, mobilization and coordination, but I shall retain four points. The first is the need to ensure good coordination between us, in complementarity and coherence, in order to allow the return of our nationals: it is a matter, at central level, of mapping the places which require intervention, and, at local level, airport by airport, to arrive at appropriate common answers. The second is cooperation at health level and the strengthening of our joint action in this area. Although this is not a competence of the European Union, the Ministers of Health of the Member States of the European Union meet regularly to exchange information on the necessary measures to be taken. Joint actions have also been carried out for pooling resources, for pooled purchases of protective equipment and for the implementation of a significant research budget package. The third is best known: it is the adoption of an unprecedented fiscal package to support the real economy, both businesses and employees, through the mobilisation of significant financial resources and the relaxation of certain rules, notably on state aid and the Stability and Growth Pact. The last point, which we are not talking about enough but which we discussed at length yesterday, is international cooperation and the indispensable support for the most vulnerable third countries, which are going to need it very quickly – I am thinking in particular of the African countries. Again, we will have to mobilise a real financial and assistance package to prevent the epidemic from moving to regions or continents that it has not yet touched but that could pose a new risk to us tomorrow: it is a question of solidarity, but it is also about our own security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u136	The question-and-answer meeting with the Government is closed. Thank you for getting out of the Chamber in a staggered manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-24-O1189.u137	Next sitting, Tuesday, 31 March, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
