ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u1	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the proposal for a law by Mr Christophe Blanchet and several of his colleagues to offer holiday vouchers to people in the health and medico-social sectors in recognition of their action during the epidemic of covid -19 thanks to the donation of days of rest (No. 2978, 3020).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u2	Mr Christophe Blanchet, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u3	For more than two months, the French thanked each evening, with their applause, the caregivers engaged against the covid-19; Many of them have multiplied the gestures of solidarity and fraternity in favor of the "white blouses": messages of support to windows or on the Internet, distribution of meals, provision of housing, and so many other actions that you have observed in your constituencies and in which you have often participated. However, confinement has also caused some frustration in a part of the population, due to the inability to contribute more actively and actively to their efforts than to stay at home. It is in this context that the group Pasteur Mutalité launched the first, last March, a call for the donation of working time reduction days – RTT – with the hashtag "JeDonneMesRTT" on social networks. The idea of facilitating and accompanying the French's solidarity with caregivers has met with some success among parliamentarians, who have tabled bills to this effect – I am thinking of those of our colleague Maxime Minot and Senator Édouard Courtial on the right, and that of our colleague Christophe Bouillon on the left. Still others have thought about it, such as Jean-Marc Zulesi, Anne-Laurence Petel and Florence Provendier. For my part, referring to the report on tourism for all of our colleague Pascale Fontenel-Person, whom I would like to thank, I sent on 22 April last, with a hundred colleagues from the majority, a letter to the Minister of Labour to defend a new idea: the monetization of the days of rest of employees in the form of holiday vouchers for caregivers. The idea was well received – thank you, minister. Beyond polemics, postures and political instrumentalizations, there is the essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u4	Ah, the good joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u5	This evening, the essential thing is to allow the solidarity of the French to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u6	He's got nerves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u7	The sole purpose of the text we are looking at is to enable employees and public officials who wish to do so to offer rest days, valued in vouchers, to staff in the health and medico-social sectors – staff in hospitals, institutions for the elderly, home services and non-employees, whether they are caregivers or non-carers. It should be noted that the scheme is also aimed at those who have not been most confronted with the epidemic in the national territory. Donations of days of rest are now reserved for colleagues in the care of a seriously ill child or, since 2017, thanks to MP Paul Christophe, close caregiving colleagues. By transforming the days given into holiday vouchers, we want to allow caregivers to take advantage of their free time by offering themselves additional leisure time in one of the 200000 structures in France that accept them – restaurants, places of accommodation, culture, leisure and sports activities. If each of the 25 million employees of the private or public sector gives a rest day, more than 2 billion euros can be spent in France in the tourism and leisure sectors. Because not all employees are housed in the same holiday sign and everyone, especially those who do not have paid rest days, must be given the right to take part in this spirit of solidarity, the text adopted in committee provides that self-employed individuals can make a financial donation. This allows all elected representatives, including ourselves, to abound. However, we can go even further during this debate by extending this possibility to employees and public officials who cannot or do not wish to give a rest day, as well as to companies and associations which would like to contribute financially to the scheme, by feeding a dedicated account. In conclusion, this text, in all humility, is not intended to meet the expectations of the healthcare staff, nor to replace the mechanisms of national solidarity with taxation. Large-scale measures will be needed to enhance the capacity of the health and medical-social sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Segur of Health has an obligation to move forward on many issues that deserve a firm commitment and a strong response from the State. The purpose of this bill is therefore to make possible tomorrow what is impossible today. Let us allow our fellow citizens to show solidarity with a person mobilized during the crisis, not to make a selfless donation, alms or charity, but because the French need to show their gratitude and affection. This is also the expression of fraternity, which finds its climax in altruism, thanks to a generosity that has meaning. It is therefore our duty as legislators to ensure that the law does not impede the momentum of solidarity among the French, and that it echoes their applause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u8	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u9	By brutally reminding us of the fragility of our lives, the unprecedented period that we are living creates uncertainties of a nature and scope that already seem to reject our habits in the past. This ordeal has, I believe, profoundly sharpened the quest for meaning and solidarity, both on an individual and a collective scale. Containment did not stifle this aspiration, on the contrary: it stimulated it, reinforced it, increased it, so that the question of why, linked to the sideration effect caused by a threat as abrupt as it was unknown, quickly replaced the question of how. Many of our fellow citizens ask themselves: "How can I, on my scale, help those who face the epidemic directly, whose social and economic repercussions we now know will be unprecedented? » The addition of these individual questions has resulted in a common momentum, giving rise to multiple forms of solidarity in the country, making one's commitment and the altruism of the other vibrate in unison, and always embodying the vitality of the social bond that unites us. It is on this fertile soil that, in the minds of some of our fellow citizens from various places, the idea of expressing their gratitude to the front-line actors, the caregivers and the medical-social staff, not simply with applause, but through the donation of rest days and their monetization. Thanks to the work of listening to the ground, ladies and gentlemen, you have been the active relays of the various expressions of the same original idea. To give a concrete result to an idea, to reveal fully and easily its potential effects in reality: this is the demand, the very essence of the parliamentary debate, of which each of you on these benches is the craftsman. During my hearing by the fact-finding mission of the Conference of Presidents of this House on 22 April, I indicated that this was an interesting lead. In my view, it contributes to shaping the new solidarity that the President of the Republic has called for. The bill you have just introduced, Mr rapporteur, allows employees in the private sector, and now public sector employees, who wish to do so, to donate part of their rest days to finance holiday vouchers for health and medical and social workers mobilized during the covid -19 epidemic. I welcome the fact that this act of generosity will at the same time help to revive the tourism sector, which is very much affected by the health crisis. The committee has completed the text on several levels. The first concerns the scope of the grant recipients, with explicit mention of the students, as well as the introduction of a maximum remuneration ceiling, fixed at three times the SMIC. You also voted to create a specific account within the National Agency for Holiday Checks, the ANCV, so that self-employed individuals – self-employed, retired, MPs and others – can participate in the initiative. We will have the opportunity to review these measures in the discussion of the articles. However, as has been pointed out in committee, and I would like to stress on this point, it goes without saying that this bill is not intended to replace public policies, which aim to address the structural difficulties of the sectors, whether it be health, the medico-social sector or the tourism sector, for a long time to come. With regard to the first, in addition to the work started before the health crisis with the plan "Ma santé 2022", the Minister of Health and Solidarity Olivier Véran has made significant announcements in recent weeks – I am thinking in particular of the payment of premiums for healthcare workers, the financial measures for the hospital, as well as better care for dependency. They are the responsibility of public policies. The momentum of solidarity, which complements, is another subject; We mustn't confuse the two. As you know, last week, Prime Minister and Olivier Véran launched the Ségur de la santé. This broad consultation, involving nearly 300 actors in the health system, is in line with the President's commitment to develop, after the crisis, a massive plan of investments and upgrading of all careers. The Ségur de la santé is based on four pillars: the transformation of the professions and their upgrading, a new policy of investment and financing of healthcare services, the radical simplification of the organizations of the teams, giving more leverage for decision-making and action, and the federation of health actors in the territories, at the service of the users. The conclusions of this work are expected in July – it is important to keep it in mind as you open the debate. These conclusions should allow us to draw collectively the lessons of the test we have passed and to build, in conjunction with the orientations of "My Health 2022", the foundations of an even more modern, resilient, more innovative health system, but also more flexible and more responsive to professionals, uses and territories. On this point, the crisis, which, like any crisis, brings many difficulties, but also some advantages, has shown that it is possible to act otherwise. Regarding the tourism sector, which you also want to support with your bill, the Prime Minister announced on 14 May last the launch of an interdepartmental support plan of an exceptional scale – 18 billion euros, including 9 billion direct aid. Tourism companies will continue to be able to make use of the partial activity with 100% coverage, up to a limit of four and a half times the SMIC; the benefit of the solidarity fund will remain open to them until December 2020, in a way also derogatory, and 9 billion are spent on financing, including the creation of a tourism loan, which will allow the actors to "hold" two summer seasons. In addition, the Government is continuing its work with sectors and territories on these issues. While we are going to focus on this initiative which aims to allow solidarity, thus responding to the requests of our fellow citizens, I wanted to recall this context so that we have in mind the distinction between what is the responsibility of public aid and what is the responsibility of citizens' voluntary work – the two are not confused. Our debates will be part of the original state of mind of the solidarity that emanates from our fellow citizens, which you have mentioned and which I invite you to follow on behalf of the Government by adopting this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In a way, the realization of this state of mind echoes the formula of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry: "To be a man is to feel, by laying his stone, that one contributes to building the world. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u10	In the general debate, Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that when this bill was examined, a form of malaise came before the members of the Socialist and related group. I have no doubt about the good intentions of the authors of this proposal, in particular of its rapporteur, and, like all of you, perceive the ardent desire of many of our fellow citizens to express their gratitude to the caregivers. However, I see it as an unsubstantiated proposal, and indeed a little out of the question, and an impasse in the work to renew the social contract to which the circumstances oblige us. If this proposal is out of the question, it is because, as everyone knows, the crisis in the public hospital precedes the crisis in the covid-19. It is in spite of these old difficulties – I say it without hindrance – and deep that the caregivers, who had been on strike for some of them for 18 months, fought under conditions and with courage that force admiration. A chief of service who was said to be admired by the French in the face of these authentic acts of heroism, had for any answer this one: "the hospital does not need heroes, but means".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u12	But they're gonna get medals, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u13	If we measure the modesty of this response, it introduces or reintroduces without delay the subject on which our reflections and proposals should focus: the means of the hospital, to care well, to work well and to live well. Of course, everyone hopes that the Ségur de la santé will provide answers that match the situation. But before that, there was the law on the financing of social security. During its review, we had submitted an emergency plan for the hospital, which it is regrettable that the proposals were not the subject of any consideration by the Government, which considered that it had done its best. When your proposal was announced, the health care staff themselves felt the discomfort that I describe and share. Some had harsh words, refusing charity like medals. The question is not that of the leave of caregivers, since, as you yourself indicate in your report, they will not be able to take their own leave due to lack of time and replacements. The real question is the number of staff, the number of caregivers per bed and per patient; the number of such beds; investment, and not only in major construction sites such as the Grand Paris - Nord Hospital or the University Hospital – CHU – in Nantes, but also in all services that have had to give up investments; It is also the level of remuneration. By offering holiday vouchers, which we have also submitted, together with regional and departmental presidents, to the Government, which has not yet responded to us, you take note of this problem of remuneration. You will, of course, also have to answer more structural questions about the place of the hospital in its environment, the management of health policies in the territories, governance and pricing. In the end, we will have to ask the question of the means that the French and French, through their contributions, are ready to grant to the public hospital: on the one hand, we cannot want less contributions and taxes, and on the other, more public services. The minister referred to the issue of new solidarity, which she basically sees in this bill. I believe that, more deeply, your proposal poses a problem of philosophy, the same one that comes up when some ministers refuse to re-establish the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, i.e. the use of high fortunes, while asking billionaires to renew their donations. It is not to understand that solidarity is an integral part of our social contract, that it does not differ from it, that it is indivisible. This is the philosophy of Léon Bourgeois, as he theorizes it with solidarity, at the end of the nineteenth century, and as it found body in our social institutions. It is the philosophy that bases the idea that social justice can exist between men only if they are associated in solidarity. Jean-Jacques Dupeyroux, a great jurist who died a few days ago, had this formula: "national solidarity is a common pot, where one contributes according to his resources and where one draws according to his needs". So it does not divide society between those who give and those who receive. All must contribute to the regime according to their abilities, and all have the right to benefit from it according to their needs. Now with your proposal, we do not know what will be given, and therefore what will be received. How much? How will these days of leave be monetized? Under what conditions will the redistribution of these donations take place? What are the possible tax and social measures applicable to these donations? That is why we should prefer social policies for all, financed by national solidarity, to incentives for charity, however generous they may be. Yes, the French and French who can do so will probably give days off, but I am convinced that they would prefer a remuneration of the caregivers to the level of the social value they have witnessed, as they would prefer a contribution of the richest to the national effort to hypothetical donations. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, as it stands, the account is not there, and we cannot support a proposal that could look like – even if you deny it, and I gladly believe in your sincerity – to a form of flight. Integrate these issues into the Ségur de la santé and into the debate with the social partners!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u14	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u15	The IDU and independent group, a priori, will support this bill. For following the legislative process, however, I wanted to express, especially to the rapporteur, a feeling which is not that of my group, but a personal feeling – I allow myself to do so because I am exercising my third term as a Member of Parliament. To put it plainly, I had read the bill introduced by Maxime Minot in mid-March and was embarrassed to see that a month and a half later, a member of the majority group was taking up this initiative on his own – at least that was the feeling I had, dear Christophe Blanchet. In short, one of our colleagues in the Republican Group had an idea – you recalled it in your opening remarks, and I thank you for that. This idea was shared by other parliamentarians, whether in the upper house or here – you also recalled it. I wanted to share with you my feeling, because I remember very well the context of Emmanuel Macron's election: it was about doing things differently. However, I would like to tell Mr Blanchet and many of our colleagues here, since 2017, things have been happening exactly as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u16	Not so good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u17	Worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u18	Would we have been deceived?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u19	Although I do not have an immoderate taste for formulas, I would say that the new world has frozen in the mold of the old. That said, let's go back to the text. You have pointed out in committee, Mr rapporteur, that the proposal responds to a request for solidarity from the French themselves, and you are right. You felt this need, and I thank you, as well as Maxime Minot. The media told us that the French applauded the caregivers on their balcony, because they had discovered the benefits they owe them and their work. For my part, I would say that they have rediscovered them, because I am convinced that every Frenchman, at the bottom of himself, knows what he owes them – whether they are illustrious medical teachers, doctors, nurses, caregivers and health workers, or hospital workers who populate our health services. Having had to call on them a few years ago, I know what I owe to each and every caregiver in our hospitals. I also know this to be one of the many Members who are calling here for an increase in the salaries of carers and repeat that it is necessary. Let us not turn around the pot: if this is a good bill, dear Christophe Blanchet, and a beautiful parliamentary initiative which, by allowing to transmit days off, days of RTT, and to organize solidarity, goes in the right direction, it will not mask this reality, this urgency, of which each of us is aware here. I would also like to address you, the Minister of Labour, even if this is not a matter for you, because it relates specifically to health and care services, in institutions or at home. [[Smile]] I have been saying this here for thirteen years, under governments on the right, on the left or on the centre – since I regard the present government as such, Mrs Pénicaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u20	More right, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u21	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u22	In any case, until now, the parliamentarians who have relayed the demands of the health care staff have not been sufficiently listened to. It seems to me that the general discussion of a bill to organise greater solidarity is the right time to say so, dear Christophe Blanchet. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie applauds]] As you have said, minister, and even if this is not the heart of the matter, this bill also provides us with an opportunity to support the economic activity of an area that has now benefited from a new phase of deconfining, that of restoration and tourism, to which these holiday vouchers will also benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u23	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u24	It is well known that in the fight against the covid -19 epidemic, some professions have been more tested than others. Caregivers, whether in the hospital, in the city or in the clinics, as well as all the personnel involved in the proper functioning of our medical-social system, have been mobilized without counting their hours or their efforts. Some have paid for their commitment to the service of others in their own lives – I want to pay tribute to them. At the height of the epidemic, and as the record grew, the crisis offered us a rare moment of unity and solidarity, which must be welcomed. Applause to windows or balconies has been a rhythm of our containment evenings, and spontaneous initiatives to provide some comfort to caregivers have multiplied throughout the territory. The lack of recognition of caregivers, on which our group has consistently insisted, has become an inescapable issue. Today, caregivers want to believe that the massive plan of investments and upgrading of all the careers promised for the hospital by the President of the Republic will not be a vain promise. To show their gratitude and solidarity, some of our fellow citizens have wanted to donate their days off to health care workers, which has led some of our colleagues to introduce bills to remove the legal obstacles to them. The text we are looking at provides for an extension of the law of 9 May 2014, known as the Mathys law, which currently allows the donation of leave only within the same company and for close caregivers. Our group does not wish to oppose this, as it is based on the principle of volunteering, but it is well aware that it represents little in the face of the expectations of caregivers and of all medical and social personnel. A few questions remain. Beyond the eligible people, who will actually benefit from it? Will it be necessary to choose in case donations are below expectations? How can we ensure that the holiday vouchers, which, according to the rapporteur and the minister, will support the tourism sector, will not benefit large groups alone, rather than support vulnerable jobs in the territories? Despite these questions, if some French people wish to express their solidarity in this way, it is not up to us to prevent them. However, we believe it is essential to recall that there are other ways in which national solidarity can be expressed, especially since the recognition that we owe to caregivers does not date from the epidemic of covid-19. For a long time, we have been alerting you to malfunctions, shortcomings, and expectations of staff. They ask us to put an end to bed closures, to stop basing hospital funding on fee-for-service, to give institutions more resources or to reform governance in order to give more weight to caregivers and less to technostructure. We therefore make it clear that other priorities that the motion for a resolution reflecting the national recognition of all caregivers and the creation of a statute for the children of caregivers who died of the Covid -19 voted last week or this proposal for a law to allow the donation of holiday vouchers are necessary: the urgency of the salary revalorisation, the question of the payment of exceptional bonuses, especially for the staff of the EHPAD, and finally that of the remuneration of students in medical training, who were very much in demand during the crisis. Until now, expectations have been disappointed, so let us not miss this new opportunity to do better, especially in the context of the Segur of Health. And for this consultation to lead to solutions that match the unprecedented challenges facing our health care system, you will have to break with some of the directions of the "My Health 2022" strategy and not extend them. There is the spontaneous solidarity of the French – this is the object of this text, which we welcome and encourage – which grows up as a society; and there is organized solidarity, which strengthens us as a nation and must be at the heart of the response we will bring to the crisis we are going through. It must enable us to finance a robust social and health protection system and ensure that we have access to a quality public service. This solidarity is that of the contributions that finance our public policies and our social security. It is essential to reaffirm its importance, to reiterate that it must be based on social justice, equity and redistribution, which must lead us to make the most affluent contributions to the financing of a public service accessible to all. It is this solidarity that will enable us to improve the careers of caregivers, who are the craftsmen and guarantors of the excellence of our health system and who are at the forefront of the challenges it faces. These are the priorities that the Libertés et territoires Group will continue to defend in the coming months, and we will be particularly demanding with regard to the answers that will be given to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u25	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u26	The world after: finally, we're there! The next world, which we have heard so much about by our President of the Republic, by our government and by you, members of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u27	Oh, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u28	Here we are...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u29	We believed it for two hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u30	...and I'm not hiding my curiosity from you. At the time, when I heard you talk so enthusiastically about this next world, mine was strangely much more moderate: you have been able to prove us so many times that you could always do worse! Here we are: the world after the Republic on its way. Before that, you voted against all the opposition's bills on the days of parliamentary niche and you did not know what the opposition had tabled. But it's over: that was before. Now here's the world: now, during the days of the parliamentary niche, you completely undress the proposals, by slipping a report request there because an empty bill would make a mess, and hop, you vote for it! I imagine the strategic, political meeting where you had this idea: "For sure, we will no longer be accused of voting against the bills on the opposition's parliamentary niche days if we do that! So do you think citizens are so stupid? [[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] As far as the bills are concerned, before, you did not know them; But that was before. Now, in the next world, you steal opposition bills...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u31	It's a tribute!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u32	...and you change them at the margin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u33	There's a comma down, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u34	But how can you? So yes, Maxime Minot's proposal was not about holiday vouchers, but about giving leave to caregivers. Stop saying it's not a plagiarism: he offered it for everyone's signature, you received it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u35	That's right! It's a sign of sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u36	Why didn't you call him or put this proposal on the agenda? All you had to do was amend it to add your idea of holiday vouchers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] When a colleague proposes a text to co-signature, he remains open to discussion. I called Mr.Minot to explain to him why I would not sign his text and why I thought it was a bad idea – that's democracy too! Your manners do not honor our assembly. On the bottom, now we'll notice your turn at 180 degrees: it's the next world. Prior to that, in October 2019, Julien Borowczyk pointed out that caregivers still demanded a lot and had even forgotten the self-giving of our profession. In February 2020, you refused a minute of silence, which I had proposed on my speaking time, for a nurse murdered in her place of work and in the performance of her duties. There would be so many examples: your smiles during my speeches, speeches and questions; Your mockery; Your accusations: "Truly, that's not true! From now on, everything is true and without ever presenting any excuse, without browing, you don't hesitate to applaud at 8 p.m.: here we are in the next world. I will not hide from you that the image of your applause in committee and in the Chamber during confinement, put in parallel with your contempt for these same personnel over the last three years, has put me out of my mind. After you mistreated and insulted people, you could at least have had the decency to stand low. No, she's not your type! To finish on this subject, know that it is not me, Caroline Fiat – you know, the liar, the one you say "you understand that she doesn't understand" – but many people, that you have shocked by your incoherence and your staging. Today, you propose to thank hospital staff of medical and social institutions and services by offering them holiday vouchers; Except that this gift, you don't do it from your wallet, but from the neighbor's. That is why the group La France insoumée opposes it: it is not for the citizens to thank the personnel on the front line during the crisis of the covid-19, it is for the State! In the words of a Member of Parliament, who is present today: "When you buy generosity at a good price on the backs of companies, it's still a little easy. This is not on the backs of companies, but on the backs of employees – but you are not at a close contradiction. Why only hospital staff and medical-social institutions and services? The employees of the free services, the territorial agents, the factors, the garbagemen, the bakers, and I forget, who were there to feed us and serve us during the confinement, why could they not also benefit from these holiday vouchers? Worse, you're going to ask them to give one day off for the others! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, I will quote comments from Internet users on your proposed legislation. For Alain, "offer his days off to the nursing staff, it's not solidarity, it's charity and the hospital doesn't care about charity"; for Anne-Charlotte, it is "... out of question, these people deserve better than alms"; for Pascal, "they have the gift to always postpone the effort on others". As you will have understood, the group La France insoumée is opposed to this bill. We support the Interunion, which asks people not to give days off for the holiday vouchers, but to pose a day of RTT to go protest on June 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u37	That was pretty good! Left, but not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u38	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u39	Before I begin, I would just like to tell you that after I finished my last night of resuscitation at the Covid Plus service, I came to the Chamber the next day. It was a Tuesday and Christophe Blanchet presented his bill. My first thought was to see that I had returned to a world totally above ground. I'll tell you what I have to tell you now. "It seems that [legislators] have ignored the greatness and the very dignity of their work: they have had fun making childish institutions, with which they have to the truth conformed to the little spirits, but decredited to the people of common sense. This excerpt from Montesquieu's Persian Letters dates back to 1721, but is as often revealed by an amazing news. While the National Assembly is studying the bill allowing the donation of paid leave in the form of holiday vouchers to members of the medical and social sector, I feel, as a member of Parliament and as a caregiver, rather uncomfortable – that is the least one can say. Uneasy first on the shape. Who will be affected by the device? Have we estimated the number of French people who could take it? How then can we know the number and amount of holiday vouchers that will actually reach the caregivers? A simple question: will there be enough for everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u40	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u41	And if this is not the case, what are the priorities for making choices among health care workers? Will all categories of health care professionals benefit from this? If the bill we are studying today has the advantage of brevity, the one tabled by Maxime Minot included at least, in particular, the liberal professions. Uneasy, again, on the bottom. Is this really the whole room for manoeuvre available to the lawmaking institution? Are we, elected from the nation, so powerless to respond to the demands of our caregivers for years? These, however, hold in a few words: to regain dignity at work and humanity in the care. We are making mistakes as decision-makers if we believe that the hospital can do without new funding to open beds, to recruit massively and to significantly raise the lowest wages. We must urgently work on several projects: recognizing the central role played by specialized paramedics, reshaping the training offer of the medical-social and health professions, rethinking the decision-making process of the hospital, the regional governance of the health system, and reverting to the pricing of care so that it takes their quality more into account than their quantity. These proposals will be defended by the group Ecology Democracy Solidarity, based on real demands from caregivers. I do not misunderstand the ambition of this text: it responds to the request of citizens sincerely wishing to express their gratitude and gratitude to professionals who have saved lives at the risk of their own, at a time when many French people were suffering from not being able to help more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u43	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will therefore vote in favour of the bill. But I don't think I can go forward either by saying, on behalf of these French people, that the most beautiful mark of recognition that could be given to caregivers would, for once, be to listen to them. Fraternity cannot be content with applause, you say in the explanatory statement. I would add that fraternity cannot be satisfied with measuring instruments either. So we are all destitute: French, caregivers, elected from the nation. Where will we be? Where will the measures to treat the public hospital be prescribed, and by whom will they be prescribed? The Ségur de la santé opened last Monday, and health professionals are already sounding alarms: they are concerned about the issues imposed by the Government. Broad categories of caregivers, including the most disadvantaged and feminized, as by chance, are not represented in this consultation. Yet their demands are clear, their precise diagnosis – so why do they fear that they will still be able to impose solutions on the top, by the same off-ground decision-makers? Why do they think they're left out again? [[Thierry Benoit applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, IDU-I and SOC groups]] Finally, let us be up to the level of our caregivers: during the review of the next PLFSS, during the review of the age and autonomy law, during our next days of parliamentary niche. I quote again Montesquieu: "The unnecessary laws weaken the necessary laws. Let us finally commit ourselves to necessary laws, these are crucial and will finally bring relief to our caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u44	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u45	"Mots lack emotions," said Victor Hugo. So, failing to say their gratitude, the French thanked the caregivers who mobilized – and continue – during this health crisis. Without always finding the words, they applauded them at 8 p.m. each evening; restaurateurs cooked to enhance their meals; children have designed to beautify their working environment; Florists have coloured the rest rooms; So many other initiatives have been devised to thank those who have worked hard to care for and care for the most fragile. In front of pain, in front of self-denial, in front of the professional conscience that made caregivers work with dedication, efficiency and humanity, the French were grateful and moved; Many wished to thank them. The text before us is part of this spirit of generosity, by allowing employees and public officials with days of leave, days of RTT and days of rest not taken, to choose to donate it to healthcare professionals by turning it into holiday vouchers. A few days of vacation, not only to rest – they all need it – but also to take time and repair the souls who have seen a lot of pain. Of course, we welcome this initiative, which calls for the generosity of our fellow citizens in favour of those who care for us and care for our elders on a daily basis, those personnel who have given themselves tirelessly, with energy and dedication, not as heroes – a term that they deny – but as committed, voluntary, passionate and effective professionals. It is the opening of an opportunity for those of our fellow citizens who want to make the choice of thanking caregivers on the front line during the epidemic of covid-19, to allow them to breathe and take a vacation, so that to the commitment of some respond to the generosity of others. The bill is part of the continuity of other parliamentary initiatives, such as the one defended by my colleague Paul Christophe on the donation of days off to family caregivers. The possibility, which already existed, of donating part of the rest days to care for a seriously ill child or a close person in loss of autonomy or with a disability, will therefore be extended in order to offer holiday vouchers to the staff of the health and medico-social sectors – I repeat, medico-social – who worked during the epidemic of covid -19. It is a gesture, a modest mark to express our gratitude and admiration for the unprecedented mobilization of these personnel. Of course, it is not a question of paying the debt to them. The measures to be taken to improve and sustainably transform the working conditions of healthcare workers in hospitals, care centres, EHPAD or other medical and social institutions must be of a completely different nature. This is the whole issue of the Segur of Health launched last week by the Prime Minister, to which we will take our full part. Reforming our health care system means better organizing the hospital, better interacting city medicine and hospital medicine, encouraging research, thinking about our drug supply, better prevention, treating medical deserts, better equipping the hospital, better recognizing paramedical professions, and so many other things. But it is above all, and above all, that we pay close attention to caregivers and to all those who work for our health. These additional days of leave are therefore a beginning, a beginning of consideration for those who have chosen their profession out of passion and who sometimes leave it out of despair. Monetization of the days off is a good idea in itself – so good that it is trans-partisan, and I pay tribute to our colleague Maxime Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u46	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u47	The principle of monetization is a good idea but – because there is a "but" – on the form, this gift must be totally defied. We have tabled amendments to that effect in committee and for the sitting, which have been deemed inadmissible. If it is not defied, indeed, this gift will be more like a poisoned gift, and none of us here wants to offer a gift of this kind. That is why the Working Together Group will naturally be in favour of this bill if and only if the Government makes a determined commitment to accept an amendment – which we will introduce as part of the third amending finance bill – with a view to fully challenging this donation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u48	It's blackmail!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u49	In plain terms, the group will vote – under this condition – in favour of this text to show the gratitude and recognition of the nation towards these professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u50	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u51	At eight o'clock, every night for weeks, many women and men met to applaud hospital staff struggling with coronavirus. They have done so to give them courage, to show them all the gratitude and consideration that the majority have deprived them so much. Under the applause addressed to the caregivers, you did not hear the whistles that were intended for you – for there were some. Worse, you're now busy instrumentalizing this gesture, recovering it, distorting it. You tell those who applauded not to be content with this and to give. Under these applause, you could have heard the attachment of a whole people to the hospital staff, to the public hospital itself, to the right to health, and to get you up to this clear message. You could have given up restructuring plans, hired, increased wages. You preferred to distribute uneven and ephemeral bonuses and medals. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] With this bill, you get rid of yourself after having voted indigent budgets and refused to hear. Hospital staff have been angry for a long time, and this gesture is not to appease him. He does not ask us to remember; it only asks for the means to fulfil its public service tasks with only the general interest. Many and many add that they do not ask others to give up their days of rest – unless perhaps it is to demonstrate with them, as Caroline Fiat said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u52	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u53	How did you get that idea? How did you get the nerve to ask employees to pay holiday vouchers to the healthcare staff, all with principles of generosity and solidarity? The political message is dated and known: more work is needed. Give your days because you have too many, say you. It turns into an obsession and everything serves as a pretext: here, the employer is allowed to dispose of the days of rest of the employees, there they are encouraged to make charity of it by making them guilty, further they are told that we will have to give them days to pay for the crisis. Hospital staff are exceptional and society owes it. Unfortunately, for you, society is only a sum of individuals and you do not envisage any other path. But these days are the result of social conquests and it is not by chance that they have been attached to the person, because his health and balance are at stake. Sub-question: What is being done for other public servants who have provided essential missions during confinement? What is being done for employees in the private sector, for example cashiers, for whom the premiums announced will not fall? What will we do tomorrow for professionals just as exceptional in the face of other dramas? We will work more – because that's what this is about – to pay them a hotel night or a restaurant note. Is that the plan? On what dangerous stilts do you therefore want to found the society and social relations of tomorrow? What is the role of public authorities in this case? In your history, the state calls for donations and encourages patrons! It's a flat pass. There may be women and men of good will to do so, but by institutionalizing this practice, you unduly place a responsibility on their shoulders. Before calling for donations and rather than playing the card of guilt, make the necessary political decisions! Do not use the generosity of those who care and those who applaud to make yours! It's not a solution; At the end of the day, you're showing off what you don't have. At the end of this traumatic moment for all, whether in hospital staff or not, whether the virus has been poached to go to work, whether you've had telework, lost 16% of your earnings to temporary unemployment or have been unemployed all the time, you have the right to breathe, to look for your rhythm and to find a bit obscene that you are taken by feelings – feelings that the Government and the majority did not have at the decisive moment – asking you for a little effort. This unhealthy bill confirms the renunciation of genuine national solidarity, which will not forget the number of unpaid overtime and the number of days of rest denied to hospital staff. It directs us towards further regressions, as if the class struggle opposed those who have too many days of rest and those who are too ill-paid to afford a vacation. The money for hospital staff is elsewhere. Let us, you say, invent a new form of solidarity and make the impossible possible! So have this courage and call it the tax on capital or the taxation of capital! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Again, you're playing pretending. It is not charity that we need, but justice, and justice requires other political choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u54	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u55	In the last three months, the best and the worst have been born. All the care workers involved have struggled and continue to struggle valiantly to protect, accompany and care for our fellow citizens. The battle has been hard, but we're about to win it. The fate of all depended on everyone's responsibility. The images of overflows in hospitals were the subject of special attention and the silent example of the French made it possible to stem the epidemic quickly. From these three months, I want to remember these incredible solidarity movements that have crossed France, like the spontaneous ritual of applause at twenty o'clock to greet those who fight. Through solidarity and mutual assistance, the French wanted to take their part in the health battle. There was talk of first and second line, but this battle took place within each family, all contributing to the collective effort by remaining confined. This text makes it possible to offer holiday vouchers to professionals in the health and medico-social sectors and in-home services, at the initiative of our colleague Christophe Blanchet, whose commitment and tenacity I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u56	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u57	It aims to preserve the spirit of solidarity and to consecrate this recognition. In this way, we will put in the marble of the law the desire of the French to thank the caregivers and all the professionals who have participated in the national effort. By convening the Ségur de la santé, the President of the Republic wishes to build the foundations of a health system...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u58	We have to sound the trumpets and the drums! You're clowns!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Pradieu, keep to yourself the insulting words and be respectful; the debate will win.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u60	"Clown" is not an insult, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Drums and trumpets for a plagiarism: this is quite appropriate, Mr Pradieu, because I love music!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u62	I didn't get it right...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u63	Continue, Madam Member of Parliament; I'm sure Mr. Pradie will show more respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u64	It would be a shame not to hear the end, it's so fascinating!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u65	Shut up, Mr. Pradie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u66	Through the concertation of the Ségur de la santé, I said, the President of the Republic wishes to build the foundations of a more resilient and modern system, to establish our long-term recognition of caregivers and to respond definitively to their legitimate demands. It goes without saying that this text concerns only a tiny part of the health system as a whole. It's a derisory part for some, I can readily hear it, but it's an inescapable part. I speak indeed of rest: who says effort says rest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u67	But that's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u68	During these three months of struggle, all health professionals worked hard without counting their hours, or even returning home for fear of bringing back the covid. The time has come to allow them to rest and the French want to participate. To do this, it required a strong and agile tool, easy to issue and use, a tool known to almost everyone – the holiday voucher, which is the key tool for tourism and rest. It is a tool of the state that passes through the Agence nationale du cheque-vacances, to which many French people do not yet have access. This bill will establish a legal framework for the donation and access to this system. This idea, which Mr Blanchet and many other colleagues support, is excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u69	Revolutionary! History! Say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u70	The holiday voucher is popular with the French. This text will make it possible to go further on the issue of giving paid leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u71	Do you think we can pay visits to the National Assembly with a holiday check?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u72	Mr. Pradie, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u73	He's right, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u74	In my view, it is not necessary to oppose holiday vouchers and gifts of paid leave to wages and claims: both are complementary! Don't oppose them! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Solidarity must be total. As a result, no commission will be related to the issuance of gifted holiday vouchers. We had to provide a legal framework for the French to express their gratitude and to respond to the need for solidarity and fraternity. No, this text is not useless, as I have read or heard; It innovates in terms of solidarity and makes sense in the light of current events. Isn't recognition the memory of the heart?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u75	The floor is for Mr Maxime Minot, whose speech I hope will be listened to with as much respect as the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u76	He's a man, he can talk quietly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u77	A few weeks ago, at twenty o'clock, the time stopped in a national communion. In the towns and villages of France, only one sound echoed, that of applause in tribute to the nursing staff, to those heroes who, despite the lack of resources and consideration, fought with courage and dedication against an invisible force who wanted and still wanted to kill us. Like reeds, they folded but did not break, carried by a breath defying the storm, that of a nation that was found and united and wanted to be heard with one heart – a nation that had been so torn for almost three years. What then can we do to translate this emotion and unanimous recognition? Member of the Oise, a territory harder hit than others, I had to provide a concrete and useful answer. That is why I tabled on 22 March a bill allowing any employee to give a day's rest to the nursing staff. All in all, these days of RTT, which are not days of leave but days of recovery, are perfectly suited to my purpose, both in substance and symbolically. Aware that the caregivers cannot, given their missions, take their recovery days and that their remuneration is not up to their responsibilities, and without it being possible, with the means that are mine, to envisage a long-term revalorisation of this remuneration, because it is up to the State to do so, I have chosen to propose that these donations be monetizable in the form of bonuses. Apart from the fact that it does not cost companies more, this solution will give the people concerned, even on a temporary basis, more purchasing power, which they will have as they see fit. While this bill was addressed to all Members of the Assembly on 22 March, the majority preferred to ignore this tense hand of the opposition and to table the pale copy that is before us today. It's a triple mistake. On the form, first of all: from the ethical point of view, it goes without saying that the plagiarism of a bill to attribute its merits is dishonest and inexcusable. This process undermines Parliament and, in short, is quite revealing of what has happened since the beginning of the legislature, where communication has prevailed over reason. The truth is this: unlike the opposition, which votes responsibly in favour of texts based on consensus, the majority is unable to do the same and work together in the general interest. Is that, then, the new world you embody? It is far worse than the old one, who, according to you, gathered the worst of evils but, at least, had the merit of preserving a form of intellectual honesty. The second error is substantive and relates to the scope of the bill. You propose that donations be convertible into holiday vouchers. I understand the laudable intention, moreover, to do two blows with one stone by helping to revive the tourism sector, to which I am also very attached, and I do not question the usefulness of the holiday vouchers, but the scheme envisaged is far too reducing in relation to my proposal. Indeed, you remove a lot of freedom from caregivers in the use of the gift. They might want to pay for the milkings of their house or help their children. I suggest you pair the two devices, yours and mine. It seems to me that at least we have to give healthcare staff and donors full control of the measure, otherwise it would remain a perfect gadget that I would not support. The third and final mistake is based on your motivations: the majority want to surf the good intentions after the drama we have experienced. But from you, this proposal is indecent and reveals a cynicism that no longer escapes anyone. You want to help caregivers, while you've been refusing them so much for three years. You refused them masks and protections during the crisis. You refused them, for more than nine months, even a benevolent listening. You have refused them, budget after budget, the means they need so much. Still this policy of "at the same time", which destroys France: for the media, an appearance of an increase in resources, but, from behind, an incessant demand for savings, without any structural reform on the horizon. Your choices and actions over the past three years have led hospitals and caregivers to where they are today. And you want to be nice! Who are you laughing at? I hope that these are not those who have given so much, sometimes to their lives, to save our compatriots and win the fight against the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A gift of days of rest is an act of solidarity, free and anonymous, far from your policy and what you embody.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u78	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u79	The bill that we are discussing this evening, adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs last week, aims to remove a legal obstacle, which may have prevented some of our fellow citizens from giving concrete expression to their solidarity with healthcare workers. All the French knew how to recognize the unwavering commitment of doctors, nurses, caregivers, hospital service agents, stretchers and paramedics at the height of the epidemic of covid -19. While the symbolic tributes, which we have all observed every evening at 20 o'clock, are necessary, they are still insufficient. Of course, this text is not intended to solve all the problems of pay and work organisation in health facilities. These issues are on the agenda of the Ségur de la santé, which currently brings together the Government, trade unions and hospital federations. Our group, like most others, will be extremely attentive to the measures that will result from this. Nevertheless, this bill highlights the principle of solidarity between the French, on the basis of volunteerism. It seems to us that our role is to foster this momentum and will, by changing the law in force to create a mechanism that meets the aspirations expressed by our fellow citizens: to be able to transform de facto solidarity into legal solidarity. The measure allowing employees and public officials to donate to health professionals RTT days and untaken days of rest, through their conversion into holiday vouchers, seems to us to be relevant and practical. It will strengthen the link, sometimes mistreated, between the French and the caregivers; The quality of the bond and the relationship is at the heart of the care. The examination of the text in committee expanded the initial proposal, integrating all students mobilized during the crisis, from medical interns to aide-care students; They have shown that young people are resourceful and that the health system will be able to count on them in the coming years. Another advantage of holiday vouchers, they will be used in France, in structures hard tested by the consequences of containment. Nevertheless, it will be necessary to ensure the operability of the proposed mechanism and the equitable distribution of donations throughout the country. Mr rapporteur, Madam Minister, can you tell us how the donations are to be converted and distributed? The text clearly illustrates the usefulness of the parliamentary legislative initiative. It brings a first stone, albeit modest, to the building of solidarity, which must be consolidated and secured by its supervisor, the State. Every stone must find its place in this piece of architecture that we build together. "A journey of a thousand leagues always begins with a first step": we would do well to draw inspiration from Lao Tseu's old wisdom. We could invoke a thousand reasons for not adopting the text, pointing out the weaknesses and shortcomings, but the path is good: I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to take this journey and take the first step. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As in committee, the MODEM and related groups will support the initiative of our colleague Christophe Blanchet and will vote, without ideological a priori or master to think philosophically or guardian figure of republicanism, whether solidarity or social, for the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u80	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u81	The bill is not bad and can bring a little happiness to many caregivers, but you can quote Lao Tseu's beautiful phrase – "A journey of a thousand leagues always begins with a first step" – your credibility is seriously undermined. Indeed, you have taken many steps backwards since 2017. That is why many caregivers, to whom I presented this proposal as potentially interesting to them, told me that they saw nothing but contempt on the part of those who, for years, refused them means. Who has closed thousands of beds since 2017? It's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u82	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u83	Who shut down maternity wards? I still see Mrs Buzyn humiliating our colleague Jean Lassalle, who fought for a maternity in a rural area. Who dared to do this? It's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u84	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u85	Who refused the health care workers' wage claims? Who has dealt with the petition and resignation of 1200 medical teachers, who are the soul of the country and who carry the care system? It's you! Who was unable to provide masks and protect caregivers, some of whom died and left orphans behind? It's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u86	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u87	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You exposed them to the virus and you bear an overwhelming responsibility. Do you think that by offering them a holiday check, the caregivers will forget, with a great deal of communication, your overwhelming responsibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u88	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u89	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You use communication and symbol to make forget tragic decisions, which have plunged caregivers into deep anger. This afternoon, a caregiver told me that he would never forgive you for forcing him to refuse patients in the hospital based on their age and for letting people over seventy die in EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u90	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u91	That's the truth! It took the German press to quote the head of the emergency department at Mulhouse hospital – I refer you to the article by Courier international. That's where we got it! And you think you'll make a holiday check forget the selection by age, which is like a "sorting" and is a national indignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u92	You're out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u93	No, that's the point! Caregivers would be happy to benefit from holiday vouchers if, at the same time, a true public health policy were conducted. This policy would involve an increase in the remuneration, which you have refused, the reopening of the closed hospitals – I am thinking of Val-de-Grâce, which could have reopened because it is in perfect condition, at the Hôtel-Dieu, which will be traded and transformed into a commercial gallery, and at the small provincial hospitals, local establishments which are the strength of Germany and have allowed it to deplore a much smaller number of deaths. Caregivers would believe you if you announced the doubling of the resuscitation beds, while your Prime Minister just said that we would return to 5000 beds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u94	The number of resuscitation beds has more than doubled! It's a fabric of inaccuracies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u95	Caregivers could believe you if you announced the end of fee-for-service, which was a disaster for hospitals. [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Caregivers may believe you if you seriously address the issue of managing public funds. The Assembly should look at this paradox: the country at the highest rate of compulsory levies and public expenditure has left people dying according to their age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u96	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u97	The staggering level of public spending has made it impossible to treat our fellow citizens. You'd better find out about the 2 million fake Vitale cards, which cost 15 billion euros a year and prevent public money from being allocated to the right things, namely the care of the French. You do not want to open this file and you prefer to communicate on holiday vouchers, but the French do not have the short memory and will remember your balance sheet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u98	Caregivers will remember what you said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u99	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u100	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u101	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u102	You quoted me, Mrs. Fiat. I have a point of agreement with you: if I refuse to allow only companies to bear the financial burden of our choices, it is good for the state to take its share of it. In Article 1, we have chosen to organise and allow, on a voluntary basis, the monetization of donations of paid leave or RTT days. The main interest of the holiday voucher is that it corresponds to tourism expenditures made in our country. In committee, we voted for an amendment integrating health students into the scheme, because they were extremely useful during the crisis; They were paid through the Minister's intervention and the highly valued skills investment plan in the field. Mr Dupont-Aignan, I challenge you to find a single patient refused resuscitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u103	There's a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Challenge, Mr. Dupont-Aignan! You lied in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u105	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u106	The health crisis we have experienced, which has not yet been completed, has revealed and brought to the fore the men and women – that is the essential – who, through their dedication and skills, have been able to cope with the problems of organizing the health system and the reception and care facilities. That's what I'll remember from this period. Mr rapporteur, you want to develop solidarity: no one can blame you, especially since they have been essential in the history of health, of God-hotels and hospices. They were essential at a time when the public authorities did not take charge of the organization of the health system. Of course, this gesture of solidarity is quite commendable, but I wonder: how will it be organised? Will the number of people who will be mobilized be sufficient? How will holiday vouchers be allocated between public and private institutions, hospitals, EHPADs and home support structures? Many questions remain, regardless of the generosity of the gesture. This system cannot replace what institutional staff expect, not only in terms of bonuses and medals, but also a genuine recognition of their difficult jobs, careers and the need for a new hospital organization. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is to say how close I can be to you in this process, which, however, is only a small drop of water in an ocean. We would like to resolve the real difficulties of the health and social system. In your voice, Madam Minister, even if this subject is not within your portfolio, the Government must assure us that every effort will be made, thanks to significant financial resources discussed in the Secur de la santé, to ensure that this recognition is effective and sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u107	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u108	I do not question the good faith of our colleague Christophe Blanchet, nor his sincere will to make a gesture. But, and it has been much better said that I am not going to express it, this proposal is a bad idea. If I didn't keep my words, I'd even call it indecent. We need to see what we've seen for several weeks! We have seen the bonuses, very unequal – our information gathered in the EHPADs, with nurses, shows that inequality is the rule. We've seen Total Gas Bills; At Clermont-Ferrand's CHU, we got 450, and those who didn't have one wondered why. We saw the announcement of medals. Now, we are debating a bill allowing employees to issue holiday vouchers to caregivers on their leave. It seems like a gesture from the heart; For my part, I believe that such a proposal really shortens politics and gives its potential beneficiaries the feeling that everything is going as if they were being despised. What they want is not that. What they want is for their wages to increase. What they want is to be recognized. What they want is job creation. What they want is to improve their working conditions. What they want is better doing the job they love so much. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I am all the more opposed to the text that we are debating because – perhaps it has already been said, I have arrived a little late – the ANCV has been deprived by the state of 30 million euros – certainly to feed the solidarity fund in favour of TPE-SMEs, but still! On the one hand, the State is taking 30 million euros; On the other hand, employees are asked to take their leave to give holiday vouchers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u109	Mr Dupont-Aignan has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u110	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is based on Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure. Our colleague Mauborgne called me a liar. You can laugh! I think we can disagree without insulting each other. I refer you to the article of the International Courier which summarizes the German press articles with testimonies according to which the emergency department of the Mulhouse hospital has very clearly indicated that it has been obliged to sort – horrible term – patients according to age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u111	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u112	Thank you, my colleague. Your point of order is noted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u113	We come to the amendments. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 4 and 14, to delete the article. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u114	I am pleased that Mrs Mauborgne agrees with me on one point: if the La République en marche group wishes to offer holiday vouchers to carers, their care must be the responsibility of the State and not the employees. We agree, dear colleague! That's why I quoted you. We would like to delete the article, for the reasons I set out earlier. Mr rapporteur, let us "invent this new form of solidarity and make the impossible possible" – this concludes the explanatory statement of your proposal for a law allowing the donation of paid leave in the form of holiday vouchers to members of the medical and social sector in recognition of their action during the epidemic of covid-19. These holiday vouchers can be spent on service delivery. We don't know if there'll be enough for everyone. We don't know who will be involved. In committee, we discussed the advisability of including home help among recipients, and concluded that the idea was good, but that we were not certain that everyone could give. You rely on the assumption that 20% of employees will give leave. Have you observed that, since the beginning of the definity, applause for caregivers has ceased? The reason for this is not that people no longer have any appreciation for themselves and their commitment, but that everyone, with the debunking, has returned to their work. I'm not sure you'll reach a 20%. So I think we're wasting our time. People don't want charity. Once known, your bill has been the subject of articles that I invite you to read. I also invite you to dialogue with the caregivers who speak about him; They say: "Rather than giving us a day off in the form of holiday vouchers, take a leave of absence and come and demonstrate with us on June 16th! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u115	They don't say that at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u116	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u117	In line with what I said earlier, we propose to delete the article. I said what I think, there's no need to repeat myself. I have felt that the rapporteur's sensitivity is not false; The problem is that it is expressed in a predefined political framework, which we know. You are therefore in great pain, Mr rapporteur, in providing the true answers to the questions raised by the text. So I maintain what I said earlier. In the end, we're next to the plate. In addition, from a technical point of view, the proposed law raises several questions. She seems unfinished. In addition, I would like to point out, following André Chassaigne, that when our colleague Michèle de Vaucouleurs and I looked at the situation of solidarity during confinement, we were alerted about the 30 million euros charged by the State on the ANCV budget. Several anti-poverty organizations have challenged this decision, arguing that this money – which fed many budgets to pay for vacations – will be lacking. So there is something wrong, and the bill before us is incoherent. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u119	Colleagues, you wish to delete section 1, and with it the bill as a whole. Let me answer your argument. Of course, that's not what caregivers expect. They expect wages to be raised, their working conditions improved, and hiring. I fully agree with you on this point. This is the goal of the Ségur de la santé. It is the duty of the Government, and of all of us, as parliamentarians, to meet their expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u121	Very clearly, no confusion is possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, this initiative is not parliamentary; it does not come from a particular Member. This is a citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u122	For a bill, that's what's original!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u123	For example, the agents of the union for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – USSRAF – of Val-de-Loire who, in March, wanted to transform their days from RTT into premiums for caregivers; The law prevented them from doing so. For example, the group Pasteur Mutalité, which launched the hashtag "JeDonneMesRTT" and which has faced a legal blockage. The purpose of this bill is only to remove this blocking, in order to allow those citizens who want to participate in their own way, because they have not been able to do so during confinement, to express their gratitude, thanks and sympathy to our caregiving world. This is his sole object: to lift a ban. Very clearly, if it succeeds, none of us will be able to agree on the merit of its success, which will be that of the citizens who have acted directly for the caregiving world. Using holiday vouchers has the advantage of reviving tourism – let's say the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u124	Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u125	That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u126	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u127	The idea is not to give additional purchasing power to caregivers. Nor is the idea of giving them a bonus, which is a matter of national generosity and solidarity, through taxation. Nor is it a question of giving additional leave to caregivers – who do not expect it, who do not even manage to pay their days off. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is only a question of informing the French who have shown themselves willing to act and who have encountered opposition, an administrative and legal blockage, that they can act. This is the sole purpose of this bill. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u129	The Government's opinion on both amendments is unfavourable, consistent with what I said earlier. I would like to remind you, in one word, that this bill should not be confused with the work being done within the framework of the Ségur de la santé – several of you have mentioned – which is absolutely indispensable and which is being launched. In this context, the Government is committed to improving career and salary levels. This requires concerted work, which will take place in the coming weeks. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to answer the question raised earlier by Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, who is waiting all the more for my answer, since no amendment concerns the subject she has raised. Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, you have raised the question of the possibility of challenging holiday vouchers for their beneficiaries. The proposed donation should not shift the beneficiaries of this solidarity momentum from one tax bracket to another. That is not the spirit of the text. In terms of form, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has ensured that all tax provisions are examined in the context of the original draft finance bill, in order to ensure their consistency. This allows Parliament to have a unified view of tax measures, while fully respecting parliamentary authority to levy tax. We will therefore have the opportunity to introduce this provision in the context of the forthcoming consideration of the draft amending finance law, which will be discussed in the Council of Ministers on 10 June, and in Parliament, most likely, at the end of June, within a time frame compatible with the parliamentary shuttle to which this bill will be submitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u130	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u131	Minister, you have awakened my curiosity by presenting the Ségur de la santé as an opportunity for a great discussion with the union organizations. I would like to know if you do not think that the subject we are discussing here would not deserve to be included. It is a question of touching the days of RTT and the days of rest, which also deserves to be the subject of a dialogue with the trade unions to know what they think. In addition, when we discussed the donation of rest days to a family-assisted public official or a sick child, I had taken a position quite consistent with the one I just expressed on behalf of my group. I remember that several support organizations for family caregivers had made it clear that, for once, that was not their wish. We have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u132	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u133	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That's how the world goes after it! Things are changing, you have to say hello to him! The rapporteur said that this bill was not for parliamentarians, but for citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u134	This will inspire them for the referendum on the privatization of ADP!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u135	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] I'd like to stop there for a moment. If things have changed and now it is not the parliamentarians who make the law, but the citizens, I would like to remind you that my proposal for a law on euthanasia and assisted suicide, for a dignified end of life, is still pending, even though it is probably supported by 80 per cent of the citizens. I say it with humour, because this is my mood tonight: when we look at the pension reform bill, as soon as we say that the citizens wanted it withdrawn, you were beating our ears, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, on the grounds that it is not the citizens who make the law, but the parliamentary majority, because you support the bill. That's how the new world goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u136	Besides, where is Mr. Pietraszewski?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u137	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u138	[[Smile]] Mrs. Fiat quoted us, Mrs. Mauborgne and I. I know that you are only quoting the great authors, Mrs Fiat, and that is a great pleasure to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u139	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u140	Nice humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u141	More seriously, I would like to point out, after the rapporteur who has done it very well, what we are talking about. We are talking about a debt, the debt that we have towards caregivers. She's raised. It must be concluded collectively. The nation will be grateful – according to an expression often heard – in a collective way. It has been through bonuses, and it will be even more so in the context of the Ségur de la santé. The nation will be at the rendezvous in a collective manner. However, we also have the right to want to pay this debt – some citizens have told us – on an individual basis. We offer nothing more, working on a voluntary basis, so that the need for a trade union discussion is not obvious to me. Anyone who wants to give days off to thank caregivers is concerned. I deliberately use the term debt because, in 1933, Parliament voted for the creation of the National Lottery, which succeeded the Debt, to help those who had suffered in battle. Today we are in a similar situation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I regret the politicization of a citizens' initiative that we want to accompany and simplify. What a shame to come up with such considerations. But since it's about giving, I find comfort in thinking of the Creole proverb: "God gave us the scab, but he also gave us the nails to scratch us. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u142	There was a very good Creole quote on stupidity, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u143	Amendments Nos 17 and 18 of the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u144	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u145	As you said, rapporteur, the bill is the result of a citizens' initiative. I would like to welcome the investment of a committed citizen, Thierry Lorente, who has asked many parliamentarians to relay his proposal, which was to monetize the donation of days off in the form of additional remuneration. We have discussed this at length together, Mr rapporteur. My amendment is intended to give the text more flexibility by allowing monetisation in the form of holiday vouchers, but also additional remuneration for staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u148	Mr Zulesi, you are one of the Members who heard the calls from the citizens, and you are one of the first to relay them. I also spoke with Mr Lorente,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u149	That's not what he told me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u150	... whose original idea was monetization in the form of a salary supplement, you recalled. He was convinced by the solution of the holiday vouchers that we presented to him, because it makes it possible to distinguish with the premium that the caregivers expect, which must not be the responsibility of the citizens but of the Government. I express an unfavorable opinion in order to preserve the heart of the bill, the holiday vouchers, and not a cash premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u151	Well, it's as clear as when the minister speaks...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u153	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u154	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u155	The subject will be discussed in a forthcoming amendment by Mr Minot, so I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u156	I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u157	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u158	This is a fallback amendment aimed, once again, at widening the scope of the text. Since you are proposing the monetization of holiday donations to finance holiday vouchers, why not extend it to sports coupons or actions that improve the quality of life at work? As I indicated in the summary presentation, caregivers are subjected to significant stress, which has greatly increased during the crisis, and to difficult working conditions. [[Alain Ramadier applauds]] The amendment, which is useful, does not seem to me to contradict the objective set out in your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u160	On the one hand, your amendment provides for the possibility of financing actions to improve the quality of life at work. If I fully understand your approach, it is irrelevant to the purpose of the bill. The working conditions will be discussed in the framework of the Health Security. On the other hand, you propose to add sports coupons to the holiday vouchers. I studied the idea carefully, which attracted me a lot. However, I see a disadvantage:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u161	Anyway, you're unfavorable, say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u162	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] ... staff should make a choice between holiday vouchers and sports coupons, which would increase the time to take advantage of either. Be aware, Mr.Minot, that 84% of places that accept sports coupons also accept holiday vouchers. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u163	We don't understand! Make a diagram!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u165	Help us understand, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u166	I understand your intention, Mr.Minot, but your amendment poses two difficulties: on the one hand, actions to improve the quality of life at work are the responsibility of the Government; They are part of the work of the Ségur de la santé, not of public generosity. On the other hand, with regard to sports coupons, several of you insisted on the necessary simplicity of the device for the recipient. In addition, adding sports coupons to holiday vouchers does not add much to the fact that both are often accepted by the same providers. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u167	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Minot?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u168	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u169	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u170	All this lacks a little class. You could have accepted the amendment, because it is still Mr Minot who is behind the text. This rejection of an amendment of pure common sense, even though you have plagiarized the bill he had tabled, is truly amazing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u171	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u172	He's even better than the previous one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u173	I try, even if sectarianism may continue. I have had the opportunity to mention it in the general discussion and it is a point of divergence between our two bills, if the monetization of donations in the form of holiday vouchers is understandable in the present situation, given the need to get the tourism sector back on track, the choice of limiting it to this single form greatly reduces the scope of the text, as Mr Zulesi, Member of the majority, said. The bill that I introduced provides for monetization in the form of bonuses for several reasons. First, caregivers cannot, in many cases, take their own days of rest. Secondly, their remuneration is not up to their mission. These donations therefore represent substantial but temporary assistance, pending a sustainable upgrading of their remuneration. You measure the extent to which you restrict the scope of the text and leave little choice to caregivers whose purchasing power, by your fault, is so low. [[Alain Ramadier applauds]] I invite you to adopt the amendment, which would allow an indispensable synthesis of our two bills without which I will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u175	Unfavorable opinion, for the simple reason that we consider that the award of premiums to carers is the responsibility of the Government, not the generosity of the French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the summary statement of the amendment, you highlight the difference between your bill and the one I have tabled, thus removing the prospect of a synthesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u177	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u178	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u179	These are, of course, political games, but we are in full confusion. The bill must be put in context. It is not a question of dealing with the difficulties of the hospital, on which we take all the time to look, but of giving a gift to thank someone. Is it charity to make a gift? I don't believe it. When you give a gift to thank friends for welcoming you or doing you a favor, they don't see charity there – the word doesn't always have the negative connotation given to it here – they receive it with pleasure. That is what this text seeks to do. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] Premiums don't really have a place, because, I don't know about you, but for my part, when I give a gift, I don't give euros. [[New applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With these gift vouchers, we say to caregivers: "Do yourself a favor! I don't know what's going on with you, but personally, when I give a gift to friends, it can take the form of gift vouchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u180	Unbelievable to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u181	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u182	Recognize it, in committee, we discussed the amount of the holiday vouchers. So we've been talking about cash,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u183	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u184	...a sum of money, even if it's about holiday vouchers. Then, when a person does you a favor and you want to thank her, if she says, "Don't thank me, I'm glad I did you a favor, I'll be offended if you give me a gift, I didn't do it for that," you don't give her a gift. You have all heard the reactions of caregivers to the idea of awarding them a medal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u185	We're not in the theater!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u186	No, we're not in the theater! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The same applies, I said, to reactions to the proposal for holiday vouchers: hear the caregivers, they don't want them! They take this gesture for charity. It's from a good feeling, I agree, of citizens who want to do a service, but hear that caregivers take it wrong... You have no respect, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. None. Definitely, you're not learning anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u187	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u188	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I am responding to Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe's remark. You give gifts to friends, but are you used to giving gifts to people you swindled or typed on? For three years, you've despised, you've hurt caregivers in our country, and you're coming with your little gift. You remind me of the ladies bosses of the forge masters, who, after exploiting the workers, were going to offer them small gifts on Christmas Day. It's very contemptuous. That's why caregivers are very angry with your attitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u189	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u190	I hope that the three sub-amendments I have tabled can be considered. The aim of the amendment is to draw attention to the need for equality between the private and public sectors. In some private institutions, premiums are now insufficient, which is unfair to caregivers. By adding the words "public and private", the amendment seeks to ensure that the system concerns everyone. The word "charity" has often been used, but some confuse charity with alms, which have nothing to do with it. Charity, from which comes the beautiful word "fraternity" in the motto of the Republic, is explained first of all by the desire to give meaning to an act. If you remove its meaning from this act, you greatly reduce its value. The principle of charity is to do justice through a heart impulse that allows you to give all the moral strength to the action you lead. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LR group]] By grace, let us try to use the right words: charity is not the same as alms or, moreover, taxes. So let us give back to Caesar what is Caesar's, to God what is God's, and to Maxime Minot what is Maxime Minot's.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u192	You want the scheme to benefit both the private and the public health care staff. That is the spirit of the bill from the beginning, and it is indeed preferable to write it. I am therefore in full agreement with you: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u193	Ah! This is the first time in three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u194	That's it, he picked up Lorraine's cross!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u195	[[Smile]] You see, Mr Aubert, that your sub-amendments were ultimately useless. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u196	This amendment, Mr President, is merely a drafting amendment, because in my view there is no prohibition in the text as drafted from applying the scheme to the private sector. However, given the nature of the topic, it might be useful to explicitly include this clarification in the text. The Government's opinion was therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u197	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u198	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u199	I apologize, but if I can admit that the non-profit private sector benefits from the scheme, the same is not true for the for-profit private sector. I recall that during the health crisis, a group like Korian had announced that it would pay 52 million euros in dividends. I therefore believe that large private groups have the means to issue holiday vouchers to their employees. We are not going to distribute them to people who, in the lucrative private sector, have the means to pay – and who have also announced that they will not pay dividends. Do not vote for this amendment! We're walking on the head!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u200	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u201	[[Smile]] Mr. Aubert defends the great capital!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u202	[[Smile]] We quoted Montesquieu, but not yet Karl Marx: you did well, Mr. Chassaigne. We were happy to find private institutions when the State asked them to pause their health, stop all surgical acts and set up a reserve of the Republic to accommodate the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u203	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u204	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We are very happy to find the private sector when it comes to helping a failing hospital sector. There are also people in the private sector who have contributed to the fight against this disease. I don't see why they would be punished because they have the misfortune of working in the private sector. We must stop considering that private is necessarily wrong, and the public is good. What is intrinsically based on this bill is the principle of equality. We had already spoken of fraternity, so let us continue in the Republic with equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u205	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u206	As we have said, solidarity must also come from the business world. For example, my alternate, Philippe Veran, captain of industry, wants to create a solidarity fund for, among other things, the hospital of the Pays Salonais. It is in this spirit that my amendment seeks to ensure that the private sector, business leaders, can contribute to RTT's donations, not only to increase the volume of RTT's donations, but also to ensure that all the company's stakeholders are involved in this spirit of generosity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u208	Mr Zulesi, you would like to give employers the opportunity to offer days of rest in addition to those given by their employees. I fully agree with you, solidarity must be able to be expressed on all levels. During the hearings, I was able to see that the groups Pasteur Mutualité and Action Logement or that a network of companies such as France FinTech have already engaged, on this issue, in reflections that are close to success. We can therefore imagine that, in a company where an employee will give two days' rest, the employer can pay a third to show that he too wishes to thank the caregivers. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u210	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u211	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u212	To understand the profound logic of the approach that drives the majority, I would like to know whether it is now a matter of involving the employer to tell the employees: "If you decide to give, I will agree. Are we well in a logic where everything will converge to make people feel guilty and ask them to put in the pot? I would like to check this out, because it seems to me that this proposal is leading to the creation of a mechanism that I believe you may not grasp all the points and ends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u213	Of course! It's a perverse effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u214	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u215	In response to my colleague from Bouches-du-Rhône, the aim is not to blame employees who wish to donate RTT, but only to allow every stakeholder in the company – including those who run it, therefore – to participate in this spirit of generosity: it is very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u216	The rapporteur's amendment No 19 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u217	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u218	Together with my colleagues in the IDU and independent group, as well as our collaborators,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u220	... we believe that your bill, which is a good one, Mr. Rapporteur, would be even better if it considered the staff of the home services. When we talk about health and care, we often think about institutions and the public and private sectors – Julien Aubert is right when he proposes to include the private sector in the text – but not enough in home care services. [[Smile]] When we discussed the early age, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, who at the time was a member of the IDU group, Acting and Independent, had asked a question in this regard, because the staff involved, caregivers and agents, asked us. Everyone should be concerned with the early age – I'm looking at Caroline Fiat – whether they are caregivers, hospital workers, the public or the private, institutions or home care services. And the same should be true of the mechanism that is mobilizing us tonight; That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u222	You are referring, Mr Benoit, to home helpers, who were heavily mobilized during the crisis of the covid-19, with more than 75% presence despite the conditions we know – lack of means or masks. They and they were here. We must therefore, of course, incorporate them into the scheme, even if your request seems to me to be satisfied with the current wording. I understand that you wish to make this clear in the text: this seems welcome. I shall therefore give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u224	I understand your intention, honourable Member, but I still have a slight legal concern, which is that the medical and social sector is wide and that we have not listed the other categories. I am afraid that if we go too far in drafting the text by mentioning one category without doing so for others, this may pose a problem of implementation. I therefore believe that it would be preferable to list all categories by order-in-council rather than to do so in the law. However, I understand your intention, so I will issue a wisdom opinion while cautioning against this small legal risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u225	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u226	I believe, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, that this amendment would enrich the bill because we have made a common front – public and private, health and medical-social sectors – to enable our solidarity to overcome this crisis, and to overcome ourselves through them, as we have learned from this crisis. And what we have learned, in particular, is that solidarity goes beyond power relations or class struggles: on the contrary, we have seen synergy; I also believe that this amendment, which enriches solidarity and makes it stronger, deserves to be included in the bill. And, as the minister has just said, a decree will be able to specify the other socio-professional categories concerned, because they were also very active on a daily basis during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u227	The rapporteur's amendment No 20 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u228	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u229	[[Smiles and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] As I find the world after much more conciliatory with the opposition than the world before, we will try again with this new amendment... Perhaps it is because you have lost the absolute majority, ladies and gentlemen of the LaREM Group, that you are no longer listening! The aim of this amendment is to return to one of the two objectives that you mentioned, Mr rapporteur, namely the revival of the tourism sector. As a member of a tourist department, the Vaucluse, which will experience its shock from June onwards, I propose that the holiday vouchers which will be distributed under this law can only be used in the national territory, so that this tourist patriotism can be realized through this mechanism. I would point out that holiday vouchers can be distributed and used in other European countries, provided that conventions exist; I therefore propose to limit this use to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u231	You are right about the analysis, MP Aubert, but I would like to clarify two things. The first is that in 2019 only 1% of holiday vouchers were used outside France. So your request is almost met, the figure being negligible. It is all the more so, moreover, since it is the one of 2019, the year before the health crisis, which will, I imagine, lead the French to less travel in Europe or abroad. If, however, one wanted to ensure that these 1% use holiday vouchers in France, it would mean issuing new securities, different from those already in existence. Additional costs would be incurred, and the delays would be extended accordingly. This does not seem useful to me, therefore: an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u232	So we're not going to go into the digital tracing of vacations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u234	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u235	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u236	By this appeal amendment, co-signed by some 40 colleagues, I wanted to draw the Minister's attention to the need not to forget, in future decrees, school life assistants, who are sometimes paid directly by employers. However, after the adoption of Mr Aubert's amendment on the public and private sectors and Mr Benoit's amendment on the medical and social sector, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u237	The rapporteur's amendment No 21 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u238	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u239	The aim of this amendment is for a decree in the Council of State to specify the legal framework that will allow public officials to donate their days of rest to the health and medical-social personnel mobilized during the epidemic of the Covid-19. This provision will facilitate the implementation of national solidarity in the public sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u240	I have before me two amendments, Nos 12 and 13, on an additional article after Article 1, which may be presented in a consolidated form. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u241	As far as Amendment No 12 is concerned, I will simply say that it is being defended, as the discussion has shown that the Government and the rapporteur are opposed to it. I am focusing on Amendment No 13, which is very close to my heart. It is intended to authorize the donation of days of rest, thanks to the mechanism you propose, that of holiday vouchers, between employees of the same group who have activities in the health or medical-social sectors concerned. This would be the subject of a company or group agreement. The aim is to amplify the gesture of giving rest days by promoting solidarity between employees of one and the same group, which would thus be all the more better understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u242	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u243	Amendment No 13 is intended to give the possibility of allowing, by way of an enterprise agreement, the donation of rest days between employees of the same group with activities in the health or medical-social sectors. It is very similar to Amendment No 12, except that the donation would be in the form of holiday vouchers. Your amendments may affect the readability of the proposed scheme, which calls for national solidarity; They would actually make it more complex. I therefore invite you to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u245	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u246	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u247	I withdraw the amendments, but the donation of rest days within the same group is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u248	You have to keep them, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u249	A real discussion, particularly with the Government, was needed to make progress in that regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u250	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u251	We now agree that we are talking about gifts, in the form of holiday vouchers. However, as far as donors are concerned, we have only mentioned employees at this stage. What about non-employees, e.g. MPs? If, after applause from the health care staff, I want to thank him in my own way, I wish I could...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u252	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Well, do your job as MPs: pass a law to raise salaries!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u253	If you want to speak, ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u254	Mr Studer, please stay calm. Mr Pradieu, for the fourth time of the evening, I ask you to remain calm and respectful, an attitude that must not be as foreign to you as it normally is. Please proceed, Mrs. Liso.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u255	I wonder if it's not just a matter of sex or hair color... [[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] Self-employed persons who would also like to thank the health care staff must be able to do so. The Members we are...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u256	Only Mrs Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u257	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] What do you have against women, Mr. Pradie? You're systematically interrupting them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u258	Members who would like to make a gesture of solidarity and generosity in the form of holiday vouchers cannot do so at the present stage of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u259	Well, vote for the salary increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u260	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Article 1e bis will allow them, as well as all non-employees and legal persons – entrepreneurs may also want to abound the account created for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u261	And it was me who was accused of doing theater!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u262	We come to the amendments to the article. Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor in support of Amendment No 25, which is intended to rewrite this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u263	It does indeed intend to rewrite article 1 bis, adopted in committee, by extending the scope of the donors and beneficiaries of the holiday vouchers referred to therein. In its current wording, the text provides an opportunity for self-employed individuals to make a financial donation. The purpose of this amendment is to open this possibility to any natural or legal person who wishes to contribute to this solidarity mechanism, including public officials or employees who cannot or do not wish to give rest days. Companies and associations could also contribute to the momentum of national solidarity in this way. The donations made would not qualify for any tax reduction. It would also enable elected representatives, including parliamentarians, to take part in the momentum of national solidarity. Finally, Article 1e ra currently refers to the beneficiaries of the original scheme. In view of the amendments made by the committee, it appears necessary to extend the benefit of the arrangements provided for in Article 1a to all the beneficiaries referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u265	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u266	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u267	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] How about such a provision. However, when considering the bill extending the state of health emergency, I had proposed that, during the months of confinement, a 16% discount be applied to the highest wages in France, as it was to employees who were partially unemployed. And I think the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers and parliamentarians could have set an example. It would have been not a alms, performed at discretion, but a strong gesture...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u268	Did you do it? Where are you going to do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u269	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u270	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u271	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I don't give, like you, in the generosity of communication. We can be generous without yelling at him on the roofs. [[Same movements]] I am even the one of you who asked the Assembly's Ethics Officer that we could use the money advance, the AFM, to buy equipment for hospitals in our ridings. This was refused by the ethics officer, the President of the Assembly and the Quaestors. Also, I do not accept your lessons. I'm acting and I'm not talking about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u272	Yes, you just did!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u273	...unlike you, who speak without acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u274	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u275	No! This refers to our country's real solidarity problem. You have removed the solidarity tax on wealth and you have refused to tax the very high incomes in times of crisis, at a time when the weakest are laughing, literally. During the period of confinement, the President of the Republic and the ministers could have deprived themselves of part of their wages, as did the members of the government of other countries. Their gesture would have been welcome, and parliamentarians could have followed them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u276	Make social housing in Yerres!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u277	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u278	I wonder about the legal validity of the amendment, although we were already in the confusion before, I understand that. If I have heard your explanations, Mr rapporteur, you are making a mix between associations and companies. However, not-for-profit associations have an object or a corporate name – for example, organizing vacations or some type of leisure – and, a priori, the use for the purposes you plan of the money from the contributions or their activity does not necessarily fall within that object or that corporate name. For companies, who also have a social name or even a reason for being – we have discussed it – the problem is of another nature: you intend to make them contribute by introducing into the law the possibility for them to use their social good to make a donation. Indeed, the company and its resources are not the property of the entrepreneur, they are a social good. In my view, this point deserves further investigation. What's more, you've exempted businesses from turn-of-arm social contributions over the last three years, and now you're opening the way for donations from them. All of this is a rather problematic record in my view.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u279	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u280	With this text, it is indeed complicated for us, Members, to give something if we wish. I had tabled a sub-amendment to correct the problem by allowing elected representatives to give one day of their treatment on a voluntary basis. Some 36,000 elected representatives could thus have participated, albeit symbolically, perhaps, in the effort of national self-help, knowing that companies are also being asked to do so. We would have shown that we are not deaf, the French waiting for an effort on our part, even if, regarding the number of days, we should not fall into demagogy either. As for the AFM, this is a separate subject because it is a means of operation. In any case, I regret that my sub-amendment was declared inadmissible by the sitting department, because it would at least have allowed us to debate the principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u281	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 35, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u282	The Government is indeed proposing to delete article 2 in order to lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u283	How generous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u284	We come to amendments to change the title. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u285	This was an amendment of consistency in the event that my amendments were adopted. I deeply regret that this has not been the case. This rejection illustrates, once again, your inability to listen to the opposition and to work in the general interest. You knowingly copied my bill. This is an unacceptable and inexcusable act, as I said, which is not up to the mandate that the French will entrust. And this is not, as we know, an isolated case; It's even your signature, your way of "making politics differently." You have not tried to correct your mistake by accepting our amendments. I find this disappointing and disgusting. As a result, I will not vote for this text, which is a gadget...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u286	It's incoherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u287	No! And if you have anything to say, dear colleague, ask for the floor! Your general delegate, Stanislas Guerini, repeated this weekend again, in an interview given to the Parisian, that you had been "elected to overcome the divisions, not to recreate them".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u288	[[Approvals on the benches of the LaREM Group]] We are not yet on the explanations of vote, Mr Minot. Your amendment No 7 concerns the title.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u289	It's completely incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u290	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Did you listen to what I said? No... In short, the French will not forget, believe me, and you will be accountable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u292	You said, Mr Minot, that this was an amendment of consistency. I therefore give you an answer of consistency: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u293	It's fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u294	I have before me two amendments, Nos 26 and 27, which can be presented together. Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u295	They're editorial, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u296	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u297	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u298	The IDU and independent group will vote on the bill. Members are in their role when they take this kind of initiative and, without going back to the issue, except to say that it is a shame, I would like to pay tribute to Maxime Minot's idea and work. I also welcome the attitude shown by the rapporteur during the discussion of the text. He showed himself...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u299	[[Smile]] Centrist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u300	Yes, centrist, for I consider, dear Peter, that there is a part of truth in each of us. That's why I remained a centrist. The rapporteur, I said, has lived up to his task by trying to respond to all the speakers and by giving a favourable opinion on amendments from different backgrounds. I am pleased that the public and private sectors are being taken into account by the bill thanks to Julien Aubert's amendment, as well as home-based services, thanks to the amendment by the IDU and independent group. Finally, I welcome all the progress we have made this evening. We will therefore vote on the bill, thanking the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u301	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u302	The Freedom and Territory Group will abstain by a large majority. If we understand the intentions of the text, I have already expressed, during the general discussion, our doubts and questions about the success of the scheme, its volume and its priorities, particularly with regard to the destination of the holiday vouchers. Of course, the bill is a way of expressing our appreciation to the health care staff, but we believe that they expect something else. Although we understand the rapporteur's intentions, the time has come to take concrete steps to meet the expectations of caregivers, who have shown great courage, gratitude and self-denial during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u303	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u304	[[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte interrupts Ms. Caroline Fiat]] The La France insoumise group will obviously vote against the bill – I say of course, because I explained our reasons in committee and all evening. If you want to speak, my colleague, there is a microphone for that. I did not respond to the insults that were made earlier, but it is not too late to play.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u305	Mr. Rebeyrotte woke up a quarter of an hour ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u306	Go on, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u307	So I was saying that we would vote against the bill. In committee, I noted with astonishment that it had been forgotten to include aide-care students in the scheme, which they would appreciate; This has not been corrected in the Chamber. With regard to the distinction between private and public, I would like to reassure you, Mr.Aubert: I have nothing against private employees, I have been. But, since you mentioned the help provided by the private sector to public hospitals during the health crisis, you should know that the latter now presents them with the bill for the rental of beds: "A whole service has been reserved for you, this is what you owe us! » I would have agreed, rigorously, to help the non-profit private sector by extending the benefits of the holiday vouchers. The lucrative private sector, on the other hand, has means: lucrative private EHPADs, on which there is much to be said, have the means to distribute holiday vouchers to their employees. If that was the ultimate goal of the manoeuvre, I really do not understand the decision that was made tonight. Employees of the lucrative private sector deserve salary increases, deserve the premium that has been paid in the public sector, would deserve a lot of things; But it is not for citizens to help groups like Korian or Orpea, who pay dividends on their employees' backs. I say here again my incomprehension. Furthermore, as I explained throughout the evening, caregivers were not waiting for medals or holiday vouchers. That is why I will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u308	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u309	The Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group will vote on the bill with the reservations already expressed. We believe that the text is clumsy in the sense that, when a gift is given, it is more important to please the recipient than the giver. The goal is not fully achieved, as caregivers have never claimed this type of gift. On the other hand, they clearly expressed what they expected of us, Members of Parliament: the upgrading of wages and the reorganization of the health system. We hope they will be heard. [[Yolaine de Courson applauds]] In the meantime, parliamentarians are not associated with Ségur de la santé and paramedics, who are the caregivers most affected by the allocation of holiday vouchers, are not at the negotiating table either. I would like to be explained to me how we intend to associate them: perhaps we can imagine that it is enough to cite them to make their expectations known to people who do not know what is happening on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u310	You don't agree, but you vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u311	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u312	The idea being transparent, it can only be good. The Acting Together Group will vote on the bill, while being aware that it is only a small gesture to express our deep gratitude to all the caregivers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This small gesture is important because, in my view, it bears witness to a striking fact of this period of crisis: solidarity. It is indeed an impetus of solidarity of our fellow citizens with the healthcare staff that the text allows, and we must consider it as such. Minister, you assured us that the gift would be exempt from taxation. We will therefore vote on the bill, recognizing that it is a small gesture, but small gestures are sometimes very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u313	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u314	You must not play with feelings, or with generosity; It's a dangerous game that ends up distorting them, and that's what might happen here. If I believe what I have heard this evening, we must expect a festival on the way back and forth with the Senate: I doubt that it is successful, and I fear, on the contrary, that it does not further push a problematic logic of building society. Because, at the end of the day, the problem is the software that you have in your head and that you should come out of. [[Smile]] There is only one thing missing from the bill: it is the digital application that would allow, by clicking on its phone, to arrow the person to whom one wants to give his days of RTT. Perhaps this will happen during the shuttle! We mustn't despair. We are standing next to the plaque, and I believe that the bill will not even have the symbolic significance that you want to avoid. It would be wiser to try to live up to our responsibilities by voting for a social security budget that meets our needs, and listening to what is being said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u315	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u316	Let the carers demonstrate on the street to try to make their demands heard and pull the alarm bell, it does not date today! If we find ourselves in this situation, it is because disastrous political choices have been made for years that we are unfortunately not correcting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u318	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u319	The deputies of La République en marche were elected three years ago out of two values: to release and to protect. To liberate, we have had a beautiful illustration today: to free the citizen's word, to free the will of the citizens, to free the blockages of the law. This is our role as parliamentarians and should have been the role of all the Members of the House this evening. Our role is also to protect. It's the one we've been supporting for three years: we've forgotten it quickly, but we've closed a lot less hospital beds than we did under the previous two legislatures, and we've started the release of the T2A – fee-for-service – which all the care staff said was mortiferous. Some have short memories on this point. Most of all, I want to hear the gift message. In this connection, I thank the rapporteur and the minister: the willingness to thank the caregivers is an important message, and I regret that it is being undermined by political policy in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u320	This should lead you to ask yourself questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One thing is certain: if to show common sense, consistency and benevolence, it is to be from the new world, then I am glad that the group The Republic is on its way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u322	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u323	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Disgust and disgust are perhaps the words that best describe what I feel tonight. The bill I had made to Members of Parliament had a good feeling, and I had the hope that the national unity so much demanded would begin in Parliament. I therefore feel a lot of disappointment, because I think I have demonstrated since I joined the National Assembly that if there is a right-wing member who is not sectarian, it is me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u324	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u325	Is that political humor?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u326	Go on, Mr. Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u327	No, it is not political humour, and I think I have demonstrated it in some debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u328	It's not very nice for your colleagues in the LR group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u329	The bill, I said, was from a good intention. Some of them are smart enough to be beautiful in the Chamber, but many of your colleagues have called me to tell me that they were extremely disappointed with the plagiarism practiced by the Republic on the move. Even if they do not take the floor, their comments reflect my initial intention to work towards national unity. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Caregivers don't wait for a vacation check to be able to leave for two days or to buy a McDo! I really find it a shame to reduce the text to that. What caregivers want is additional purchasing power to use as they see fit. Therefore, despite the original intentions and the debate that took place this evening, the Republican Group will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u330	Regrettable and inconsistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u331	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u332	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for the bill because it is deeply in line with the republican motto. Solidarity embodies freedom, i.e. free choice, will; It also embodies equality, as it allows us to get closer; and it obviously embodies fraternity in our human condition, made of fragility and interdependence. We all need solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will also vote for it to keep intact the formidable chain of solidarity that we saw emerge during the health crisis. In conclusion, I would like to quote Jean Giono, who, speaking of the Hussard on the roof in which he described the health crisis that existed at the time in France and Europe, cholera, said that it revealed "the vilest or noblest temperaments". I believe that the bill reveals the noblest temperaments of the Assembly and of French citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u333	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-02-O1222.u334	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
