ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u2	Mr Bertrand Sorre, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1026, concerning the council of the workers of Avranches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u3	Madam Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you about the future of the advice of Prud'hommes d'Avranches, in the English Channel, and about the Chancery project, which arouses the concern of the Prud'homaux advisers. It is planned to reduce the number of judicial boards in the context of judicial reform and the establishment of judicial tribunals. The council of Avranches's workers is on the list of the twenty-two sites threatened with closure or reduction of sections. I welcome, Madam Minister, the spirit of your reform, which aims to facilitate access to justice and strengthen its proximity, which is an essential point for the professional justice system, the advantage of which, let us recall, is an inexpensive operation based on the mobilization of employers, a mobilization which would be hampered by a remote location. The abolition of a labour court would require more travel than is currently the case, necessarily more costly or even dissuasive. La Manche has a derogation allowing it to have two councils of prud'hommes for a single judicial court, which takes account of the particular geography of this department, which is very extensive in length. It is important to note that the current five sections are very useful and that the fairground hearings are to be resumed soon on the site of the court of Avranches. In addition, the covid-19 pandemic and the containment period forced the postponement of hearings, which is likely to increase the delay in the hearing of cases. Moreover, there may be a significant increase in the volume of cases to deal with the emergence of disputes between employers and employees arising directly from the health crisis. I would add that the same should apply to civil matters in view of the unfortunately expected increase in divorces and cases of domestic violence. In view of these elements, Madam Minister, do you confirm the continuation of the Board of Prud'hommes d'Avranches and all its sections so that I can bring the reassuring news they are waiting for the councillors, local elected officials, employees and employers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u4	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u5	For several years, requests for the adjustment of the staff of labour advisers have been received from the social partners on a recurring basis. In response, a working group was set up within the framework of the Higher Council for Labour, with the aim of revising the number of advisers in view of the evolution of the activities of the various sections, i.e. the number of disputes actually dealt with, and the evolution of economic basins and population flows. The results of the general renewal of the Labour Council have also shown a significant number of seats not filled in the absence of proposals for applications from trade union and professional organisations. The working group therefore examined the situation of each of the 210 labour councils. The main purpose was to adjust the number and distribution of seats between each of the five sections of the same council. In a very limited number of cases, another organisation is envisaged, in particular for the activities of the management and agriculture sections: where there are several management councils in one department, one of them could deal with the whole dispute of the management section and another of the whole dispute of the agriculture section; It would also be possible for a council to deal with the whole agricultural dispute and for the case under the management section to continue to be examined by each of the two councils. For the Avranches Labour Council, I note that fewer than five agricultural cases have been registered for the past three years. It is in this perspective that the consolidation of this dispute could be envisaged. However, no arbitration has been reached at this stage and, in line with the commitments I made during the review of the Justice Reform Bill, I confirm that I am not considering any reorganization projects without consultation with local actors and that I do not wish to close any places of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u6	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u7	A big thank you, Minister, for the accuracy – to which you have accustomed us – of your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u8	[[Smile]] Your day starts well, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u9	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 1042, on cultural life in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u10	Mr Minister of Culture, given the scale of the health crisis we are experiencing and its consequences for all economic sectors, I would like to draw your attention in particular to the situation of cultural associations organising festivals, especially those which were to gather more than 5000 participants this spring and summer: I am thinking of the Festival Au Foin de la Rue, the Festival des Mouillotins or the Festival des Trois Éléphants, in my dear department of Mayenne. You know, Minister, that these gatherings contribute greatly to the attractiveness and dynamism of our territories, as well as to the development of social ties, particularly in rural areas. You also know that these events are based on often precarious financial balances and therefore on the commitment and dedication shown by thousands of volunteers. Many local authorities have set up, as in my region Pays de la Loire, an emergency fund and have maintained the subsidies paid to these associations, despite the cancellation of the demonstrations. Many of them can also benefit from general support mechanisms set up by the State. But, Minister, you also know that it will not be enough, far from it, to ensure their survival and the sustainability of these festivals for the next few years. That is why I would like to know what complementary tools you intend to put in place. Would it not be possible to use the National Fund for the Development of Associative Life in each of the departments concerned, with an exceptional abundance this year, by prioritising its credits to the associations organizing festivals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u11	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u12	You are right, honourable Member, to point out that culture is hit hard by the health crisis, especially the festivals. These are for our compatriots an appointment, usually spring or summer, a moment where to share common emotions in front of the representation of the arts they prefer – of course music, but it can also be cinema, theatre and many more. Volunteers, employees, artists and technicians who participate in the organization of these festivals are collapsed because these appointments are obviously essential in their lives. The Government has immediately taken, as you have pointed out, a number of general provisions for those organizing festivals, such as access to partial unemployment and the use of the solidarity fund to support them, including the very small structures. The state, like most communities, has maintained its festival grants. We also intend to take measures to accompany the festivals in the future: I am of course thinking of what has been announced for technicians and artists of the live show, with intermittents benefiting from an extension of their rights until the end of August 2021. This is essential to enable them to prepare the future festivals calmly. We then decided to set up a festival fund, which will be financed by the local authorities or at least, in part, by the funds they allocate to them and which you have recalled. This fund will make it possible to pass the course of sleep this summer and, possibly, to organize these festivals in different formats, the idea being that they will be reborn in 2021 with all the strength that is expected of them. "Different formats," I said, because you know that if rallies of more than 5000 people are banned until at least the end of August, we're going to look at how to organize, this summer, in a different way than expected, festivals with fewer than 5000 people. A decision will be taken at the end of May depending on the evolution of the epidemic. We will then see if it will be possible to go further in deconfining and allow larger gatherings than those of up to ten people, the only ones allowed today. If so, the Government will consider how to accompany festivals wishing to organize events in this new framework. The latter will therefore be in a format necessarily different from that of recent years, but it would still maintain a certain activity. The determination of the Government, in conjunction with local and regional authorities, is in any case complete, as festivals are essential to the cultural life of the country. The French must indeed be able to meet again everywhere in France, on the occasion of the festivals, to share their emotions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u13	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We count on your action to sustain these great meetings, so important in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u15	The next speaker is Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person, to put her question, No. 1028, on the consequences of the health crisis on tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u16	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the economic activity of the tourism sector has been halted. I would remind you that it represents 8 per cent of gross domestic product. France is therefore severely threatened and its influence is greatly weakened. The State has taken very strong measures, commensurate with the stakes, to protect this sector which is indispensable to the French economy. The announcements made at the end of the interministerial committee on tourism, on 14 May, met the expectations of the actors: the orders relating to assets, partial unemployment, the loans guaranteed by the State and the assurance given by the Government to extend and adapt the aid for the necessary time, were highly appreciated, as was the announcement of the cancellation of the charges because it was indeed a matter of considering, for some operators, a white year and therefore to organize their survival pending the recovery. Beyond the economic front, social tourism, renowned in my report to the Prime Minister, "tourism for all", must be the subject of a special mobilisation because it intends to play its full role. In the words of Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, tourism will be "blue, white, red" this year. Yes, let's say it loud and clear: only tourism solidarity will save the 2020 season. But this can only be done if all French people have the ability to go on holiday to France, knowing that foreigners will unfortunately not be on the appointment. Last year, however, still one in three Frenchmen did not go on vacation. What will happen this year as France approaches a major economic crisis? Social tourism could not be mentioned at the interministerial council... Yet the conclusions of my information report, Tourism for All, are on the negotiating table. In this regard, can you confirm that, by the end of May, measures to help people leave on vacation, such as the increased circulation of the holiday voucher, the development of the summer camps or other mobility support measures, will be well announced and what forms these measures could take?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u17	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u18	Thank you, Mrs Fontenel-Person, for the work you are doing and in particular for the report on Tourism for All you have written. This report, which is very useful and inspiring, will be widely applied and will be the subject of various announcements. It is necessary to use both the long view, to have a long-term vision, and the microscope, to ensure, in the very short term, the development of the summer season 2020. The latter, although it will certainly be very different from those we have seen in previous years, because of the various health protocols that will have to be applied, will nevertheless, I hope, be just as successful for the French. The blue, white and red summer I call for will require, very clearly, action on social tourism. The President of the Republic gathered last Friday the ministers concerned with this issue to work on these arrangements, which will be structured around several measures. Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, and Gabriel Attal, his Secretary of State, are working on the organization of "learning holidays" and the resumption of certain holiday settlements. We must also, more than ever, encourage the discovery classes – we are working with UNAT, the National Union of Tourism Associations. With regard to infrastructure, various measures aimed at abunding funds for the renovation of certain establishments have already been agreed upon at the CIT – Interministerial Committee on Tourism – which was held on Thursday, 14 May. They are a first step. In addition, Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing, is actively working on the issue of neighbourhoods of city politics, in conjunction with several community actors. In addition, in your report, you refer to the system of holiday vouchers. For this season, we are working, in particular with the regions, on the creation of a specific mechanism to propose a tourism voucher 2020. The goal is to add up efforts. A meeting on this issue was held yesterday at my office, and the President of the Republic wishes us to announce, at the beginning of June, all the measures that will allow as many French people as possible to go on holiday after the traumatic episode that we have experienced. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to all the work carried out by the Fédération nationale de l'hôtelière de plein air, the FNHPA, which, as everyone knows, represents half of the accommodation available and helps to welcome many French during their holidays. Camping managers are looking forward to welcoming the French again – and perhaps also nationals of other nationalities if sanitary and traffic conditions in Europe allow – because they are hospitality professionals, because they want to offer beautiful experiences to their customers and because France ranks first in this field. They will obviously be a very important component of a successful summer 2020 for all French people. I thank you once again for your contribution to the head of the study group on the exploitation of tourism activities, which is providing very valuable assistance in this moment of crisis in order to best manage the economic consequences of the epidemic for the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u19	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to put his question, No. 1039, on tourism during the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u20	You have indeed participated, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Fifth Interministerial Committee on Tourism, chaired by the Prime Minister. The latter has announced a series of devices that you have just described. However, these measures are not such as to replace the turnover generated by the arrival of customers. However, you know that there is still uncertainty as the state of health emergency will continue in July. The question will therefore arise as to the real possibility for the French to go on holiday, on the understanding that, given the partial closure of our borders and the state of our transport, there will be few foreigners. I'll ask three questions. First, do you have any forecasts of activity in the tourism and hotel and restaurant sectors in July, particularly during the first fortnight of this month? Secondly, I obviously welcome the launch of the communication campaign to promote stays in France, entitled 'This summer, I am visiting France', especially since the Members of the Republican Group proposed it to you under another name.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u22	But why not provide, as a complement, for measures of defiance, exemption from charges, or other financial incentives, such as holiday reservations? We suggested that you do this in a letter that we sent to you. Finally, I would like to know whether a refund of the municipalities which grant exemption from road rights for terraces of cafes and restaurants is provided, in order to encourage the generalisation of this measure and to encourage the passage on the terrace.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u24	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u25	As you know, the President of the Republic has made tourism a national priority. This was demonstrated during his meeting with industry professionals on 24 April, after which aid measures to the sector, representing an effort of EUR 10 billion, had been announced. The Head of State had also called for a genuine rescue plan to be deployed. This is what was announced last Thursday: an additional EUR 8 billion will be spent on it, bringing the effort to support the tourism sector to EUR 18 billion – which needs it, because it has been hit first, and in full swing, by the crisis. First of all, it is important for national tourism to go back, which will mean reviving the engine of domestic consumption. As everyone knows, two thirds of the country's tourism revenues come from the French themselves. Moreover, because of the difficulties in travelling, not only within the European Union but throughout the world, the 90 million foreign tourists who visit France each year, including 17 million in the summer season, will not or will not be present at the meeting. It is therefore important that we support, in a spirit of solidarity, tourism professionals, who are very affected by the health crisis. We have made arrangements to allow departures on vacation. The latter will be necessary: the French need to take a bowl of air after having experienced these particularly anxious events. We have indeed launched the campaign "This summer, I am visiting France", which we have drawn inspiration from, not so much from the deputies of the group Les Républicains – you will forgive me for not paying you copyright – as from the heritage professionals, like Stéphane Bern, particularly mobilized on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u26	Maybe he's got his card to the Republicans...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u27	This campaign will be relayed by Atout France, which will naturally work with the territories, regions or departments, which are all tourist destinations in France. With regard to the prospects for this summer, the announcement, on 14 May, of the fact that the French could go on holiday in July and August, created a real psychological click: all the testimonies of the professionals in the sector that have reached me since last Thursday indicate a leap in reservations. This is the case, for example, of the Belambra Clubs tourist residence chain, which told me that its reservation deficit compared to last year had risen from 85% to 15%: if the balance remains negative, there is, overall, a significant recovery in bookings. This is also the case for a group as important as Pierre &amp; Holidays-Center Parks, which reported bookings up 20% compared to the same period last year. All this seems to me to be going in the right direction. In order to encourage the French to reserve, we have also made contact with the professionals in the sector. I would like to thank the UMIH – Union des métiers et des industries de l'hôtel –, the GNI – Groupement national des indépendants –, the travel companies, or the SETO – Syndicat des entreprises du tour-operating – who have agreed to pursue a policy of cancelling reservations which is particularly flexible in the event of a covid-19-related event, by expanding the possibilities of reimbursement. There is no doubt that this flexibility will help consumers to project themselves and that they will not hesitate to reserve. Support for local authorities will take the form of direct State support for 50% of the CFE exemption – business land assessment – which they could grant to tourism companies, up to a reduction of up to two thirds of the CFE. We found that some communities have taken such measures to support tourism stakeholders. Work continues. I will convene today the Tourism Committee, as I do every week to take stock, to have a feedback and to adapt the arrangements as soon as the need arises. We are all mobilized around this national jewel of tourism to prepare for the 2020 season, which will certainly be a bit different but, I hope, just as successful as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u28	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u29	In the Vaucluse, UNESCO World Heritage sites, such as the Palais des Papes or Orange's ancient theatre, remain closed and the Avignon festival has been cancelled. I therefore do not fully share your optimism, particularly for the month of July. I reiterate my proposal to end the zoning and shift the summer holidays in September in order to extend the tourist season.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u30	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor to put his question, No. 1021, concerning the burial abroad of persons who died during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u31	During the covid -19 epidemic, many people lost a loved one. I extend my deepest condolences to all these people. The loss of a loved one is always dramatic and, in the epidemic context we know, it is a very hard blow to families because, for health reasons, they have been prevented from attending the last breath of their loved one and, for these same reasons, families have been forbidden to gather with their deceased, as they had imagined. As you know, for a large number of people living in France, the funeral of a family member takes place in their country of origin. This is a strong cultural tradition, often responding to the deceased's last will. However, since the beginning of the crisis, the repatriation of the bodies of the deceased to their country of origin has been prohibited. The mourning and burial of the dead are among the oldest human rites. It would be a collective failure not to be able to respect the last wishes of a deceased – that he cannot rest with his spouse or family lineage in his country of origin. Mr Secretary of State, the health crisis we are experiencing must not call into question the foundations of our humanity. I'm sure you share that concern. That is why I ask you what you intend to do to establish international cooperation in order to ensure the return of the bodies abroad, as soon as possible, in accordance with health rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u32	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u33	You are referring to particularly painful episodes that have taken place in recent weeks: these moments when Ankou, armed with its false – to repeat a Breton legend – took away many of our compatriots or people residing in France, causing her lot of pain. To these pains was added the one related to the material conditions imposed by the epidemic, which made it difficult to accompany a loved one in his last moments, or even to respect the last wishes of the deceased. We are fully aware of that. It is all the more complex to address these considerations since, legally, the international transport of bodies of persons who died during the epidemic has not been exempted from the ordinary system. A death pass for an alien or a permit to leave the country is most often required. However, it is well known that several situations have been very complicated to deal with: in some cases, the international transport of a body has been delayed or even prevented, simply because several countries of destination have provisionally refused repatriation of bodies or required a certificate of non-epidemic that could not be issued during a state of health emergency. These difficulties led families to make transitional arrangements, by depositing the body in a temporary vault – as is the case in some cemeteries – or in a depository, for a maximum of six months, before being able to carry out the deceased's wishes and give him a new place of burial abroad. I know that the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities carries out particularly active information work with families, funeral operators and the network of prefectures and consular services. Jean-Yves le Drian and I are very attentive to this situation and do not hesitate to relay to our foreign counterparts the expectations of the families. I hope that, gradually, as the epidemic recedes in different territories, we can finally get these people to accompany their loved ones to their last home. I repeat, I am aware of the complexity of the situation and I know that there is no definitive solution, but I would like to remind you that the work continues unabated in order to shorten the deadlines and bring families closer to this last moment of intimacy that they can have with their loved ones where they wish to be buried.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u34	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u35	Thank you, Minister, for having answered me about the management of these situations in France, but my question was rather about what you intend to do on the diplomatic level, because the question arises with regard to foreign countries, many of which, as you know, are located on the other side of the Mediterranean with regard to my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis. Diplomatic action is needed very quickly, because the families have stored the bodies in cold chambers; However, this situation cannot be prolonged, both because of its cost and because of the need for mourning. So I am counting on you to act on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u36	Mr Stéphane Peu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1024, concerning the catch-up of courses not taught during confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u37	Minister of National Education and Youth, since 16 March, 12 million students have left their classrooms and teachers. Where are we ten weeks later? Clearly, the containment of students has exacerbated social, educational and digital divides. It could not be otherwise, because it is known that access to knowledge is not the same from one family to another, that living conditions, including housing conditions, differ considerably from one family, department or social category to another, and that digital drop-out is a reality for many families. Some rural areas have white areas and some families have only one computer or even one mobile phone. In addition, during this period there was no educational dynamic of the class, which was often replaced by disputes in the siblings to know who would have the only digital link of the family. Thus, there cannot be considered to have been educational continuity during confinement: there are those for whom the ties have been completely broken, those for whom they have been maintained by the efforts of parents and teachers, but for whom the teaching has been dotted – dotted sometimes very spaced – and also, fortunately, those who have been able to continue learning. Our education system cannot work without the school, the classrooms, the teachers, the group dynamics. As you have done on several occasions, I would like to commend the commitment and courage shown by teachers to maintain the educational link at all costs during this period, through innovation, mobilization and, at times, very strong personal commitment. Since 11 May, the recovery has been under way. It is, we know, very partial and is done on a voluntary basis, in conditions which can be very different from one place to another depending on the configuration of the cities and classes and the sociology of the communes or neighbourhoods, but if it is no longer the confinement, it is not the resumption of the school either. In fact, it's not daycare, but it's not really school either. In my city, a teacher told me about "pedagogical reception". So the question of catching up with the confinement weeks is raised, and I imagine you and your department are thinking about it. How can we avoid perpetuating this three-month black hole, regardless of the means used? Is it envisaged, as some academics and teachers propose, that in the next few years a smoothing of the three months of the programme which could not have been studied, so that this delay is not in any way endorsed, which would cause a little more inequality?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u38	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u39	I share much of your disappointment – but to a large extent only. I readily subscribe to the backbone of your argument, which is to say that school is fundamental – in other words, that you cannot do without school. For those who would not have been convinced of this before confinement, the latter has unfortunately demonstrated that the school is needed, and that is why the deconfination is now necessary. School is the key to the unity of the Republic, to equal opportunities and to the compensation of family inequalities – you said it very well and we will obviously agree on this point. However, the picture should not be blackened. There was, in fact, educational continuity. Unfortunately, some have escaped: this is the case of the famous 4% drop-outs. This figure is, moreover, an average: it is, in some places, much higher, and in others much less. It is also necessary to count with general imperfections. However, let us not minimize problems or forces. Minimizing the problems would not be to see that Europe as a whole – the continent that has been the most affected in the world – is somehow affected by European societies in their connection with school. That is why we must not only restore this link, but also, given the difficulties we have had, try to strengthen it. Nor should we minimize the forces. You said it, the teachers committed themselves. France was probably one of the best countries in terms of distance learning, if only because we had prepared this system from class to home for two years and because the teachers were beautifully engaged. Yesterday I was in a college in Pacy-sur-Eure that was going back to work. The students I saw had had the pedagogical continuity and what was offered to them was not a "pedagogical reception" – I disagree with you. Above all, we must not denigrate what is happening. If I asked that the beginning of school be done first by level, at the same time as by priority audience, it is good to ensure the structure of national education: it is really a matter of classing in May and June, even if it is done in a different way. The school must not be a daycare. It is the place for the transmission of knowledge, and it is the case at the moment, even if, I grant it to you, it is still imperfect. In order to answer your question directly, it is certain that a catch-up course is necessary. Throughout June, I will hold consultations to reflect on the year 2020-2021. This will mainly be achieved through free school support modules. My reflection on this point includes the summer holidays and the year 2020-2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u40	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor to put his question, No. 1035, concerning the reopening of schools during periods of defunction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u41	Mr Minister for National Education and Youth, as our country is going through an unprecedented crisis and has entered a second phase, that of progressive definity, the question of the reopening of schools is highly sensitive and, most certainly, very thorny. I would also like to thank all the teachers who, as you have just said, have ensured, through you, the pedagogical continuity, which has sometimes been made very difficult by the social and territorial inequalities, as well as by the digital divide which I have already mentioned to you many times. I would like to understand the reasons behind your decision, in particular to ensure the care of the most vulnerable children. Indeed, I was not convinced, because of the responsibility you place on elected officials and the additional costs incurred for the communities – which will probably not be compensated. For example, many Oise mayors have issued decrees that differ from the reopening of schools, or even postpone it until September. As a former mayor, I fully appreciate their reluctance. I am also not convinced of the educational content proposed. In many cases, the return to school is accompanied by a return to normal, but sometimes it is limited to day care and isolates children from each other to limit contact, which leads to frustration for them. Last but not least, I am not convinced either because of the health risk that your decision puts children at the expense of parents, teachers and municipal staff. In the Oise department, which is still classified red, schools close their doors only a few days after reopening them, due to the many cases of covid -19 detected. As in many situations, the benefits and disadvantages must be balanced here. Here, the balance undeniably leans on the wrong side, and I am not happy about it – quite the contrary. What first assessment do you draw from this particular re-entry and how do you assess the risk of a back-up, at a time when, in my department of Oise, many teachers are asserting their right to withdraw?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u42	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u43	Your question is, in the middle of it, what would you do if the decision to make was up to you. I take it that you are in favour of returning students to school in September. We must assume responsibility for this position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u44	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u45	This means that you accept the stalling of entire sections of our youth, because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u46	Why, then, only primary school students?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u47	This choice, which is not the choice made by the majority of other European countries, would not be responsible at all. Already – and I would like to refer you to the answer I have just given to Mr. Little – the few weeks of confinement that we have known inevitably produce stalls. This is not, however, a French specificity, and since we liked to compare ourselves with other countries throughout the crisis, I invite you to compare what is happening in Germany with what has been done in France: you will not be ashamed of being French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u48	I didn't talk about Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u49	Distance education has been quite successful, despite many flaws, but has not prevented a drop-out, especially in vocational high school, as well as in primary school, where we have difficulties today to bring back the students of CP – preparatory course – and CM1 – middle first year course –, of REP + – enhanced priority education network – at the same time as they have to return to school. This school is not a day-care centre and you do not do any service to the school of the Republic by pretending that it is one, precisely as we are working to ensure that it is not, in particular by means of the entry by level and all the measures that you criticize. If we were to do what you want, the school would indeed be a daycare, but that is not what we are doing. This is how we implement the entry by level, with educational circulars for each level, and provide support to the teaching teams. Of course, we have taken full advantage of local flexibility, both to ensure that the teaching teams organize themselves and that the municipalities do what they want. I take it from your remarks that you stand in solidarity with the small percentage of municipalities that have decided not to reopen schools by September – 7% to 8% at this stage, and this figure will decrease further. It's a position you have to assume once again. Note, however, that 92% of the mayors of France have reasoned differently, regardless of their political tendency. Of course, the drawbacks can always be stressed on each point, but it is a sport that is a little too easy. However, as you have said, it is necessary to measure them to the benefits, and I have no difficulty in assuming before you that, in this area, we have measured this report, and that is why we are in the process of disfellowshiping. Other countries observe what we are doing because France has a particularly interesting way to fight against school dropout caused by confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u50	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u51	Minister, you are talking about dropping out of school for our students, but in my department of Oise, where it was decided to reopen all primary schools to avoid dropping out of vulnerable children, there are also drop-outs in secondary schools and universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u52	That's why we're going to try to reopen them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u53	So why reopen schools, where our young people can be infected with covid-19? I note a clear contradiction in your reasoning since the beginning of the crisis: you previously said that classes should be closed quickly to combat the spread of the virus, and you now become a strong advocate of reopening, as the virus circulates strongly in our Oise department and in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u54	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 1048, concerning the reopening of schools during periods of defunction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u55	Minister of National Education and Youth, I would like to draw your attention to the conditions of the school year in the elementary and pre-elementary school after confinement in my department of Sarthe and in my city of Le Mans. The protocols established by the Ministry set out the framework within which teaching, educational, service and technical staff should intervene to ensure their safety and, of course, the safety of children and, thus, of their families. For nursery and primary schools, a departmental plan was to be drawn up by the Department of National Education Services. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff who have worked during the confinement and who are working in this period of debunking. Only a few days before the date of the beginning of the deconfinition, many officials had not yet received precise indications on the collaboration of communal staff in the material organization, the disinfection of premises, the determination of barrier devices, the conditions for the resupply of catering services. A few days after this gradual re-entry, what about, first of all, in my department, the Sarthe? How many children have they been able to join their school? More generally, I would like to know the status of the implementation of the protocol, the difficulties identified, the means used and the arrangements for collaboration between education services, schools and elected representatives. We have a lot of feedback from staff and families who still tell us today that not everything is in place. I would like to know how public officials work together and how they plan to work together. Finally, with regard to the planned closures of pre-elementary and elementary classes, I would ask that the proposals of the administration be reconsidered taking into account the months during which registrations could not be made, the hesitations of the families and the difficulties encountered by the children in view of a last quarter which was not quite like the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u56	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u57	Thank you for your question, which complements the previous ones. Of course, we fully assume that the month of May is a month of transition, with deconfining being a real organizational challenge. In addition, we have always known that we will not return all children to institutions in a perfectly simultaneous way but in a gradual way. We take this choice, the only one we can. All countries are subject to the same constraints, which is unfortunately normal. Your question concerns the Sarthe, a department that is quite representative of what is happening in France: 100% of the colleges have been able to reopen since yesterday to welcome the sixth and fifth pupils, which is a good point for the students, as well as 99% of the schools in 98% of the municipalities. So the Sarthe is at the outposts of the deconfinement. A real joint work has been carried out, around a thematic group, with the associations of mayors, the DDCS, the departmental directorate of social cohesion, the CAF, the family allowance fund, as well as with the region as regards transport. Initially, this was mainly for first-degree institutions. The first meetings were held in early May. The issues of catering and work outside the classroom, in particular, were the subject of wide-ranging consultation. There is a heterogeneity of situations: some small country schools have fewer than 15 students, which allows for an almost normal return to class – unlike the day-care school. This thematic working group was expanded on 12 May to the departmental council to take stock, with the Ministry of National Education, of the re-entry of colleges since 29 April. A deconfining committee, with the participation of the communities, was even convened by the Prefect on May 7-14. The equipment supply, which includes the masks we provide to adults and college students, the hydro-alcoholic gel and the paediatric mask reserves for elementary school, has been carried out within time to ensure the pre-entry of teachers and the reception of students, at primary school since last week and at college since yesterday. In the first degree, 86 per cent of schools reopened on 12 May, a percentage which has since increased. The recovery was set for 18 May by 14 per cent of the municipalities. According to the first days, out of 17,500 kindergarten students, about 2000 were present in class on Tuesday, May 12, and 2500 on Thursday, May 14, and Friday, May 15, or 20 to 25 per cent of the total. At the elementary level, 4000 out of 29,000 students were present this week; A rise in power is therefore necessary. At the college, 5611 pupils in the sixth and fifth grades were expected at the beginning of the week. Since 12 May, we have been informed of suspicions of contamination, the first cases having led to the closure of the school by the mayor, even before the results are known. In this regard, I would like to say that we are very cautious, which explains the choice of closing schools as a preventive measure. Finally, the rate of supervision will increase next year, in each commune of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u58	Mr Daniel Labaronne, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 1029 concerning the organisation of examinations for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u59	I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the disparities that have been noted, from one academy to another, in the implementation of the PAPs, the personal support plans, and the adjustments to the exams for students with disabilities. If it is not linked to the current crisis, this problem will again arise in the medium term. For example, some academies refer, for the implementation of the PAP, to Circular No. 2015-016 of 22 January 2015, while others have written their own circular, resulting in significant differences between regions and inequalities between students. This first concerns the finding of the disorders which, according to the 2015 circular, "is made by the national education doctor or by the doctor who follows the child". However, in some regions, as a result of the publication of internal circulars, there is no longer any mention of the attending physician and families are necessarily referred to a school doctor who sometimes does not exist... Similarly, the list of documents required for the preparation of a file varies considerably from region to region. Optionally, psychological and paramedical assessments become mandatory in some academies, while the cost of these tests discourages some families from passing them, and the waiting time for results slows down the implementation of the PAP. The same malfunctions can be found in the application forms for layout at the exams. For dyslexic disorders in particular, the ANAPEDYS federation, the National Association of Parents' Associations of Dyslexic Students, reports on several developments in its member associations, which report that some academies prohibit the use of the personal computer and impose that of the centre's computer. On the one hand, the software they use in the classroom is sometimes long enough to install on a rectorat computer and, on the other hand, a software installed in haste without having been tested in all its features may have malfunctions during the examination. For Dragon software, for example, the transfer of votes can be done more or less well, which could create problems for the candidate whose voice would not be recognized. Students are also used to using specific keyboard shortcuts, created by their occupational therapist, which they will not find on the centre's computer. Finally, the significant stress caused by the examination for students with disabilities can be increased by the discovery, on the day of the tests, of a computer different from their own, which they may not be able to master. It seems that, on these points, it is preferable that the rectorates strictly apply Circular No. 2015-016 of 22 January 2015 without seeking to clarify or modify it. I would therefore like to know, Minister, whether you share this finding of a difference in application between academies and, if so, whether you are considering measures to ensure that the January 2015 circular will be properly considered and respected in institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u60	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u61	Your question is about the national nature of our examination policy for students with disabilities. The Education Code states that the public education service "contributes to equality of opportunity and to combating social and territorial inequalities in academic and educational success" and "recognises that all children share the capacity to learn and progress. It ensures that all children are included in school, without any distinction." As you know, we have made many advances on the issue of students with disabilities. Even yesterday, I was in video conferencing with the rectors as well as with the directors of ARS, the regional health agencies, in order to prepare for the next re-entry. This issue, also followed by Secretary of State Sophie Cluzel, is at the heart of our concerns. I would remind you that the President of the Republic considers this a priority. The 2019 school year was marked by progress in school inclusion and this will be even more so for the 2020 school year, including the specific point you have addressed. Article D 311-13 of the Education Code provides that "students whose educational difficulties result from a learning disorder may benefit from a personalized accompanying plan provided for in Article L. 311-7, after consulting the national education doctor". This is what you refer to in Circular No. 2015-016 of 22 January 2015, which states that "the finding of the disorders is made by the doctor of the national education or by the doctor who follows the child, in view of the examination he carries out and, if necessary, the psychological and paramedical checks made with the pupil". If the doctor who follows the child is entitled to make the observation of the disorders, he cannot give the opinion himself as to the appropriateness of setting up the personalized accompanying plan. Finally, in order to ensure uniform treatment throughout the country, at the heart of your question, I would point out that a standard document, downloadable, appears in the annex to the circular. It must be used in schools in order to facilitate the homogeneity of academic practices – necessary, you are right – and the continuity and follow-up of developments. If the academies or directorates of the departmental departments of national education draw up their own circulars, they must simply enable the procedure to be adapted to the local situation while respecting the national framework. One of the improvements I mentioned was the creation of an inclusive departmental school service, which I wanted to be operational from the start of 2019. It aims to provide a close response to families, not to change the rules. If a territory lacks a school doctor, it is the technical medical adviser of the academy inspector who must ensure a response to the needs identified locally. The creation of a national information system, designed to take into account students with special educational needs – a project that I very much care about – is under development. Eventually, in the fall of 2022, this digital tool, which will provide the academies with an inclusive course booklet, will provide teachers with the opportunity to clarify the educational adaptations and adjustments put in place on school time and to inform families about them. PAPs, which can be created and handed over to the family after the doctor has advised, will therefore necessarily be harmonized nationally. With regard to the arrangements for examinations, the situations you mentioned exist. In the vast majority of cases, the candidate composes with his or her own equipment. The loan of computer equipment by the examination centre remains possible. I am short of time to give you all the provisions provided for but know that the adjustments and adaptations obtained in the framework of an IAP, an individualised reception project, a PAP or a PPS, a personal school project, will be implemented for the tests maintained and for the September tests, without any other medical or administrative advice, whatever the modalities of the examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u62	The next item is the question by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, No. 1051, on the consequences of the health crisis for local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u63	As you know, Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, the health crisis in the country results in sometimes significant revenue losses for local and regional authorities. The first estimates given by Minister Darmanin show losses of EUR 4 billion for 2020, and about EUR 11 billion for 2021. If, of course, the consequences of this epidemic are not felt uniformly by all the local authorities, those who derive their revenues from tourism are particularly affected – I am thinking in particular of the local bloc. Tourism-related activities can raise up to 85% of the tax resources of certain EPCIs, with public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, sometimes accounting for up to 50% of their operating revenue. This is the case of an agglomeration, in my constituency of Seine-et-Marne, whose activity is essentially linked to the presence of Disneyland Paris and Villages nature parks. This case was also mentioned at a conference with the Prefect on Thursday, which you attended. Undoubtedly, these communities will find themselves in a difficult financial situation as early as 2020 with a sharp drop in residence tax revenues, from 8 to 10 billion euros for the case I have just mentioned, and which will deteriorate considerably in 2021 and 2022. It will then be very difficult for them to balance their operating section. Can you tell us what exceptional arrangements could be put in place to accompany these local authorities. The elected representatives, as responsible persons, know very well that they will not be able to obtain compensation for the euro near the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u65	Could, however, be considered exceptional arrangements such as exemptions from contributions to the FPIC, the National Fund for Equalization of Intercommunal and Communal Resources or to the FSRIF, the Solidarity Fund of the Communes of the Île-de-France region, or such as the removal of the residual tax levy of the CRFP, the contribution to the recovery of public finances, in order to offer them new room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u66	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u67	You are right to recall that local and regional authorities play an important role in this crisis and that the financial consequences will be numerous for them, but in a very uneven way, depending on the stratum and above all on the moment. Some tax instruments are contemporaneous, such as, of course, the tax on residence or the tax on horse racing and casinos. The tourist communes are therefore the ones most affected. I would like to add to this the overseas communes – albeit very far from the Seine-et-Marne – faced with the fall in the revenues of the granting of the sea. For other tax instruments, there is a time lag. This concerns in particular the economic taxation of intercommunalities, in particular with the two components of the territorial economic contribution – CET – which are the business land assessment – CFE – and the business value added assessment – CVAE. This lag depends on the reporting level of companies, but it is at least one year. To be complete, we must mention a third aspect that we have raised with the elected representatives of your department, the Member. I am thinking of the transfer rights for consideration, the DMTOs, which are of interest to the communal bloc as well as to the departmental bloc. They are to be classified as "contemporary" tax tools: these notary fees, to speak intelligibly, if they are not collected for a certain period of time, are immediately lacking the communities concerned as well as the equalization system between departments. That is the observation; We need to document it. As I said last week in Melun, I don't propose any numbers. Indeed, each of them goes from its estimate, but things are very complicated to establish, especially for the CVAE which did not exist during the 2008 crisis – while for the DMTO we have a reference element. At this point, however, we can say that obviously we will not abandon any territorial community. You have to say it, it's important. Many emergency tools are available. I note that at present, fortunately, they are under solicited, which means that the tension is not insurmountable. I am thinking of the advances of twelfths of total operating appropriations and also of taxation, made so that the level of cash in the local and regional authorities is always satisfactory and none of them fail. I do not have time to deal with the issue of spending on the fight against covid -19. Together with Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, we have found a number of solutions to ensure that these expenditures do not overly destabilize communities' operating budgets. Once we have documented all the losses, we will have to ask ourselves the question of the support plan and how we will deal with the problem. There will be legislative meetings – I understand that a bill of amending finance will soon be submitted to you; However, given what I have told you about time lags, we see that this will have to be dealt with in the finance bill by 2021 at the end of the year. We will then have to see how we can intervene. As far as revenue is concerned, honourable Member, you said that compensation would not be made to the nearest euro. Unfortunately, local taxation is far too complex to adopt this approach: situations will have to be examined on a case-by-case basis, depending on the tax instruments that do not all have the same nature and functioning. Questions will also arise regarding equalization between the territories, intercommunalities, municipalities and the richest and poorest departments. The construction site is very large. Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, who chairs the delegation to local authorities and the decentralization of your assembly, is commissioned by the Government to support and document this important topic. Finally, the role of communities in economic recovery must be mentioned, in particular through public investment. It is so that they can act in this area that we want to give them visibility as soon as possible. Madam Member, I thank you for your attention to these issues, including your intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u68	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to put his question, No. 1030, on bed bugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u69	Bed bugs pose a major public health problem. While they had almost disappeared from homes since the 1950s, bed bugs have increased sharply in recent years. The Right to Housing association has thus communicated the number of 400,000 homes infested in 2019 compared to 200000 in 2017, a doubling in two years. If bed bugs do not present a risk of vector transmission of infectious agents, their bites cause itching and invasiveness such that they cause daily handicaps to those who suffer from it, the vast majority of whom are the most poorly housed. Indeed, a Quebec study showed that a bug infestation strongly affected mental health: victims had up to five times as many symptoms of anxiety and sleep disorders. The infestation by bed bugs is therefore a real public health issue. This phenomenon does not seem to slow down and even accelerates, especially in Seine-Saint-Denis, which has made confinement much more complicated. Although awareness-raising measures had been taken by the Government, prevention was not sufficient if it was not accompanied by a genuine eradication policy. Treatment of infested housing costs between 300 and 350 euros, even though the households concerned are sometimes those of the poorest. Moreover, treatment cannot be effective if it concerns only one home when a whole building is concerned. Moreover, chemical control of bed bugs is harmful to health and the environment. Mechanical and thermal control seems much more effective but, alas, complicated to implement for the inhabitants due to lack of information, means and instructions for use. In order to effectively combat the proliferation of bed bugs, the Government launched an information campaign earlier this year, with a dedicated telephone number and website. At the same time, the launch of a mission to the Assembly was announced to study possible legislative developments. In addition, some cities are implementing measures such as the free loan of kits or the organisation of awareness-raising and training workshops. In the face of the urgency of this public health problem, I would like to know what solutions the Government is considering to eradicate this phenomenon in a sustainable manner. Does the Government intend to provide financial assistance to the inhabitants in their efforts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u70	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u71	Mr President, I know that you have invested a great deal in this matter. The minister responsible for the city and housing, Julien Denormandie, who asks you to excuse his absence, gave me the answer he prepared for you. Indeed, we note a strong growth in the scourge of bed bugs, especially in your department, with a doubling of infested housing. This phenomenon affects the different types of habitat, regardless of their use or standard of living. In the face of a major public health problem, the Government wished to provide, as you recalled, a strong and comprehensive response, whether it be treatment or funding. On February 21, Julien Denormandie launched a plan to prevent and control bed bugs in the habitat. This plan includes an information component essential to provide responses and to allow for effective and timely treatment in the event of an infestation. The prevention advice and the first steps to be taken in the event of the presence of bugs are summarized on the site of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. We also launched a communication campaign in February to put an end to the feeling of shame that some of our fellow citizens may feel because, as we must recall, everyone can be touched by bed bugs. We must therefore take the right steps, and quickly, to prevent them from settling in and reproducing in our homes. The plan also includes a partnership with the Chamber of Trade Unions of Disinfection, Disinfection and Deratization Industries. It will allow the certification of professionals from next December. This is a first step in ensuring the training of professionals, the effectiveness and the quality of the treatments offered. However, as you have pointed out, it remains to be done to eradicate this scourge: the division of responsibilities between the tenant and the owner must be clarified, it is an important lead; in collective housing, a global struggle must be thought of at the building level, as housing treatment is not always sufficient and shows its limits; the dissemination of information needs to be strengthened; building managers must be able to intervene to eradicate these pests as soon as possible when they are reported. Finally, the issue of financing will be central with the necessary pooling of risks, as well as support for the most vulnerable occupants. It was to deal with all these issues that a mission was entrusted by the Prime Minister to your colleague, Member of Parliament Cathy Racon-Bouzon, on 5 March. Its work is still under way; In a few months, it will provide broad and very concrete answers to this concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u72	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u73	I thank you for these clarifications and for the progress you have just made – that is the correct term, because we need to move forward quickly. I obviously trust Cathy Racon-Bouzon; I will be at his side so that we can collectively move forward on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u74	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No. 1020, on hunger in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u75	People are hungry! That is what voluntary volunteers in Seine-Saint-Denis say today. For in this department, the coronavirus not only kills more than elsewhere: the epidemic and its consequences also plunge many already fragile inhabitants into even greater precariousness. In a department where almost 28% of the population live below the poverty line – a proportion that is twice the national average – the health crisis is coupled with a social crisis, a crisis of such gravity that it is first and foremost a food crisis. To be hungry, to wonder how one will feed his family: the question today haunts the daily lives of thousands of inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis. Everywhere queues lie in front of food distribution points. The number of applications to the community centres for social action is exploding. The people involved were not only the same as before confinement: many families who did not have recourse to it had no choice but to seek food aid, and threatened to fall into poverty. The prefect of the Seine-Saint-Denis recently estimated that 15,000 to 20,000 people were at risk of having difficulty feeding themselves. Many others can still, but only at the price of heartbreaking choices, unspeakable deprivations. A resident of Aubervilliers told me a few days ago: "My husband has been acting and since mid-March he has earned nothing. We only receive allowances for children. I won't pay my rent in April. My priority is to feed my three children. How can we accept this today in France, in the sixth world economic power? Since the beginning of March, it has been above all the momentum of solidarity among the population, the associations, that has made it possible to deal with the emergency. For many people, the distribution of food baskets, basic necessities, human support, too, has been a crucial aid, often the only one. We must pay tribute to all those who have committed themselves without counting. But these donations alone are not enough, especially since the social consequences of the crisis will be lasting. It is up to the State to take responsibility and act massively to protect all those who need it. However, the Government did not take the measure of the social emergency that struck the Seine-Saint-Denis. This was already the case before the crisis: the plan for the department, announced by the Prime Minister in October 2019, was not up to date. Your deafness is even more serious today. The exceptional aid of EUR 150 and EUR 100 per child that has been announced, paid only once to the most modest households, is not enough, nor is the € 39 million envelope for food aid associations and the distribution of food emergency cheques. You can do more – we know for example that the state has released €7 billion in loans for Air France-KLM! The measures that could be taken immediately are, however, simple. I have already proposed them to the Prime Minister in a letter: to regulate the prices of essential foodstuffs; double the premium to the most modest households and sustain it until the end of the crisis; establishing a truly massive state support for local authorities and associations; suspend the rents of people in difficulty by offsetting the lenders. I could go on. So my question is simple. When will you take the measure of the crisis and its social consequences? When will you deploy a real emergency plan, so that thousands of people, including children, do not feel hungry, today, in Seine-Saint-Denis, at the gates of Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u76	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u77	Thank you for asking me about a vast subject that we took to arms from the beginning of the crisis and even before – you mentioned the plan announced by the Prime Minister last October for a massive investment in a department among the poorest in metropolitan France. I would point out that while food aid is managed by associations, it receives strong and substantial financial support from the State. When we contribute an additional EUR 39 million under an emergency support plan, this amount represents one third of the annual food aid budget of EUR 115 million. The aim is to help associations and families to overcome the difficulties arising from the crisis and to cope with the growing needs. We also accompanied the associations to ensure that the volunteers who could no longer intervene could be replaced thanks to the momentum of solidarity of the government services, the communities and the general public that I also want to acknowledge. We also act when, beyond the €115 million budget, we allow €350 million in challenges to make donations from individuals and businesses, and when we continue to work, as before the crisis, on the purchase of food for associations so that there is no disruption in supply. Seven types of food are expected to arrive in the coming days, milk and butter will be delivered annually in July and other products will arrive in September. It is necessary to prepare for the post-crisis period and to ensure that stocks are always adequate to meet needs. Let me point out that out of a total of 39 million euros, including 14 million food emergency cheques for 100,000 households, the Seine-Saint-Denis has benefited from 2.6 million euros; 25,000 families in the department benefited from these cheques. The prefect, whom you mentioned, evoked 15,000 to 20,000 households; We have therefore provided an answer to the problem. As for the exceptional solidarity aid, it was intended to support families with additional food-related costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u78	Mrs Valérie Beauvais spoke of her question No 1037 on the rehabilitation of the university hospital in Reims.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u79	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] In the preamble, I would like to express my warmest thanks to all the caregivers who continue, under always difficult conditions, their commitment to the patients with covid -19 – not to mention the treatment of other pathologies. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, it is time to finally grant them the payment of their many overtime hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u80	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u81	There will be one before and one after covid -19. I hope that this health crisis, which has mobilised all the human and material resources of our public and private hospitals, will make you aware of the need to guarantee the provision of care. If we knew that the hospital needed more staff, the health crisis made it even more obvious. By staff, of course, I mean nursing staff: it is not a question of adding administrative staff, whose aim is always to reorganize services to the detriment of the means for caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u82	She's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u83	"We came to a saturation of this hospital-company with Excel tables and numerical alignments to type on the doctors by saying: You don't work enough. As you will understand, these words are not mine – although I could have said them – but those of caregivers, published in Le Monde dated May 12, 2020. They reveal not only what they have experienced, but even more their fear for tomorrow's hospital. I want to talk to you about the CHU in Reims and the unfortunate announcement, made in February 2019 by the Prime Minister, to further reduce its capacity in the context of the second phase of the rehabilitation project, by removing more than forty beds, which would be in addition to those already abolished at the time of the first phase of restructuring. I recall that the removal of 150 beds was validated in 2015 by the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Hospital Care – COPERMO. The Prime Minister's announcement of the removal of 43 extra beds had a devastating impact. I had seized Olivier Véran's predecessor, Agnes Buzyn, in May 2019, and I am still waiting for his answer today. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, can you reassure the management and nursing staff of the CHU de Reims and tell me that taking into account the health crisis related to covid -19 will lead you to interrupt the process of removing 43 beds in this hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u84	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u85	I would like to take advantage of your question to pay tribute to the commitment of all caregivers – especially, since you are inviting me to do so, to those in the Greater East region. Without their dedication during these long weeks, our health care system, in this region and beyond, throughout the country, would not have been able to respond to the crisis. Thanks to them, far from having failed, he was at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u86	It's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u87	This weekend, the Minister spoke more generally on the subject by announcing the launch of a "Health Segur", starting on 25 May, which will allow, in conjunction with the medical and paramedical professionals, to learn the lessons of the crisis and identify the answers to be given. These, sometimes, do not require much: it is often enough to remove regulatory blockages. It will also be necessary to go further in the area of salary revalorisation. Work will begin shortly. As for the CHU de Reims, the establishment is carrying out a major real estate project of 410 million euros and divided into three phases. The first, concerning surgery, provides for the construction of a building of 489 beds and seats, and a technical tray, which is expected to enter service in 2023. The second, on medicine, provides for the construction of a second building with 334 beds and places, and a dialysis centre. The third, finally, provides for the demolition of the current Robert Debré hospital. The global file, as you said, was validated in COPERMO at the end of 2015; The same was true for the first phase, which focused mainly on surgery and associated technical trays. The State supports the project to the tune of 110 million euros – a major accompaniment. The second phase, which mainly concerns medical activity, was discussed in 2019 in order to produce the final preliminary draft and to meet the planned schedule. Important discussions were held on the capacity of the institution. The main issue is the projection of the evolution of the need for care, given the marked ageing of the population of the Marnais territory. At this point, you noted, the arbitration has not yet taken place. Reflection should resume at the end of the health crisis and will obviously have to learn the lessons of the epidemic, with the aim of providing solutions where necessary, depending on the capacities and needs of each individual.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u88	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u89	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Thank you for your answer and I hope that the decisions that will be announced by the Minister will go in that direction. The removal of these 43 beds is a real disaster because, beyond the present crisis, the French population is ageing. Ambulatory medicine is not the panacea and it is therefore very important to keep these beds in the second phase of restructuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u90	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor to put his question, No. 1047, on home helpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u91	We did not wait for the present health crisis to discover the difficulties that home helpers faced in the daily accompaniment of the most fragile. The conditions under which they had to operate at the beginning of the epidemic must still be recalled. In contact with populations at risk – elderly or disabled people, chronically ill people... – these personnel did not dispose of the protections – masks, gels, protective kits – in sufficient quantity. Yet they have accomplished their mission with a great professional conscience because it is in times of crisis that the most fragile are overexposed. Sometimes isolated from their families, they depended heavily on home helpers to keep a minimum of social ties – so here I want to thank them for their unwavering commitment. In February 2019, on the occasion of a previous oral question, I had already raised the difficulties encountered by these professions: the upgrading of their activities and the consideration of organisational aspects were already relevant. With regard to working time and travel costs, I was informed that a mission had been entrusted to the Directorate-General for Social Cohesion – DGCS – to define and implement concrete actions aimed at improving the quality of working life of home help professionals. What about it? As we know, with the ageing of the population, the demand for aid will increase considerably, even though these occupations suffer from a lack of attractiveness. However, the quality of care is closely linked to that of human delivery. The time has come to recognise the action of these professionals through a significant increase in their remuneration. In addition, consideration must be given to the professions of dependency in the context of a bill which, unfortunately, has not yet been introduced or examined. Madam Secretary of State, at what time will the premiums for living aids be paid, and under what terms? Can you specify the timing of the review of the addiction bill? What measures will be proposed to use the experience of the crisis we are going through?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u92	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u93	Thank you for drawing attention to home help and support services – SAAD. We know the difficulties in which they had to work at the beginning of the epidemic. The Ministry supported them throughout the crisis, with weekly deliveries of masks taken from government stocks, through RSAs and pharmacies. The departments were also present alongside the ARS to distribute them to professionals. Health support has been offered through the introduction of a geriatric periodicity. With regard to financial support, the orders of 25 March and 15 April 2020 provide for a guarantee of financing of SAADs, whether tariffed or not, by the department. The signing of the decree specifying the terms of this guarantee, necessary to go through the crisis, is imminent. With regard to the payment of an exceptional premium for SAAD professionals, particularly mobilized during the crisis, exchanges continue with the departments, respecting the competences of each, to ensure their financing. We are still at the heart of the crisis; As with all crises, it highlights and amplifies both the strengths and the difficulties. The advantages are obvious: home care workers are among the 800,000 professionals of the older age who have been heavily mobilized. As for the structural difficulties in the sector, it is crucial to address them: I am thinking of the recurrent economic difficulties of professionals, who do not allow them to cope with the hard blows, but also the problems of coordination between accompaniment and care, the lack of recognition of staff and the persistence of trades. Technical work is under way on the implementation of concrete measures to upgrade these professions, based in particular on the proposals of Myriam El Khomri's report on the subject. In addition to the central issue of wage developments, which will be the subject of specific exchanges with all the players in the sector, the other provisions relate to the development of skills, the reduction of occupational risks and the increase of entry into training. Everything related to the attractiveness of older occupations will be discussed very quickly with all the partners involved in the sector with a view to achieving a shared and integrated plan in the broader reflection on the reform of older age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u94	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u95	Thank you for this perspective. However, it is urgent to take action to the extent that home helpers face difficulties: part-time employment, very low wages, transport time which is not always paid or which is paid only in part... The subject is all the more important because, I insist, the population is ageing. To improve the care of our seniors, home support must be strengthened and housing must be diversified outside of retirement homes. It is a subject of society that seems to me to be of major importance, hence the question that I have allowed myself to ask you. We will, of course, be attentive to your addiction bill, in my view, it is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u96	Mr José Evrard has the floor to put his question, No. 1052, on the organisation of the health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u97	My question concerns the failure of our health care system and its necessary reorganization. The tragedy we are experiencing is less about the virus than about the management of the epidemic by those responsible for it: the State, the Ministry of Health and the RHAs – on which the State and the ministry have discharged themselves. After three quinquennats of existence, the RSAs have shown, in addition to their exorbitant cost and their perfect inutility in a context of pandemic, their nuisance in terms of the health protection of our compatriots. ARS is a bureaucracy that has reduced, discouraged and paralyzed the function of care. For reasons of economy and others that are still unknown, doctors and caregivers have found themselves without the necessary material means to combat coronavirus and have paid a heavy toll on the disease. The third-globalisation of the world's best health care system, which the European Union wants, has been in operation for a long time and has not been able to remain hidden. Hospitals, beds, resuscitation equipment, medicines, blouses, masks, gloves, tests: everything was missing. And as everything was missing, the French were told that they did not need it. In these circumstances, what else remained of the executive, after the harsh test of the yellow vests and the long strike of hospital emergencies, than confinement, that is, the permanent imprisonment of a whole people? An unprecedented governance is in place, an administrative dictatorship. In Parliament, in the impossibility of meeting, some people voted for exceptional provisions, orders of an authoritarian nature. The ban on free movement and fines of 135 euros for those who violate it will come first. To top it all, with the abandonment of the municipal electoral process, the mayors have disappeared; It is therefore in the appearance of a regular functioning of democracy and without the courage to assume it that the executive granted itself all the powers from 16 March. This soft coup d'état is mainly organized to deal with the rising economic and financial crisis masked by the epidemic – really fought, it, by a healthcare staff applauded every night by the French confined. In its obligation to appear mobilized, the power presents every evening the daily hecatombe, accompanied by incomplete and truncated information, not to say false, with the endorsement of scientists and doctors whom the executive himself chooses and whose mission is to caricature the only doctor who presents results, Professor Didier Raoult. The episode of the protective masks, declared useless before being made mandatory, as the systematic demolition of Professor Raoult's method will remain the markers of the quinquennium. A parliamentary commission of inquiry and judicial judges will study the troubling facts of the period of the pandemic: chloroquine removed from over-the-counter sale; masks insufficient or destroyed, or ordered without ever arriving; the famous European clinical trial still waiting for results; private hospitals with few requests; and, ultimately, the use of euthanizing products. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] The prospect of a devastating economic and financial crisis is not alien to the situation. Antisocial measures are coming, we must prepare the opinion. However, the reorganization of the Ministry of Health is essential. In the midst of a pandemic, the ARS Grand Est is still working to remove beds! The removal of this bureaucracy will benefit caregivers, whether in terms of means or remuneration. France is not a federal state, it does not need agencies, but a transparent and efficient ministry at all times, controlled by Parliament, in connection with hospitals run democratically and run by a doctor. Madam Secretary of State, it is in the storm that we judge a captain!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u98	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u99	The question you are asking, Mr Evrard, does not call for a precise answer from the Government. You think that it is in the storm that a captain is judged; I believe, for my part, that even though we are currently living only a lull, we can already pay tribute to the work of the French, health workers, state agents and elected officials: they have held! We can only be proud of that. Regional health agencies have played an indispensable role. Without their action, the epidemic could have spread throughout the country as early as February. Let us remember, in particular, the case of Contamines-Montjoie. Your question gives me the opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the ARS, but also to the work of the agents of health insurance and social security, who have mobilized, and continue to do so, in all the territories to find solutions to the difficulties – sometimes particularly thorny. Mr President, democratic control has never ceased. Both the National Assembly and the Senate sat throughout the period. I also thank the services of the two assemblies for allowing the continuity of parliamentary democracy during the health crisis. Finally, with regard to the management of the crisis itself, several parliamentary groups have announced the establishment of a committee of inquiry. More than this oral question-and-answer session without debate, it will provide an appropriate framework for denouncing, as you do, the way the Government has dealt with the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u100	Mr José Evrard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u101	I will believe the Government when its actions are corroborated by specific facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u102	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to speak on his question No. 1053 on resuscitation bed capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u103	My question is about the lessons to be learned from the health debacle we have unfortunately experienced in France, with a record number of victims. I would point out that with Spain and Italy, France is one of the countries that has experienced the greatest number of victims, while a country like Poland has deplored 20 times less per capita, not to mention the countries of South-East Asia, Israel or Russia. Obviously, there have been blissful flaws. What lessons can we learn today, particularly from resuscitation services? When, during the press conference on deconfinement, I heard the Prime Minister explain to us that it is now necessary to return to 5000 beds of resuscitation, that is to say to their number before the crisis, I confess that I was amazed. To say that the hospital held, it is not true: if it held, it is thanks to the exceptional dedication of caregivers, doctors, caregivers, nurses, anesthetists, paramedics, who performed miracles. But national representation and the country would be wrong to believe that the hospital held, as the Government repeats. The truth is, if he held it, it was because he refused to treat a large number of elderly people in the hospital. What the Government has been hiding for weeks appears today thanks to courageous testimony. The German press recalled that, as early as March, in Alsace, patients over 75 years of age were refused admission to hospital, which the head of emergency in Mulhouse himself testified. Similarly, Le Canard enchainé referred to a circular from the Ministry of Health stating that age should be taken into account in the criteria for admission to hospital. Finally, the Marianne newspaper published yesterday a highly documented investigation presenting testimonies on the situation of EHPADs and demonstrating that people over 70 years of age were refused for several weeks in hospitals in Île-de-France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté and the Grand Est. Our country has the highest rate of compulsory levies from the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development –, high health spending, a structured hospital, health personnel with incredible dedication, and yet, on the simple criterion of age, we are able to let our fellow citizens die! We must question ourselves, look for the culprits and those responsible and, above all, take the necessary steps to ensure that this does not happen again. Madam Secretary of State, what are the real intentions of the Government? Is he really considering, as the Prime Minister said, returning to just 5000 resuscitation beds? We know today, however, that if there were far fewer deaths in Switzerland, Germany – four to five times fewer deaths in Germany than in France –, South Korea and Japan, it is because these countries have kept, in sufficient numbers, local hospitals and beds for resuscitation and acute care. A very accurate 2019 OECD report shows that there are 3.1 acute care beds per 1000 inhabitants in France, compared to 6 beds in Germany, 7.1 in South Korea and 7.8 in memory, Japan. This means that the proper dimensioning of resuscitation services is one of the major criteria for determining a country's ability to cope with the health crisis – in addition to, of course, the management of masks and tests, which has been the subject of scandalous crackdowns, on which you will have to be held accountable. But these resuscitation services, under the influence of decisions of previous governments, but also of yours, and under the effect of the bureaucratic management of the ARS – recalled by our Evrard College and unanimously recognized – have been drastically reduced over time, when hospitals have simply not been closed. As a result, 10,000 deaths in EHPADs, while some residents – of course, not the oldest – could have been revived: residents between the ages of 70 and 75 who were refused by hospitals. These people could have been saved; It is the general secretary of the professional union of private EHPADs who affirms this in the latest edition of Marianne newspaper. Will you finally become aware of the damage to your policy? Will you give up the closure plans decided by the ARS? In my department, Essonne, three hospitals are still under consideration. The stubbornness of the RSAs and the Government to shut down ever more hospitals does not fail, especially in the Greater East region. So, Madam Secretary of State, could you consider reopening hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u104	Mr Dupont-Aignan, I ask you to conclude, or the Secretary of State will only have a minute to answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u105	I myself had proposed the reopening of the Val-de-Grâce hospital in order to welcome patients during the crisis. I will end with this question: can the number of resuscitation beds remain at 5000 or will it rise to 10,000 to match Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u106	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u107	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u108	The subject you are dealing with is very broad and the framework for oral questions without debate is not appropriate to answer it, whereas a parliamentary committee of inquiry should soon be set up. Allow me, however, to return to one of the points you have raised. Indeed, I cannot let you say that there have been tris of patients in the EHPADs. Since the beginning of the crisis, residents diagnosed positive for covid-19 have been hospitalized,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u110	... in health facilities or at home. Only critical severe forms have been admitted to health facilities. The decision whether or not to maintain the sick person in EHPAD has taken into account the health status of the resident – as you yourself pointed out –, the accompanying capacity of the institution, the will of the resident and the possibility of moving it. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health worked alongside EHPAD throughout the crisis. They were not alone in the medical decision-making process. A community health penalty has been organised for the elderly and now covers almost all EHPADs. We have mobilized the maximum resources for the care of the patients by the institutions. We have also created channels of direct hospitalization for the most serious cases, for which hospitalization could be a real benefit. Finally, we have shifted the new capabilities for PCR tests – chain polymerization reaction – to EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u111	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor to put his question, No. 1033, on the teleworking of frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u112	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about the lessons to be learned from the crisis of the Covid-19 regarding telework concerning frontier workers. Tax arrangements have been found between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in order to allow the many frontier workers to work at home during the crisis without changing the tax liability. Adjustments to social security contributions have also been decided at European level to retain employees' membership of Luxembourg social security even though all their work was carried out in France. If tax considerations do not constitute the main obstacle, given the comparable rates on both sides of the border, the level of social contributions in Luxembourg, the guarantees they provide and the family benefits to which they give entitlement offer a clear advantage to the employees who are subject to them. However, the quality of social and family relations, the fluidity of means of transport in France, the preservation of the environment and even – the crisis has demonstrated – productivity calls for the continued possibility of teleworking in border areas well beyond 25% of working time. I would therefore like to know what steps the French Government has taken with the Luxembourg Government on the one hand, and with the European Union on the other, to promote the widest possible extension of telework and to meet the legitimate aspirations of tens of thousands of teleworkers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u113	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u114	Mr Belhaddad, this is the answer that the Minister of Labour asked me to convey to you. Because they are very mobile citizens of the European Union, frontier workers have been directly affected by the pandemic. The Government responded very quickly, in consultation with the border countries, to find concrete solutions to their difficulties. He also ensured that their rights were safeguarded in their country of activity, in particular that they received treatment equivalent to that of other employees, whether it was the use of partial activity or the benefit of daily allowances. With regard to telework, the possible effects of increased time spent on French territory have been neutralised. However, the current crisis calls into question the organisation of work more deeply, as you yourself have pointed out. The use of telework is based on the provisions of each national legislation. In this regard, the Labour Ordinances promulgated in 2017 made French legislation one of the most favourable for its development by making telework a real right for the employee and by considerably simplifying its implementation procedures, which allowed more than five million employees to use it during the confinement period. An operational guide has recently been published to facilitate its appropriation by employers and employees, since it is still recommended to use it in the coming weeks. The social partners will also be able to take up the subject in the near future. Given the importance of this method of work in all the countries concerned, this could be discussed at European level with a view to a more comprehensive treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u115	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u116	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for that answer. As you said, the health crisis will have consequences for the organisation of work on which we must ask ourselves. I am pleased that the Government has promoted the solution of telework during confinement, and we must now take a new step, particularly in the territories marked by strong cross-border activity. The number of frontier workers will increase by two or three times over the next few years. We must therefore anticipate this phenomenon, as certain local and regional authorities, which have invested in teleworking spaces, are doing decisively. That is why I am counting on the Government to send a strong signal to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u117	Mrs Anne-France Brunet, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, raised her question No. 1025 on the management and management of the farm at the Lycée Jules-Rieffel de Saint-Herblain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u118	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to the situation at the Jules-Rieffel high school in Saint-Herblain, in the Loire-Atlantique department. The Jules-Rieffel High School, which was merged in 2014 with the Grand Blottereau High School, is the only local public institution for agricultural vocational training. In June 2018, this institution sent a request to the delegation to the initial and continuing vocational training, as well as to the regional training and development service, to open a new vocational training in the conduct and management of the agricultural holding, polyculture support and breeding. To date, Jules-Rieffel High School has still not received a response from the ministry. However, this new sector would meet the needs of the dairy industry in the department and would allow it to continue – needs now met by a private establishment located outside the department. It would also meet the demands for skills and qualifications needed to operate farms in a changing environment marked by international competition and increased environmental and health requirements. The sector is promising, as we know: the integration rate of those who came from it is close to 80%. Young people are therefore applicants. Their integration into the labour market is our priority, and agriculture is a necessity. While the appropriations for the 143 programme have increased by almost 7 million euros in the last finance law, the seers, if I may say so, are in the green for the opening of such a sector at the Jules-Rieffel high school. I therefore ask you to consider, or rather reconsider, this request for initiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u119	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u120	Mrs Brunet, I know you are very attached to agricultural education, but, if I may say so, your statement contains a mistake: the school has indeed received an answer. Simply put, it's not the one he was hoping for since it's negative: we told him that we can't open this section. As you have pointed out, the creation of a CGEA baccalaureate is the responsibility of an academic authority, the DRAAF – the Regional Directorate of Food, Agriculture and Forestry – and therefore the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in close connection with the services of the Regional Council and the Rectorate, which is quite normal. I am very committed to social dialogue and I say every day to my colleagues that the evolution of the map of the training offered can only be achieved through consultation. Therefore the request made by the high school has been the subject of numerous exchanges, for the past two years, between my services and the staff delegates of the EPLEFPA – the local public institution of education and vocational training agricultural – Nantes Atlantic land. My ministry received them several times: on June 20, 2018, at a hearing about the evolution of the training provided by the institution; on 30 January 2019, at a meeting; On 27 March 2019, they met with the Director General of Education and Research; Finally, on July 4, 2019, they met with the Secretary General, as part of the preparation for the 2019-2020 school year. In order to establish the priorities for the opening of training courses, the DRAAF of the Pays de la Loire based itself on a fine analysis of the needs of the territory, after which it did not accept the request of the Lycée Jules-Rieffel. To be completely transparent, I would remind you that the recruitment of pupils in the polyculture-breeding sector in the Loire-Atlantique has been losing almost regular speed since then. In four years, forty fewer students have chosen her, one more than the equivalent of a class. The provision of initial training is insufficient, according to the study carried out by the DRAAF and by our services, and a redeployment of resources is not envisaged by the academic authority. I have been working for 18 months to reverse the downward trend in numbers. I say this since I took office, agricultural education must become a first choice again rather than a default choice. That's why I launched the "Aventure of the Living" campaign, which is why we acted on various formations. At the start of 2019-2020, for the first time in ten years, the decline in numbers stopped and about 2000 additional high school students were recruited. We still have to work to make agricultural technical courses in high school a first choice; Perhaps we can, on this condition, consider the opening of channels that you want. At present, however, the number of staff in your territory does not permit this. Finally, I thank you for observing that we have re-aligned the budget for agricultural training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u121	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u122	I hear your analysis, minister. I make it clear that there are no public agricultural establishments in the department,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u123	I'm sure it's all right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u124	...only a private establishment located outside the departmental boundaries. Maybe that explains the situation you're talking about. Thank you in advance for following the file; Maybe we'll have a chance to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u125	I am, be fearless.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u126	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor to raise her question, No. 1040, concerning untreated areas in the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u127	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask you about the new regulatory framework resulting from the Decree of 27 December 2019 on measures to protect people when using plant protection products near residential areas. The new regulations raise serious concerns in the agricultural world, especially among farmers in my constituency, already weakened by successive droughts in 2018 and 2019, sectoral crises and now by the health crisis. In the light of the new measures, representatives of the agricultural sector drafted a good-neighbourly charter with local elected officials and residents in order to ensure their safety while continuing to carry out their activities. Since the use of plant protection products was already well regulated, was it necessary to tighten the rules? And why again choose a one-way scheme, without compensation for the loss of profits for farmers or reciprocity of measures to protect housing areas? In the Ardennes, the area concerned by the application of the new measures covers 4000 hectares, i.e. 3% of the total land ploughable in the department, but concentrated on a few farms: so many areas where productivity will be affected and where farmers will have new technical problems to combat adventitious plants. Cells designed to measure and combat "gribashing" in departments are a good thing! Let's stop making farmers responsible for everything. The new obligations imposed on them inevitably place higher production costs on them. Who will pay these extra costs? How do you intend to clarify your intentions, without farmers once again being the victims of your policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u128	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u129	Mrs Poletti, let us be clear and precise: it was not the Government that made the decision you are talking about, but the Council of State that imposed it on her.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u130	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u131	This is important: when the highest administrative court pronounces itself, the Government can only carry out itself. Farmers must all understand that the Government did not want to hold on to them even more but acted at the request of the Council of State. The regulations published at the end of 2019 are based on the work of ANSES, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work. It is in this context that the decree – made after three months of consultation and 55,000 contributions on the Internet, I would remind you – establishes the non-treatment zones as from 1 January 2020. We have done everything possible to ensure that they are created in full clarity and transparency, and in consultation with all professional agricultural organisations. The minimum distances from dwellings, respectively 10 and 5 metres for high and low crops, can be reduced to 5 and 3 metres depending on the equipment used – in particular anti-driving nozzles – and the publication of a charter of residents. In addition, at the Agriculture Fair, the President of the Republic asked us very clearly to find financial compensation for farmers. We started working there but the crisis of the Covid-19 forced us to stop everything. In addition, as a result of the ban on public gatherings, it has prevented the public consultations, thus the discussion and implementation of the charters of residents, scheduled this spring; The courts, which have been referred to the courts by NGOs, associations and mayors, have just given the State the right to do so. That is why we had to make arrangements to resume the discussion in early summer. Don't worry: we have no intention of putting a ball at the feet of farmers. I would point out that the distances do not concern biocontrol products and that my ministry has already mobilised a €30 million envelope to help farmers acquire the most efficient application equipment. We will soon be able to discuss all this quietly. For grace, let us not add – I am not talking about you – to the pressure and excitement of the environment. We have not stopped everything, contrary to what some people claim, and we do not want, I repeat, to put balls at the feet of farmers. There is no doubt about the end of dependence on plant health products: it is included in the EGALIM law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – and we will not come back to that. However, let us act intelligently and in concert.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u132	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u133	As you have understood, my question was not about questioning anyone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u134	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u135	...because we must collectively work to reduce the use of plant protection products. It was only about financial compensation for farmers, and I note with satisfaction your answer on this point: the process is underway, although unfortunately slowed down by the coronavirus. I will observe with great attention the continuation of the events.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u136	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Breton, to put his question, No. 1041, on the consequences of the health crisis on the Bresse poultry sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u137	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I want to warn you about the unprecedented economic consequences of the health crisis on most of our agricultural products, particularly in the Ain region. They are in addition to the difficulties experienced by the agricultural world for years. Unfortunately, it is all the sectors that now need support measures in order to preserve their activities and ensure their sustainability. Exchanges have already taken place at local level with State and local authorities to identify the needs of the hard-hit sectors. We need to go further and act. From this perspective, I would like to point out to you the specificity of the "Bresse poultry" sector, the only poultry sector in the world to benefit from an AOC/AOP – controlled/protected label of origin. The breeding conditions of these poultry favour their development and give them the tasty, refined and unique taste that is part of the richness of French gastronomy. We must preserve this traditional know-how, but also be aware of the significant economic weight of the sector for our territories of Ain, Saône-et-Loire and Jura. Beyond poultry farms, are also concerned the selection centres, hatcheries, slaughterers-shippers, sellers, restaurateurs and of course consumers. At the beginning of the confinement, however, representatives of the CIVB – the Bresse Interprofessional Poultry Committee – alerted the farmers to the impossibility of marketing their poultry due to the closure of restaurants and the cessation of catering activities. At the beginning of the crisis, as many as 25,000 chickens were in the finishing phase. The farmers then made great financial efforts to dispose of these poultry; Thus, the selling price to slaughter and marketing professionals was divided by two on average. Now, the slaughterhouses take over from the breeders by reducing their prices. Without being able to be marketed, many poultry must be frozen – it is estimated that about 61000 will have been frozen by 31 August – while this logic has its limits. The losses will therefore be high for all professionals in the Bresse poultry sector. It is therefore essential to take measures to prepare, in consultation with the profession, a plan to rescue the entire sector, to help it pass the course of the crisis and to accompany it during the recovery phase that we all hope, so that this flagship product of our agriculture and gastronomy continues to radiate and to make the pride of Bresse and the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u138	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u139	As we approach midday, Mr. Breton, you will hear about the "Bresse Poultry" agricultural sector, giving us all the desire to taste this product, as it is of excellence. You are very lucky to live in the department of Ain, surrounded by all these farms. You started by talking about all the agricultural sectors, all heavily affected by the crisis, especially those of excellence. When one is mentioned in particular, all Members would like us to talk about their own. I will only answer your question, but I would like to say that I have spoken with representatives of almost all of them via video conferencing. There will be no specific sector-by-sector plan, that would make no sense. A comprehensive plan has been put in place by the Government, and both agricultural enterprises and farms can benefit from the horizontal measures it contains, whether it is the solidarity fund or loans – you know these schemes by heart. However, a number of specific features must be taken into account. As you said very well, farming as a whole, including Bresse's poultry, was initially unable to sell its products. It must be understood – I speak to the Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts – that there are those, like the restaurateurs, whose activity was suspended by decree because of the state of emergency health and those who were also forced to stop accordingly and were not able to dispose of their production. But Bresse's poultry, of high quality, is distributed in restaurants, in markets or in short circuits. That is why we reacted immediately. I have asked INAO – the National Institute of Origin and Quality – to study the situation closely and we have introduced a rapid procedure to allow products with a sign of quality to temporarily adapt the criteria of their specifications. The aim is for them to continue to benefit from these signs and to preserve what makes these products typical, while changing production conditions in this period of crisis. Bresse's poultry benefited from this scheme, like cheeses under PDO and all other productions under sign of quality. And we have worked for regional coherence, because Bresse's poultry is certainly flowing from a distance but is also widely distributed at local level. We have therefore reopened the markets and I have intervened with the players in the large distribution sector. We will continue to monitor the evolution of this crisis and to reflect on ways to help this sector, which is in great need of it, to restart, in particular through promotion. As you know, things don't happen in a day and the situation needs to be objected to. But rest assured that the Government has in mind the dramatic situation of Bresse poultry farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u140	Mrs Laure de La Raudière spoke about her question, No. 1050, concerning the financing of the remuneration of accompanying students with disabilities during canteen time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u141	We will remain on the topic of lunch, since my question, which is addressed to the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, relates to the financing of the remuneration of accompanying students with disabilities – the AESH – during the Meridian break. In 2019 the construction of the new public service of the inclusive school was launched, which is to be completed in 2022, and it is true that improvements have been made to make the school more accessible to children with disabilities. The Secretary of State came to see this with the Minister of National Education and Youth at the last school year in my constituency in Thiron-Gardais. But many obstacles persist, experienced as a double penalty by children and their parents. The question of financing the remuneration of the AESH over the canteen time is a sea snake that perfectly illustrates the difficulties faced by families. Two jurisprudences of the Council of State, dating back to 2001, set out the principle of taking care of the state of the AESH on the time of the Meridian break, provided that the departmental house of the disabled – CDMH – has prescribed them. However, national education almost systematically refuses to finance the support of children during the time of the canteen, arguing that this is not school time and sending parents back to the local authorities. In turn, many of the latter feel that it is not their responsibility to provide such funding, particularly in view of existing case law. The question also arises whether the child is enrolled in a private school. It must be understood that access to the canteen for disabled children is not a luxury, but often a necessity for families, especially when both parents work. It is time to clarify the situation. When will the State issue a decree or circular containing the terms of the case law to ensure that the national education services cover the cost of the hours of AESH prescribed by the CDMH on canteen time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u142	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u143	Please, Madame de La Raudière, excuse Sophie Cluzel, who asked me to answer your question. Access to the canteen for students with disabilities is neither an option nor a "luxury" to resume your term, but a right that is binding on the municipality or institution offering this service. Article L. 131-13 of the Education Code states: "Registration in the canteen of primary schools, where this service exists, is a right for all children in school. No discrimination may be established according to their situation or that of their families. In general, the mayor must, under the principle of accessibility, set out in particular in the Act of 11 February 2005, promote equal access to institutions receiving from the public, including schools and canteens, by ensuring adequate reception for the pupils concerned. Without justifying a refusal, the difficulties inherent in a student's access to the public service of school catering must be able to find appropriate answers, in conjunction with all the actors contributing to the reception and accompaniment of that student. The AESH, responsible for individualised or mutualised human assistance, may accompany students with disabilities to the canteen, provided that such support is notified by a decision of the CDAPH – Committee on the Rights to Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities. While this provision avoids a break in the attendance of the student at the canteen, the question of responsibility for financing has never been clearly established in the legislation. It is a source of litigation, which must be brought out in the interests of all, be it students, parents, mayors or academic authorities. You referred to a case law of the Council of State of 2001 concerning the intervention of education assistants on canteen time. It turns out that the Conseil d'État is again called upon to decide on this issue relating to the AESH, following decisions of the Administrative Courts of Appeal of Nantes of 15 May and 25 June 2018, and Bordeaux of 5 November 2019, which again refer the responsibility for financing to the academic authorities. The forthcoming decision of the Council of State will be instructive: it will allow us to clarify the responsibility for funding. Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel want to build on this decision to move forward and ensure that the reception of children in canteens is assured and that the responsibility for funding is clearly established in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u144	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u145	We therefore await a third decision by the Council of State; This means that the State does not take into account the previous two. I understand that he appealed the decisions of the administrative courts; However, I find it incredible that it does not apply the previous decisions of the Council of State. Do you know the exact date of his next judgment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u146	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to put his question, No. 1036, on the transferability of life insurance contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u147	My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, concerns the savings invested by our fellow citizens in life insurance. This investment confers tax advantages, in particular with regard to the transfer of assets, if the saver has entered into the contract before the age of 70. However, the question of contract portability arises. For the time being, someone wishing to transfer their contract must first buy it back before reinvesting it in a new one; This obviously poses a problem for savers over 70 years of age, who thus lose all the tax advantages associated with contracts signed before that age. Given the state of financial markets and our economy, could these savers not be allowed to transfer their contracts without prior redemption, provided that they place their savings only in units of account, excluding what is called "the funds in euros"? This would be a twofold advantage: on the one hand, to give them a little more freedom in their heritage management; on the other hand, to encourage investment in the real economy, which, after the crisis of the covid-19, needs financing and investors. Would the Government therefore be prepared to change the rules in force in that area, which would help to reinject fresh money into our real economy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u148	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u149	Your question, Mr. Hetzel, makes it possible to clarify the Government's position on the various options that you have mentioned and to recall the rules in force for savers who wish to transfer their life insurance contract. There are two possibilities. The first is to buy back his contract and then reinvest the sums recovered in a new one. This leads to the loss of tax advantages related to the priority of the contract, justified in particular by the desire to encourage the long holding of savings, life insurance being a liquid product the amount of which can be withdrawn at any time. Allowing a transferability with a change in insurer would lead to a disproportionate increase in the liquidity of contracts, which in our view would lead insurers to further limit their investment in shares. This measure would therefore run counter to the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – of 22 May 2019, the aim of which is, on the contrary, to develop investment in shares. It would also run counter to work at European level to make Solvency II less detrimental to investment in long-term equities. Finally, at the prudential level, in the event of a rise in rates, transferability would pose a dangerous threat to the insurers' balance sheet, which would be exposed to potentially high withdrawals if their assets were to lose value. A transferability measure to change insurers, because it would pose a risk to the security of savings, is therefore not envisaged at this stage. But there is a second possibility of transferring his contract, which is to transform it into a new contract with the same insurer. Article 125-0 A of the General Tax Code, simplified by the PACTE law, allows the saver, by amending to the contract or underwriting of a new contract with the same insurer, to transform his contract while maintaining his fiscal anteriority. Thus, the new contract resulting from a transformation is deemed to have been entered into on the date of the first payment made on the voucher or the original contract, with all the consequences attached to that priority, including for the application of Articles 757 B and 990 I of the General Tax Code relating to the tax treatment applicable in the event of death.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u150	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u151	You recalled the law in force and the policy pursued by the Government, while I asked you whether you were prepared to change the rules on life insurance. So I take it from your answer that I don't. You tell us that portability carries the risk of getting even fewer investments for the real economy. I stress the argument that I have developed: the idea is not simply to facilitate the transfer; It is to be authorised if we invest no longer in euro funds but in units of account. The problem you mention would be solved in this way. So you're not answering my question. I would like to know whether the Government could not consider such a change in the rules: portability would be possible, but provided that it converts into units of account rather than into funds in euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u153	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to put her question, No. 1044, on measures to promote donations in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u154	An increase of 693%: this is the change in the amount of donations between the first half of April 2020 and that of 2019. You'll tell me they're about research or hospitals. However, iRaiser's study on fundraising commissioned by France generosity shows that all areas have benefited from the momentum. This unexpected breath of oxygen must not make us forget the successive declines in donations. During the crisis, however, the French who could have been generous, very generous. Here I want to pay tribute to our philanthropic country: from the virtual quest for a church to the donations for the overcrowded animal shelter, to support an association that helps women in distress or the poorest – who would not survive without food aid – the entire charitable sector has benefited from this movement. Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, during the difficult times that we have been through, we have seen that philanthropic and relief actions have been carried out without any ulterior thought of fiscal optimisation. A large amusement park has thus made food donations to the poorest, a few hours after the containment decision, so that the stored food is not lost. Similarly, large French groups donated masks at a time when tension was at its peak and we humbly acknowledged that we were unable to meet immediate needs. The supply of alcohol has enabled the production of gel to be revived at full speed. And I do not mention the small donations of masks, charlottes or superblouses that car dealers, agri-food companies and small and medium-sized businesses made directly to the ARS or Liberal nurses. We therefore find that the lever of donation is both powerful and agile, while public order procedures are not adequate in a crisis situation. Will this show of strength change the point of view of the administration, which still considers donations too much as a tax niche? Are you considering encouraging donations to accompany the upcoming recovery plan, and by what means? Let me offer you a book, which traces the history of donations and bequests at the Institut Pasteur. Our hope lies in a vaccine and treatment. The Institut Pasteur, which is the pride of France, was founded thanks to donations and bequests, and continues to function in large part in this way. Philanthropy is a great tool; It is so hopeful that we must support it. I look forward to hearing your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u155	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u156	Mrs El Haïry, I agree with you on the importance of donations, particularly in the current period, when our country is being very severely tested. You have cited many examples, all remarkable, and we could add them. I am thinking of companies that have agreed to participate, anonymously and without tax consideration, in the solidarity fund in favour of the TPEs of less than ten employees. This is to be welcomed, while recalling that the Government has been active in supporting donations, both from businesses and individuals. You have rightly noted this in the report on French philanthropy that you submitted to the Prime Minister last January: the French system of patronage is one of the most generous in the world, and several measures taken during the quinquennium, some in response to the current crisis, have consolidated it. In the case of individuals, payments made to works or bodies of general interest or recognized as being of public interest shall be entitled to a reduction in income tax equal to 66 % of their amount, up to a limit of 20 % of taxable income. Article 200 of the General Tax Code also provides for a further reduction at the rate of 75 per cent for donations of individuals to organizations providing free meals or care for the poor, or promoting their access to housing; Whereas these donations were previously subject to a ceiling of 552 euros, the amending finance law of 25 April 2020, adopted on the basis of the crisis, has increased this ceiling to 1000 euros. In the case of undertakings, the tax reduction for sponsorship provided for in Article 238a of the General Tax Code provides a tax advantage for payments to certain bodies of general interest: a reduction of 60 % of their amount within the limit of EUR 10000, or 5 % of turnover and carry-forward to the following financial years; for payments exceeding EUR 2 million, the advantage is 40%. In order to encourage the development of sponsorship of small businesses, which reach the 5 % limit of turnover faster than others, Article 134 of the Finance Law for 2020 has increased the ceiling for payments from 10000 to 20,000 euros – you have contributed a great deal. The recovery plan, which you mentioned, is in preparation: the measures it will contain are under consideration; We must work to make it cross-cutting and effective. Together with Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, we will introduce a draft amending finance bill in the coming weeks or months, to adopt emergency measures and to anticipate and accompany sectoral plans, with the objective of a cross-cutting stimulus plan to be implemented when the situation is fully stabilized. From this perspective, it will be interesting to discuss how to encourage companies and individuals to show generosity – perhaps, if feasible, by extending the recent measures I have mentioned. We will be extremely attentive to your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u157	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u158	French philanthropy is territorial: it is practiced nearby. In my view, it is enough to change the eyes of the administration, which sometimes considers it too much as a desire for optimisation; She must be a little more confident.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u159	Mr Hervé Saulignac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1049, concerning the victims of the Teil.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u160	My question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, who, almost six months ago to the day, had visited Teil, a commune that had been the victim of the most important earthquake in metropolitan France in forty years. As life regained its rights, confinement added a test to the test. Work has fallen considerably behind schedule, 700 families have so far been delocalized, a quarter of the homes affected have not been evaluated and 80 per cent of the work has not even begun. Every day, we deplore the slowness – and I am tempted to use the word – of the unfortunate cracks in the expert procedures, because of the number of speakers, on the one hand, and the lack of control on the part of the insurers, on the other. Some experts admit the decisive nature of the earthquake in the occurrence of damage, while others refuse to do so; There are proposals for highly variable geometry repairs from one expert or from one insurer to another. From now on, fatigue and sometimes exasperation take precedence over patience; I have often had the opportunity to cross Teillois, and unfortunately I can testify to that. These delays will worsen the difficulties of everyday life: the costs of rehousing, for the few people who benefit from it, will soon no longer be covered by insurance, and many victims risk being deprived of the deferred compensation corresponding to the value of nine. For weeks, the Collective for the victims of the earthquake of 11-11-2019, with the support of the town hall and the services of the prefecture of the Ardèche, is trying to obtain treatment improvements from the insurers, but the discussions with the Fédération française de l'assurance do not end. Also, I urge your support to put pressure on insurers to stop lightness, unfair and incomprehensible treatment. I call on the Government to intervene as firmly as possible in order to ensure that the delays caused by insurance give rise to the payment of rents. Above all, I ask you to hear the Teillois, who need to quickly look at a better future and to know that the Government does not forget them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u162	Mr Saulignac, the Teil earthquake, which occurred on 11 November 2019, caused many damage in the Rhône valley, which you know well, especially in the department of Ardèche, for which we have a common attachment. Once again, the system of compensation for natural disasters has proved its worth, thanks to a rapid response: forty communes have been recognized in a state of natural disaster and more than 13,000 claims have been recorded in this framework by the insurers. The latest estimates, dating back to February, show damages in excess of EUR 170 million, about half of which will be covered by the Central Reinsurance Fund. We are fully aware of the difficulties faced by insured persons in obtaining compensation, aggravated by the crisis of the last few weeks, but due to the combination of several complication factors. First, since the damage often affects the structure of the buildings, the expertise to be carried out is numerous, which has created a bottleneck for the technical offices, especially since confinement has prevented many movements and visits. Second, in the town of Teil, buildings are often interlocked; Therefore, before repairing a damaged building or demolishing it for reconstruction, consideration must be given to the solutions envisaged for damaged terraced properties, which helps to slow down operations and leads to an increase in trade between insurance companies, to the point that they may seem to be incessant. As you have indicated, the prefecture runs a working group on insurance, in which a correspondent from the Fédération française de l'assurance takes part. The State has deployed specific means, including the appointment of a deputy prefect, accompanied by State officials, to ensure the best possible follow-up of the work. We have reported the situation to the Fédération française de l'assurance: I am responding positively to your request to question, encourage and accompany the insurers so that they take into account the difficulties of the Teillois. In addition, we hope that the decoupling will speed up the course of events and have asked insurers to actively re-launch the experts in order to speed up the start-up of the work. Finally, you refer to the time limit for reconstruction, which is contractually limited to two years. As the earthquake did not take place until last November, I do not believe that the situation requires, at this stage, to prolong it. I would point out, however, that if new difficulties emerged, the question would arise, as was done for some of the victims of Hurricane Irma. Again, we will work with the Insurance Federation. It is clear that delays caused by insurers or confinement should not in any way prejudice Teil's policyholders. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Government is present alongside the Teillois, as you know. He cleared up resources right after the disaster and created the work cell I was referring to. In addition, aware of the particularly serious consequences, we have taken tax measures, which you questioned us about a few months ago. Local owners and tenants who have been the subject of a peril order prohibiting access or occupation have benefited from a reduction in their property tax on built properties as well as from the housing tax, for the 2019 fiscal year; In the municipality of Teil, more than 1300 premises were affected by this provision. Similarly, donors were able to apply for a reduction in the property tax on built properties, in the event of an involuntary vacancy of more than three months of their rental housing. We have adopted fairly similar measures for businesses, with the possibility of a reduction in business property taxes, particularly for the remaining months in the event of a total cessation of business. In addition, corporate tax instalments for the 2019 fiscal year have been carried forward and income tax instalments have been adjusted. We will remain with the Teillois and will continue to respond to the demands of local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u163	The next item is the question by Mr Xavier Roseren, No. 1034, concerning the décolleting industry in the Arve Valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u164	I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, about the support, in the medium term, of industrial enterprises in the Arve Valley, in particular those involved in décolletage. As the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, mentioned this morning in the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, this sector produces specific components, of small diameter, intended to be assembled in products belonging to a wide variety of fields, such as watchmaking, automobiles, aeronautics and the medical field. It is therefore a strategic ecosystem, involved in a high-tech, highly innovative and massively exportable sector; It consists mainly of SMEs and TPEs, employing human capital with skills that can lead to real competitive differentiation. In 2017, France had more than 600 take-off companies, which generated 2.4 billion euros in turnover; 437 of them are located in the Arve Valley, the historic cradle of activity, which Mr Le Maire knows well. The latter alone generate €1.6 billion and account for more than 70% of the sector's jobs. However, already largely weakened by the transformation of the automotive sector, it is seriously affected by a sharp fall in activity linked to the health crisis. Despite extensive use of emergency measures, the Committee remains concerned about its ability to achieve a resumption of activity in the short to medium term. The fifth report of the Observatoire de la santé des entreprises du pôle de compétition Mont-Blanc industries, published on 8 May, stated that 87% of companies still in business use partial unemployment and 44% use cash borrowing. The sector is mobilizing and has called for an extension of these measures. What specific support is planned, in the short term, for the players in the sector, subject to strong international competition? Does the State provide for temporary equity participation in the capital of ETIs and SMEs in this strategic sector? Prior to the crisis of the covid-19, the Government was planning to present a plan to revive the automobile-related industry in Haute-Savoie. Is this support and transition fund called into question or modified?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u165	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u166	As you pointed out, Mr Roseren, the Arve Valley, concentrates 800 industrial enterprises, mainly SMEs and family businesses, a very large part of which are specialised in the fields of cleavage and precision mechanics. About 55 % of the turnover of the cleavage industry is linked to the automotive sector, largely to thermal vehicles, including diesel; Then, with more or less equal shares, aeronautics, capital goods, medical, sports and leisure. This industry has been heavily affected by the 2008-2009 crisis, and you are particularly well placed to know it. The Arve Valley had been able to rebound, but the decline in the diesel market from 2015 highlighted the structural problems of the sector: high dependence on thermal vehicles; relative old age of part of the production system; diversification research is still too modest. This is why the need for an accompanying plan for the conversion of the valley has been mentioned on several occasions. The crisis of the covid -19 hit very strongly the actors of the Arve valley: the companies are slowing down, the uncertainties are great, and a very large part of the companies have called on the partial activity scheme as well as the carry-over of social, tax and banking charges. Most anticipate a likely decline in their annual turnover from 20 to 40 %. While the current crisis is further aggravating the situation for the Arve Valley, it must not overlook medium- and long-term considerations. That is why, in addition to a plan to relaunch the automotive sector, we are continuing to draw up a specific action plan to support this valley, in relation to all local actors. The aim is to propose concrete measures to be taken quickly, which will enable the end of the crisis to tackle the structural problems of the Arve Valley. This plan should support the strategic repositioning of actors, while identifying opportunities for diversification. To respond to the current crisis, which affects this industry more severely than other sectors of our economy, the provisions of the two amending finance bills that you passed continue to apply. The Minister of Labour indicated that the exit from partial unemployment would be gradual, depending on the level of activity and the difficulties encountered. We have also put in place various arrangements: the Solidarity Fund; a fund enabling the State to take stakes in the most strategic enterprises where necessary; the State-guaranteed loan programme allowing all companies with cash-flow difficulties to be accompanied by the State, in order to access bank financing – already more than €70 billion of loans have been granted. Each of these tools is obviously mobilised and mobilised by the actors of the Arve Valley, while waiting for the car recovery plan announced by Bruno Le Maire and the specific plan for the Arve Valley to be ready – this should be the case quickly. The local elected representatives, of whom you are one of the top representatives, will obviously be involved in defining this plan, and we will be attentive to your proposals, because they are based on your experience on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u167	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No. 1043, on the diversification of the Toulouse economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u168	Minister of Economy and Finance, the aeronautics and space industry is the driving force behind the economy of the Occitanie region, particularly in the Haute-Garonne department and in Toulouse's metropolis. Occitanie is indeed the largest aeronautics region in Europe, with the headquarters of Airbus and ATR Aircraft in Toulouse, but also several thousand companies and tens of thousands of direct jobs that bring life and dynamism to the territory. The forces of this industry, before the covid-19 pandemic, namely the proximity of the contractors and subcontractors and their extraordinary density, reveal, in the current context, the region's dependence on a mono-industry. The interdependence of the aerospace sector and the air sector, which is currently at a standstill, leads us to a phenomenal air hole and thus to an economic, social and spatial disaster. It is imperative to take advantage of the opportunity offered by this crisis, which could last several years, to diversify the territory's economy in depth. This economic transition would address the challenge of industrial sovereignty that the pandemic has highlighted so much. The intelligence and skills of aerospace professionals are invaluable resources that could be valued in other strategic sectors, both for France and for the European Union. Toulouse's metropolis, for example, has all the assets to develop a European competitiveness center around transport and mobility of the future. As we know, this mobility must be more energy-efficient, more sustainable, smarter and more autonomous. In Toulouse and its surroundings, several companies are already trying to meet these challenges: EasyMile, whose autonomous electric shuttles are already crisscrossing roads around the world; Hyperloop TT, whose supersonic capsules may revolutionize movement; Continental Automotive, which works on software that will equip the next autonomous cars; Renault, which turned an Intel site into a search centre on the connected and autonomous car. Toulouse also has undeniable assets in the defence, health, life sciences and digital sectors. To make these new clusters of competitiveness flourish, we must encourage all companies, particularly those in the aerospace sector, to diversify and invest massively in research and development programmes, such as artificial intelligence and factory automation, in line with environmental objectives. Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, in order to get out of this unprecedented crisis, how do you intend to support and support our territory in its necessary economic diversification?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u169	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u170	Mr. Lagleize, you are calling the Government's attention to the impact of coronavirus on the aviation construction industry. If, at this stage, it is still difficult to measure precisely the consequences of the crisis on the crisis, we know, in view of the major decline in global air traffic, that they will be important. First of all, I would like to assure you of the full mobilization of the Government in favour of this strategic sector, which represents more than 300,000 direct and indirect jobs, and more than 1200 enterprises in all regions, particularly in the South-West, in your region, Occitanie, or in New Aquitaine. From the beginning of the crisis, we initiated close exchanges with each of these companies, major groups such as SMEs, in coordination with the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Armed Forces. A strategic sector committee was convened a few days ago at the Ministry of Economy to discuss these issues; This should be the case again in a few days, to give new perspectives and reflect on the tools that can be mobilised. As a first step, the aim is to ensure that new forms of organisation can guarantee a gradual resumption of work, in the best health conditions, by respecting the various advice sheets drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, in conjunction with the professional branches. The work carried out by the actors in the sector in coordination with the trade union organisations should be welcomed as it is extremely useful and productive. As announced by the Minister of Economy and Finance a few weeks ago, we will be working on a specific support plan for the sector, based on the work I have just mentioned, which will be presented in the coming weeks. It is still too early to tell you what support measures will be taken, but I can share our objectives with you. The first is to maintain French autonomy in the field of aeronautical construction. We are working to preserve the companies and their skills necessary for this autonomy on French territory. This, of course, concerns major groups such as Airbus, Safran, Thales or Dassault aviation, but also very many ETIs and SMEs that are breaking our territory and participating in industrial sovereignty. In a global competitive environment, we seek to protect these critical SMEs and ETIs, including possible foreign attempts to capture long-term acquired know-how. At the same time, we must continue or accelerate our efforts towards environmental transition and place air transport on a path consistent with our climate objectives. In this way, the industry must maintain its innovative capabilities to design and produce the future generation of more environmentally efficient aircraft. The French sector is at the forefront in this field; We want to go with her so she can stay with her. Finally, we must ensure that we maintain the competitiveness of our enterprises, by continuing to modernise our productive apparatus, in particular through the digital and environmental transformation of production methods. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the support of the State and the regions for the transformation of all our industrial sectors into industries of the future is not contradicted, and will not be contradicted by the sectoral plans and the recovery plan I have mentioned. You mentioned the Government's action in favour of Air France, which is, I would like to remind you, an important Airbus customer, to whom it has ordered many aircraft, including the A350; This justifies intervention on each of the links in this industry. Support for companies is also a way to support the French aviation industry; This is how we envisage it, under the conditions I have mentioned, in a context of transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u171	Mr Philippe Latomb, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1045, concerning the social responsibility of companies and organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u172	The current crisis has pointed to failures that we had more or less obscured, by negligence or ease, due to short-term accounting imperatives, for lack of retreat or vision. Moreover, it is part of a predicted environmental crisis, whose deadline seems to have to come much faster than expected: time is running out. As the Minister of Economy and Finance recently wrote in a book published by Gallimard: "We can no longer free ourselves from the rules of life. We humans live in a silent cohabitation with the animal and plant world, with the oceans, with lakes, rivers and rivers, with clouds and the sky. We domesticated the planet. We must learn to respect it. » In such a context, societal responsibility, which aims to bring the interests of individuals and organizations into harmony with the interests of the environment, is in essence in the front line. We often talk about corporate social responsibility, or CSR. It should also be preferred to this term that of social responsibility of organisations, or RSO; all structures are concerned, whether public or private, for profit or not; It would be too easy to think that the effort to be made is the sole responsibility of companies. CSR-RSO has been well defined and documented in recent years. Unfortunately, it remains too much of the goodwill of the leaders, too often used as an opportunity for communication rather than as a real strategic tool, the ISO 26000 standard, which defines it, having no certification value. This affects the limits of volunteerism. Can you tell us, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, whether the Government is considering encouraging an increase in CSR in public organizations and, if so, how? Don't you think it's important to make CSR more systematic in public order operations, as I advocate in a bill tabled at the end of last year?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u174	Mr. Latombe, the Government, like you, obviously aspires to place social and environmental responsibility at the heart of the strategy of companies and organizations. The PACTE law on business growth and transformation, adopted on 22 May, gives concrete expression to this aspiration through several fundamental measures. By enshrining the notion of social interest in corporate governance and by strengthening the consideration of the social and environmental issues inherent in their activities, which are now mandatory for all companies, we have taken a first step. In the same spirit, we have introduced the possibility for each company to acquire a raison d'être, i.e. to build or clarify the meaning of its entrepreneurial project and the action of its collective over the long term, and we have created the status of a mission-oriented enterprise, allowing companies that wish to do so to invest more than before, by fully integrating into their business model a social and environmental transition approach. We have also created a new foundation status, that of sustainability funds, which makes it possible to sustain the foundation and values of a company, including after the departure of its founder, but also the mobilization of resources for the financing of diversified actions, or even of general interest. The implementing decree for this scheme was issued on 7 May 2020. In addition, the PACTE law has made progress on key issues related to the responsibility of organisations: wage equity, gender equality and support for social and solidarity economy enterprises are all areas on which we have all progressed together. This is therefore a major milestone in the sustainable transformation effort of our organizations and companies, and we are determined to furnish all these tools. As you said, we are preparing a transversal recovery plan, which will have to accompany our economy in digital transformation as well as the ecological and environmental transition. The reflection on corporate and organizational social responsibility will have its full place in this framework. In particular, your proposed law, which you mentioned, aims to take into account the CSR criterion for public orders. However, in the current state of European law, the introduction of such a criterion is only possible when this criterion is directly related to the subject-matter of the contract, thus limiting the scope of your proposal. This debate will have to be continued, both at national and European level, in order to go further or even find ways and means to be more effective, despite the Community rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u175	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u176	My proposal for a law is not intended to make it systematic to take account of the CSR criterion for public orders, but to allow local and regional authorities to include it in the regional public order strategy. While European legislation creates a difficulty in limiting the scope of this criterion, it leaves little room for manoeuvre by allowing societal criteria for public orders to be taken into account. The bill that I introduced is based on this possibility. A community such as Nantes Métropole, whose call for tenders was the subject of the famous decision of the Conseil d'État of 25 May 2018, is very clearly at the forefront. Most local and regional authorities would like to be able to incorporate the CSR criterion into their public orders, at least marginally, which would be a step forward. I think it is absolutely necessary to speed up, and the local and regional authorities are asking for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u177	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 1031, concerning the mobilization of the national security reserve during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u178	The Act of 28 July 2011 to facilitate the use of military and civil reserves in the event of a major crisis established the National Security Reserve. This allows for major events which, by their magnitude or duration, saturate the capacities of the active forces of the armed forces and of the civil protection and relief forces. It consists of "reservists from the Military Operational Reserve, the National Police Civil Reserve, the Health Reserve, the Prison Civil Reserve and the Civil Security Reserves". Since May 7, 2015, the Prime Minister can use the National Security Reserve by convoking by decree the reservists, who are then obliged to return to their assignment. The crisis of the covid-19 does not seem to have justified his recourse. Why? Are we truly capable of mobilizing our national security reserve? Who and under whose control are the operational reservists' files maintained, including those under RO2, the second-level operational reserve? I am convinced that, in the light of this crisis, we must question our means of action and therefore of mobilisation. Our right has piled up the devices: National Security Reserve, National Guard, and Business Continuity Plan staff. Everything helps us to think that we are armed to deal with a major crisis. In the face of a global crisis of tension, health, national education, security of persons and property, prison administration, civil security and also network managers, including communication, the national security reserve is obviously the right response. Yet, do we have the certainty that we have a doctrine of the overall use of reserve forces, while they are, in fact, based on a multitude of actors who have been working in isolation for years?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u180	As you indicate, Ms. Bono-Vandorme, the National Security Reserve has been in operation since 2011 and has been facilitated since 2015 to convene all civilian and military reserves when a crisis endangers the continuity of the State's action or the nation's ability to survive. In order to deal with the current health crisis, various reservations have been used, but there is no need to resort to the concept of a national security reserve. For example, the ministries that needed it mobilized their own reserves and faced the crisis by turning their efforts from one territory to another or from one mission to another. For example, in the Ministry of Armed Forces, since the onset of the Coronavirus crisis, the employment of military reservists has been adapted to suit the needs: up to 150 reserve members of the Army Health Service have been employed daily alongside their active comrades, notably in the Mulhouse military resuscitation unit and in all army training hospitals. In the rest of the ministry, the focus was on supporting Sentinel and Resilience operations and strengthening departmental military delegations in support of prefects; their help has been and continues to be crucial. There was no need to mobilize RO2, a very specific reserve whose staffing is monitored by the department's Human Resources Directorate. You are wondering about our culture of mobilization of reserves and the absence of a global employment doctrine. I would like to clarify this point: it has never been envisaged to make the National Guard, for example, a unit of employment, with its own command. The National Guard is the unifying tool that was lacking to raise awareness of the reserves of the armies, the gendarmerie and the police, and to generate commitment. The reserve must respond to a logic of need, as we know, in the Ministry of Armed Forces. What specialty do we need? Where and for how long? Reservists are therefore mobilised according to the adequacy of their skills to the needs of the units to be strengthened, but also according to their ability to be integrated into them. It is also for this reason that a reserve force cannot be conceived independently of the active units in which it is intended to operate. The common denominator remains the flexibility of effective implementation. In this health crisis, the needs were determined nationally and inter-ministerially by the Interministerial Crisis Council. It defined the needs, then passed on to each department, which activated their own reserves based on the flexibility needed to bring these different arrangements into force in the territories. Would a unified command bring flexibility? That's a question we can ask ourselves. It's not always the case, we've seen it well. Would a joint provide a better structure? We can keep asking ourselves these questions. The important thing is to be as efficient as possible in the future; the experience of this crisis will allow us to do so, I hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u181	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u182	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor to put her question, No. 1027, on hospital crèches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u183	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Nurse and Health Care Officer before being a Member of Parliament, I have been particularly attentive, since the beginning of the mandate, to the working conditions of caregivers. France and the French can count on their unwavering dedication and commitment. I would like to reiterate my deep appreciation and respect for my former colleagues. To enable caregivers to better reconcile their working lives with their personal and family lives, some hospital centres have made the ambitious and relevant choice to propose an integrated care solution for their young children. This is the case of the hospital Le Vinatier in Bron, in which I practiced: since 1972 it has had a hospital crèche, the Clair de lune crèche, with a capacity of seventy cradles. Hospital nurseries offer a wide range of opening hours and great flexibility to accommodate children. As a result, their operation is more expensive than that of a traditional crèche and requires more funding. In view of this, the question arises of additional support from the Ministry of Solidarity and Health through the CNAF – Caisse nationale des allocations familiales. In times of health crisis, the existence of such structures is an essential resource in the care of the children of the care workers involved. Does the department intend to provide specific funding to these institutions in order to ensure their sustainability? Does he intend to develop them in other hospital centres, in order to provide care workers with a carer's mode of care adapted to their specific working conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u184	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u185	As you said, Mrs Khedher, the health crisis has shown the importance for health institutions of having facilities for the care of young children of the care workers involved. These receptions must be adapted to the specific nature of their work, i.e. often offer broad timetables and staggered schedules. Like the Vinatier Hospital, many institutions have developed this type of capacity, some of which have been in existence for a very long time. The decision to offer this type of reception must remain in the hands of the institutions. Indeed, some of them have a limited need, due to the composition of their staff or their territorial location – reception capacities in cities that meet the needs of employees sometimes exist nearby. On the other hand, other institutions have to meet the childcare needs of paramedical and medical personnel, by building up such facilities, offering atypical schedules. Hospitals that have chosen to set up a crèche for their staff all benefit from the financial support of their family allowance fund, in particular from the provision of a single service – the so-called PSU – which is now calculated on time rather than on the basis of a standard day of reception; This makes it possible to take into account extended hourly amplitudes such as those of hospital crèches. Substantial funding from the CAF also provides adequate and substantial support to these hospital nurseries. Finally, they can mobilise a specific national fund, the public funds and territories, which support the promoters of establishment projects or services offering a reception on an extended schedule or on atypical schedules – in the evening, at night or on Sundays and public holidays. The CAF therefore provides substantial funding, both in operation and in investment, which is fully open to the development of nurseries for hospital staff. Flexibility should be left to different territories, depending on whether or not there are appropriate modes of care. It is the responsibility of hospital or establishment directors to have a territorial dialogue with their immediate environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u186	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u187	I would like to congratulate the hospital community for its work in optimizing the model and day-to-day management of these structures. In particular, I would like to thank the director of the Clair de lune crèche at Le Vinatier Hospital and her entire team, who were strongly mobilized during this period. I hope, in the continuation of your reply, that the Minister of Solidarity and Health will pay particular attention to the financing of hospital nurseries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u188	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to put her question, No. 1046, on the reconstruction of the hospital-university centre in Caen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u189	In 2015 it was decided to rebuild the CHU in Caen, whose friendly building would no longer have been up to standards in the long run. After several years of reflection, a project providing for a capacity reduction of 200 beds was validated, and all the administrative steps launched for the reconstruction. While in 2015 this reduction in the number of beds might seem delicate but conceivable, especially with the development of outpatient medicine, it is now totally inappropriate and inappropriate. Indeed, even before the crisis of the covid -19, the establishment could not, in five years, begin this reduction; Some beds have even been created to meet the needs of the population pool. In order to cope with the crisis of the covid-19 and free 200 beds, the establishment was forced to deprogram, as elsewhere, all unnecessary interventions, even though our region was much less affected than others. Noting that it is impossible to reduce the institution's bed capacity, the Inter-Hospital Collective, supported by the Mayor of Caen, the Regional President and parliamentarians, sounds the alarm and calls for a review of the reconstruction project. The current crisis has demonstrated with violence the inadequacy of our health care system, which health professionals have compensated with incredible and exemplary dedication. The project to rebuild the CHU in Caen has proved to be inadequate to meet the needs. It is still time to correct it in order to avoid short-term problems of health care for the population. It is essential to review it in order to adjust its capacity in beds. Be aware that in 1974, on the very day of the inauguration of the CHU of Caen – the current, the famous tower – the elected representatives present, they remember, regretted its undersized number of beds. Let us not repeat the same mistake fifty years later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u190	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u191	Dumont, the project to rebuild the Côte de Nacre Hospital, the main site of the CHU in Caen, was decided in November 2016. It represents an investment of 502 million euros, supported by the State to the tune of 350 million euros. The new CHU is scheduled to open in 2026. This almost complete reconstruction is necessary because the current premises are characterized by heavy fire safety constraints and by a strong presence of asbestos, which effectively limits any major changes. The dimensioning of the future CHU was planned in 2016, with reference to the practices found in establishments of comparable size and activity. Based on the prospects for the development of outpatient care, occupancy rates and average length of stay, the reconstruction project has identified a need for beds and hospital spaces that are below initial capacity. I commend the work done by the entire hospital community to build a modern UHC that addresses the issues of care, training and research. Clearly, the anticipation work of future organizations takes place in several phases. Ten years will have elapsed between the first version of the project in 2016 and the end of the project in 2026. However, for a project of this scale, it is essential to take into account the possible or even necessary improvements that are specified over time, in view of the health needs and the evolution of care. The elements of the 2016 project, including the number of beds and places, are therefore not frozen. At the beginning of 2020, moreover, the RSA – the regional health agency – authorised the creation of 45 follow-up care and rehabilitation beds, thirty of which will open as early as June, so that the CHU has a strengthened offer of hospital care, often lacking throughout the territory, we know. A national consultation should begin in the coming months to learn quickly from the management of the covid -19 epidemic, inform the decisions to be made, better prepare our health system for tomorrow's challenges and reshape the hospital. After weeks of unwavering mobilization in the face of the epidemic peak, hospital communities and all caregivers, whom I thank like you, must both take care of patients with covid -19, accompany the first weeks of deconfining and ensure the resumption of all activities in order to reduce delays in care. In a word, the time remains for resolute mobilization and, in any event, all reorganization plans are suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u192	I hope they'll even be removed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u193	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u194	You speak, Madam Secretary of State, of possible or even necessary improvements and you say that the number of beds is not frozen; Well, thank you for that. It's also good if the national consultation allows us to move forward. However, we cannot at the same time greet day after day the unwavering mobilization of the care community and not listen to the doctors, because they are the ones who question us on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u195	Mrs Florence Provenier, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question No. 1032, concerning the cities labeled "Lands of the Games 2024".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u196	At the end of December 2019, the cities of my constituency – Issy-les-Moulineaux, Boulogne-Billancourt and Vanves – were labeled "Lands of Games 2024". This label enshrines the commitment of each city concerned to sport and will allow Olympic values to live everywhere in France until 2024. It is a concrete opportunity that brings us together around three common objectives: the celebration to bring the emotions of the Games to life; the legacy to change the daily lives of the French through sport; the commitment that the project will benefit as many people as possible. Unfortunately, this momentum has been hampered by the health crisis, which has forced the population to remain confined at home and drastically reduce its practice of sport. Moreover, before confinement, the practice of weekly physical and sporting activity in Île-de-France concerned only one in two people. The sport health barometer produced by the Fédération française d'éducation physique et de gymnastics volontaire in collaboration with the Institute IPSOS reveals that 34% of the respondents have not carried out any sporting activities since the beginning of the confinement. This is all the more worrying as the World Health Organization advocates two and a half hours of physical activity a week to stay physically and mentally fit. The Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 set a course to encourage as many people as possible to participate in sport after this period when many remained motionless. The Games are a moment of celebration and emotion at which the values of sport are embodied. We must seize the leap and make the legacy of the Games continue despite the constraints of the pandemic. This is a collective challenge for all actors, public or private, associative or professional, in order to give sport its nobility and place in our lives. Minister of Sport, how do you think the "Games Land" label will allow communities to re-energize sport in their territory, in conjunction with the Olympic and Paralympic Games Organizing Committee, and relevant departments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u197	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u198	Madame Provendier, the label "Terres de Jeux" allows to involve sports actors and territories in the Olympic adventure, to value their actions when they make sport live on a daily basis in the city and to involve them in the dynamics of Paris 2024. We awarded the first of these labels as early as June 2019, four years before the Games, to associate communities and federations in successive waves, and tomorrow the associations will also be able to benefit. At this stage, 741 cities have already been labeled with 15 million inhabitants, as well as 7 regions, 76 departments and 36 sports federations. The aim is to make the Games live for the French not only during but also before the Games. The IOC – the International Olympic Committee – liked this goal, and it is even the first time that the Olympic and Paralympic movement has allowed such a mechanism, as societal benefits have become a priority for the IOC. The communities and players of the sports movement that have been labeled will benefit from several counterparts: access to a dedicated brand, "Games Land"; access to dedicated tools and content; valuing their best local actions; access to the "Games Land" community, which will be requested to welcome foreign delegations to the Games preparation centres located in the territories concerned. They will also be able to participate in inheritance-related measures, such as the sport-health system of Issy-les-Moulineaux – whose development will have to be continued at the end of the health crisis, in the interest of the good psychological and physical health of the French. I am also thinking of "swim skills" and "swim skills" from an early age, co-built by the National Sports Agency and managed jointly by communities, the sports movement, private companies and the state. The whole network will be involved in many projects that could move the lines towards sport education from an early age and the prevention of health problems, for example. The goal is unique and we all share it: to strengthen the place of sport in our daily lives. The "Terres de Jeux" label will also help to combat the risk of weakening sports associations and clubs, which have been faced by smaller structures for several weeks. We are all aware of the role played by the associative fabric in the animation of our territories and in the social bond. This risk requires us to implement a comprehensive and coordinated stimulus plan, which is currently being pursued by several departments with their partners. It will complement the SSCC system – sport, health, culture, civics – already implemented in connection with Jean-Michel Blanquer, or the learning holiday project planned for this summer, which will allow to mobilize sports and cultural associations so that the French can trust them again as soon as they enter the school. Thus, sport will continue to exist, probably not as before, as it may be necessary to respect rules of distancing, but always to the benefit of the social bond, if necessary at the present time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u199	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u200	Thank you for that clarification, minister, and for this fantastic project that brings us together. In addition to the necessary place that sport must occupy in our lives, my concern is linked to the constraints resulting from the pandemic. It is not known whether it will be possible to practice sport again before the end of 2020, which will inevitably have an impact on how we appreciate the 2024 Games. My question was therefore about how ministries, local elected representatives and associations will reinvent the Games after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u201	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to put her question, No. 1022, on domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u202	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, during the containment period, the assistance platforms received five times more reports than last year. These data are all the more terrifying because, with confinement and in camera, it has been even more difficult for victims to call for help. Whether it is violence against women or children, whether it is psychological, physical or sexual, the crisis has been acute. Women and families have managed to find refuge in accommodation or hotel rooms made available, especially by local authorities, as is the case in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis. Their number, however, is dramatically insufficient. Ninety reception points have been set up in shopping centres. In addition, pharmacies have been mobilized to gather the words of more than 400 people and to guide them. I would like to welcome these measures. However, the most essential relays are associations, municipalities, gendarmerie and police stations. I measure it in my constituency, where I work closely with them when reports of domestic violence occur. Family planning also warns about difficulties of access to abortion, the voluntary termination of pregnancy. What lessons do you learn from this period? Does the Government intend to perpetuate and generalize the new arrangements and increase the number of shelters for women victims of violence? Will it extend the time for access to the IVG? How high will it raise the budget dedicated to supporting associations that struggle tirelessly to prevent violence and protect and support victims? Finally, what financial support will it provide to the municipalities in this area and to the departments concerned with social assistance for children?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u203	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u204	Mrs Buffet, Marlene Schiappa cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. We all know that for a system to be effective and for victims to seize it, it must be known. For this reason, the State Secretariat for Gender Equality, together with the Ministry of the Interior, constantly recalls the existence of emergency and warning mechanisms: on the 17th, 30 per cent more calls were received following domestic violence; 2000 cases of domestic violence were submitted by SMS to 114, 700 of them for urgent intervention by the police or gendarmerie; the platform stop violence.gouv.fr, on which the number of chats doubled during confinement, rising to more than 3000, including 1600 concerning domestic violence; More recently, the National Order of Pharmacists and the pharmacies have mobilized to open the possibility of giving the alert in pharmacy. Other innovations in alerting and accompaniment of victims have emerged: the Government has developed partnerships with groups that own shopping centres and with associations. Ninety listening venues have been opened throughout the country, allowing for the accompaniment of more than 400 people, some of whom have been sheltered, as a result of domestic violence. If the crisis was sudden, we assessed the risks of containment for victims of violence. The emergency plan against domestic violence during the health crisis sets out a clear objective: to increase contact with victims, to protect them and to accompany them. As you said, associations, whether national or local, obviously play a decisive role. To help them adapt to the period, we have created a special fund, financed by the State, with EUR 1 million. It provides additional grants to associations for various activities: purchase of mobile phones and computers, support for the transport of women, information, teleconsultation equipment and support for human resources. As of that date, 210 associative actions have been supported, amounting to €300,000, and many other projects are under consideration throughout the country. We will know what the effects of these new arrangements and the support to associations have been on the fight against domestic violence during confinement, thanks to an assessment mission entrusted on 26 March to the Secretary-General of the Inter-ministerial Mission for the Protection of Women from Violence and the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings, Ms. Élisabeth Moiron-Braud. The objective of this mission is to monitor the situation, to quantify the prevalence of violence during confinement on the basis of several indicators, and to act thereafter. The first part of the assessment is to be sent to the Government by the end of July. Before, during and after this crisis, be assured of our determination not to let anything pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u205	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u206	I would like to stress one point that you did not mention: the housing available. Many women victims of violence do not want to stay in their homes or in their neighbourhoods, because members of the violent husband's family can stay there and put pressure on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u207	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u208	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u209	The provision, in agreement with donors and municipalities, of more housing to help these women move quickly seems crucial to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u210	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u211	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 1023, on mobile stocks of dangerous materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u212	The Neiges district, in Le Havre,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u213	Ah! This might be interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u214	...has been living in uncertainty for several years. After the Toulouse accident and the classification in the Seveso zone, the reduction of risks at the source had freed the inhabitants from uncertainty. I don't have time to give you the special story of this neighborhood, linked to the shipyards of Le Havre. The closure of the latter freed up large spaces on the wharf adjacent to Les Neiges, where boxes were piled – we call the containers –, gradually getting closer to the houses. Last night, when my request was made several weeks ago, I was given the prefect's "update": the analysis of the hazard studies would have resulted in the definition of a risk perimeter comprising half of the neighbourhood's dwellings, with significant lethal effects. Marie-José, who questioned the building permits department of the town hall of Le Havre, learned that no permits had been issued since January 1, 2020. She asks the right questions: why did the prefect and the town hall not inform the inhabitants? How is it possible to do this? Why has not a PPRT approach, i.e. a technology risk prevention plan, been implemented? Perhaps you will tell me that the ban on building permits is the first step in this process! There needs to be consultation with all stakeholders, information and transparency, and a collective search for solutions to reduce risks at source; If not, protective work should be prescribed and financial support should be provided. At worst, it would be necessary to buy the goods at their value before "bringing them to the knowledge". The Environmental Code, which you are well aware of, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, states, however, in articles L. 515-36 et seq., that polluters must be the payers. I am making available to you a bill to treat facilities permanently housing mobile stockpiles of hazardous materials in the same way as classified facilities subject to PPRT: workers, populations and economic and personal property must be protected, and funding must be guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of the PPRT Act, known as the Bachelot Act. Do you not think that the time of risk, of danger studies, of "bringing to knowledge" and of the culture of secrecy is over? The state says to people: "You are in danger, you are ruined, but circulate, there is nothing to see! If that were the case, it would be a shame. In the snow and elsewhere, citizens deserve better. We're not going to leave that alone. The time has come, perhaps you will tell me, to correct the shot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u215	Or change mayor in Le Havre!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u216	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u217	Through the example of Le Havre, you are asking Ms. Élisabeth Borne about the introduction of technological risk prevention plans for facilities permanently housing mobile stockpiles of hazardous materials. As you know, the Law of 30 July 2003 on the prevention of technological and natural risks and the repair of damage introduced the PPRT for all the Seveso high-threshold facilities existing on the date of its promulgation, in order to deal with the inherited situations of urban planning in their vicinity. The Seveso classification of a site is assessed in terms of the quantities of hazardous materials that may be present in the facility. In accordance with the case law, recurrent, permanent or quasi-permanent mobile storage at industrial sites is taken into account for the classification of the site and the realization of PPRTs: in a chemical plant, for example, the presence of toxic gas wagons is included in the analysis of the quantity of hazardous materials. Other works may also provide recurrent storage of hazardous materials, such as transport infrastructure, in which parking, loading or unloading of vehicles or equipment containing hazardous materials may take place. These infrastructures must be subject to a hazard study in order to verify the compatibility of the risks they pose to their environment. In the light of the conclusions of these hazard studies, decrees setting out requirements for the development and operation of infrastructure works may be taken by the prefect of the department. In addition, when necessary, "bring to knowledge" are passed on to local authorities, as you mentioned, in order to integrate risk into urban planning documents and to control future urbanization around these facilities. However, the legislator has provided for the establishment of PPRT only for facilities classified as Seveso High Threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u218	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u219	So I persist: it's a shame! I call on my colleagues to pay attention to this issue. Hazardous materials may be stored at yard stations, on parking lots, on river barges moored at river docks, on sea docks and on airport platforms. These spaces then become Seveso areas in which no compensation or accompaniment is provided for people who are victims of what can be called pollution. It is contrary to the values of the environmental code and the Constitution, according to which environmental risks must be limited to the source and compensate those who suffer the consequences. Madam Secretary of State, I invite you to come closer to Minister Élisabeth Borne to put around the table the various actors, in particular the associations represented on the Higher Council for the Prevention of Technological Risks of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in order to find a solution acceptable to companies and residents exposed to these risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u220	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor to put his question, No. 1038, on the production capacity of nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u221	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, a recent communication from EDF, dated 13 May, recalls that it can be cold in winter and that this can lead to peaks in electricity consumption. Although mild winters have followed in recent years, no one can rule out, as EDF rightly states, that the demand for electricity is very high at certain hours of the evening in winter. Faced with this situation, neither certain nor unlikely, the production potential of nuclear power plants must be absolutely maintained, in order to avoid point power cuts in the most fragile areas, such as the Brittany and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur regions. The first precaution is to ensure that a maximum of fifty-six reactors installed in metropolitan France will be able to generate electricity. However, in 2019 and 2020, a "large carenage", as they say, was programmed for a large part of these reactors, apart from periods of high consumption. The current pandemic has disrupted the timing of some 10-year visits, resulting in a lag in some interventions. In my department, for example, interventions on the second reactor at the Nogent-sur-Seine nuclear power plant have been postponed beyond winter. Is it everywhere? After the controversial closure of Fessenheim, can you assure us that all measures to preserve the power generation potential of the power plants are taken for the next winter? Will the current pandemic, because of the postponement of the work of the 10-year visits, have consequences for electricity generation? To be clear, how many reactors will be able to generate electricity in the coming winter and for what terawatt-hour potential?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u222	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u223	Mrs. Élisabeth Borne cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The spread of covid-19 has indeed placed France in an unprecedented situation, which has led the Government to take exceptional measures of containment of the population. In this context, all industrial sectors have been exposed to difficulties in maintaining their yards and operating activities, given the protection challenges faced by those involved at the sites. For the nuclear sector, major contractors, in particular EDF, have carried out concrete actions aimed at maintaining sufficient activity at the sites in good conditions of protection for the companies involved. I would like to commend all those involved in operations of vital importance, which, during this period, ensured the continuity of essential public services, including the supply of electricity and energy. However, the concrete measures ensuring the safe continuation of the activities and the protection of the health and safety of workers, have had an impact, which you have noted, on the programme of maintenance of the nuclear reactors of the EDF fleet. Several power plants are affected by delays in their block stops, in particular the Nogent-sur-Seine power plant No. 2 reactor, which has been in the course of a 10-year visit since February 2020; Although work is slowing down due to health constraints, recoupling to the network is still planned this autumn. We asked EDF to optimize its stop program, in order to maximize park availability for next winter and for future periods. EDF has proposed action levers on shutdown planning, the compatibility of which with nuclear safety is being examined by the Nuclear Safety Authority. In addition, Mrs Borne asked TEN to produce a precise analysis of the balance between supply and demand over the winter horizon, taking into account the situation of the nuclear fleet. On this basis, the Government will undertake all necessary actions to ensure security of supply during the next winter period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u224	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u225	I would like more details on the number of reactors able to generate electricity in the coming winter and their potential in terawatt hours. The objective is to secure, next winter, a level of production that can meet the demand for electricity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u226	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1215.u227	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on economic, ecological and health sovereignty at the test of the crisis of the Covid-19. The meeting is adjourned.
