ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u1	The next item is the discussion on a final reading of the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in economic and financial matters (adopted text No 495).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u2	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u3	Last night, we experienced exceptional events. A demonstration of extreme violence took place around the Assembly, following a rally authorized by police prefect Didier Lallement. We were far from respect for containment and barrier gestures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u4	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u5	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] The risk was perfectly assessed since the entire Bourbon Palace was surrounded by a large number of police forces. However, the same prefect Lallement had banned last Saturday a gathering of Catholics, in front of the church of Saint Sulpice, in favour of the maintenance of freedom of worship.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u6	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u7	Thank you for going straight to the point, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I recall that in the other departments where such gatherings have been authorized, no incidents have been deplored. Mr Secretary of State for the digital transition, I would like to point out that it was the same police prefect who authorized yesterday's gathering, which was followed by acts of extreme violence. This is a matter of direct concern to the Assembly, whose work has been disrupted. Many of us have not been able to join the Chamber and some employees or administrators have not been able to leave the site. Mr President, I hope that, together with President Ferrand and the Bureau, you will take this matter up, and that the actions of this reputable police prefect will be stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u9	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Le Fur, I leave you free to draw your conclusions, but you can count on me to echo them with the President of the House. I suggest that we focus now on our debates, not on prefect appointments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u10	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u11	And fiber that's not connected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u12	I am pleased to speak in this Chamber today for the final reading of the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law, says DDADUE. This text, which aims to transpose several important reforms recently introduced by EU legislation, will have been the result of a long and rich legislative process. After it was tabled on February 12 on the office of the Senate and then amended by two letters of amendment, its examination was delayed by the health crisis and did not begin in committee until June 24. The Senate has adopted new articles in committee, including the authorization of advertising to professional breeders for veterinary vaccines, the control of veterinary deserts and the ratification of ordinances. These provisions have received the Government's favourable opinion. It also passed fourteen amendments in open session, several of which constituted a real enrichment of the bill. I am thinking in particular of the provisions on the EAFRD – the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – which is an instrument for financing and programming the common agricultural policy. Nevertheless, some amendments did not receive the Government's favourable opinion, nor did article 4 bis, on consumer protection in cyberspace; I'll come back to it later. Transmitted to the National Assembly on 10 July, the DDADUE bill was discussed at the re-entry, as early as 30 September in committee and as early as 7 October in public session. The House has done a great deal to improve it, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular. I am thinking in particular of the transposition of the "audiovisual media services" directive, known as the SMA, which is very much expected by the cultural sector. I also welcome the authorisations to legislate by order on matters such as the supervision of price reduction announcements. Your assembly has been pragmatic with regard to the use of ordinances to carry out certain transpositions. The Government is very grateful for this and is committed to ensuring that these measures respect the balances that emerged in the discussions on these provisions. However, the Joint Joint Committee – CMP – was unable to reach a consensus on 22 October, due to the lack of agreement on Article 4a of the text. This was the result of a bill by Senator Sophie Primas to avoid the excessive domination of a few structuring platforms and the resulting restriction of consumer freedom of choice. This article was deleted by your assembly upon amendment by the Government. We have already, I believe, explained ourselves at length on the subject. So I only come back here to explain in a few words the reasons for this choice, which you have shared. While the objective of these provisions is commendable, the way in which it is achieved is not appropriate, in two respects. First, the provisions in question constitute a cavalier. Above all, they are premature in that, as you know, European provisions are being drawn up on the subject. The Senate has re-incorporated these provisions into this text; The Government, faithful to the position it had taken from the outset, did not intend to take them back. You will, on the other hand, be presented, as part of this final reading, some amendments adopted by the Senate that supplement the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Thus amended, this DDADUE bill necessary for France's compliance with its European obligations will finally be able to enter into force. You are therefore asked to approve this text with a number of provisions but driven by a single objective: that of a European Union that is at the service of growth while always being closer and more protective of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u13	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u14	I would like to begin by saying that, despite recent events, we can focus on the final reading of this DDADE bill, out of respect for the parliamentary work done on this text and for the draftsmen who cannot speak today. This text has been in our hands for several months now and I am pleased that we can adopt it definitively today. It is a very technical text, very dense, which has required a lot of investment and work, because of the large number of various provisions of European law which it transposes in cultural, financial and economic matters. Its objective is to improve consumer protection, to adapt it by modernising consumer law in the digital age, to strengthen the powers of the DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – to combat online fraud, to improve the fight against unfair commercial practices and to empower online sales platforms. It also aims to strengthen the single market in the genetics, animal health and veterinary medicinal products sector, to make competition law more efficient and faster, and finally to modernise electronic communication law, with the transposition of the European Electronic Communications Code and the new definition of universal service. The philosophy that guided me, which I have repeatedly repeated as rapporteur, was to transpose without overtransposing. Indeed, we are only too familiar with the risks associated with overtransposition: legal uncertainty, complexity of the law and distortions of competition which undermine the competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis our European neighbours. Parliament has done important work on this text. At first reading in the National Assembly, we voted in total more than a hundred amendments, providing legal and editorial clarifications as well as substantive amendments, of which I will mention only a few examples. A satisfactory compromise was thus reached in Article 25 on the simplified procedure before the Autorité de la concurrence. We have also increased the operational scope of the provisions strengthening the authority of the DGCCRF to combat online fraud. Finally, a number of agricultural details were finally adopted, in particular concerning plant biostimulants, the role of the chambers of agriculture and the control of products bearing the 'EC' mark. We have retained some of the Senate's contributions, which we welcome, including the provisions on veterinarians and combating desertification in this sector, as well as the maintenance of provisions to clarify the scope of certain ordinances. On the other hand, we have come back to two important aspects of the text voted by senators. We therefore wanted to re-establish the article on EAFRD, which they had deleted, as an agreement had been reached on this subject between the regions and the Government – in this regard I welcome the work of the draftsman Michel Lauzzana. We have also deleted Article 4 bis, which contains provisions of senatorial origin on consumer choice in cyberspace. I will be brief on this, because we have discussed it at length in this House over the past few weeks. We share the objective of the article; However, we have a deep disagreement as to the level at which action is to be taken. I recall that with Daniel Fasquelle, whom I greet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u15	Excellent Daniel Fasquelle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u16	... we have a report on this this topic this summer. We have received strong commitments on the part of the Government to work with the European Commission on the texts allowing for a single law and regulation at European level, which lead us to consider the Union as the best level to work on this issue. It was therefore important for us not to act at the Franco-French level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, since most of the debates have already taken place in previous readings, we can certainly ensure that this final reading is rapid and effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u17	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u18	We are called upon, a third and probably last time, to debate this afternoon the draft law on various provisions for adapting to the European Union's economic and financial law. We come back for the third time because, as stated earlier, the Joint Joint Committee held in the Senate at the end of October did not reach an agreement, which the Republican Group continues to regret. Indeed, a number of interesting proposals had been made, among others, by our fellow senators. We regret that the very important subject that they had included in article 4 bis, following a bill by Mrs Sophie Primas, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs, did not have the favour of the Government or the parliamentary majority. We have heard the comments made by both the Secretary of State on a new reading and by the rapporteur a few moments ago, expressing convergence of view – in any case, agreement in principle on the substance. We would really like to know the commitments of the Government and the negotiating line that the French authorities will hold in the already well-established European negotiations, which will accelerate from the beginning of December and the publication of the Digital Services Act. Notwithstanding this significant disappointment, which had caused the CMP to fail, and despite the lack of consideration of the Senate's contributions, which it considered to be very interesting and important, the Group of the Republicans again gives, as a matter of responsibility, a favourable reception to this bill to transpose several essential and very diverse European directives. This bill is, in a way, a draft-broom, aimed at adapting French law to the evolution of European standards in a range of areas as diverse as consumer law, market surveillance, customs rules, animal genetics, the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism or veterinary medicines, without forgetting, of course, an issue which had been very busy with the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, as the rapporteur for the opinion, Aurora Bergé, can testify, namely the transposition by order – a choice ordered by the need to go quickly – of European directives on copyright, audiovisual media services and "satellite cable". It is because we attach great importance to the transposition of the European directives – in particular of the three I have just mentioned, on which I had the chance to work when I was a member of the European Parliament – that we reiterate our agreement on this bill to transpose and adapt our country's law to developments in European law. It is our responsibility to vote in favour. With all due respect to a member of the Government of the Republic, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to recall that, during the second reading discussion, you had dealt with it in a way that I would call casual...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u19	Unrighteous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u20	...or, at the very least, clumsy, certain aspects of the argumentation that I was exposing. It seems to me that an intervention aimed at relaying concerns or legislative initiatives emanating from a particular segment of parliamentary opinion – in this case, the overwhelming majority of the Senate – is not intended to be welcomed in a casual manner by the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Actir ens groups, and some benches of the Dem group]] Having said that, as a matter of responsibility, I repeat, and in a constructive spirit and inspired by the concern for the general interest, we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u21	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u22	Today, on 18 November, we finally complete the long parliamentary journey of the second DDADE, as it is customary to call it familiarly, of this legislature. First of all, I would like to highlight the trans-party work that has been carried out in perfect complementarity between the two chambers. Unfortunately, the Joint Joint Committee has not been able to agree on a joint drafting of the bill, but the work between our two assemblies has nevertheless been intense, and there are many points of consensus. I would like to commend the work done by the Senate. Several of the provisions which it has produced have been retained in the text on which we are going to vote: I am thinking in particular of the proposal to authorise advertising on vaccines and, above all, the proposal to combat veterinary desertification, following the model of the fight against medical desertification. This bill, whose technicality and the extreme diversity of subjects can dispel, is of great importance. Its purpose is to transpose several European texts into French law and to ensure that our national law is brought into line with them. This step is necessary because France must comply with all the requirements of European Union law before the beginning of its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will begin on 1 January 2022. However, the technical nature of the issues must not make us forget the importance of the issues raised. These four issues are of great importance to us. First of all, it is about consumer protection; Secondly, transparency in business relations, in financial and customs regulations, in competition rules, but also in the genetics and animal health sectors; thirdly, the future of creation, diversity and cultural sovereignty; Fourthly, more comprehensively, the improvement of the functioning of the internal market. I would like to return more precisely to the first three points. In the area of consumer protection, this bill adapts our right to the digital age, which, if it provides new opportunities, also introduces new threats. In concrete terms, it prohibits geo-blocking, restrictions on online sites based on nationality, place of residence or place of connection. Unwarranted geo-blocking affects in particular ultramarine citizens, still facing restrictions in their internet navigation in 2020. With regard to transparency in inter-firm relations, which is particularly important in the agricultural and food chain, the loyalty of transactions in trade relations is a major issue, as they are almost always largely unbalanced. This is, again, a concrete step forward for our small and medium-sized enterprises in the food and agricultural sector, which we can only welcome. Finally, some of the financial provisions transposed are particularly essential. I am thinking in particular of the fight against money laundering, for which the text proposes a check on the so-called "unaccompanied" cash, i.e. money shipped by freight, including express freight or postage, for an amount equivalent to 10000 euros or more. As far as measures relating to the cultural sector are concerned, I should like to comment on the provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication which are included in this text, which ensure better protection of authors against harmful contractual practices which deprive creators of their rights under French law. It is a subject dear to Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats, who have been calling since the beginning of this legislature for better control by the public authorities of contractual practices in order to enforce copyright and related rights in all their rigour and all their dimensions. That is the purpose of the articles we are voting on today and we are obviously satisfied with them. I would also like to welcome the passage, for online video platforms, from the country of origin to the country of destination, which obliges services targeting France to contribute to national production. Ladies and gentlemen, the MoDem Group and related Democrats will vote without hesitation in favour of this bill, the main objective of which is the construction of an even more protective European framework for citizens. This strengthening is all the more important in the context of the terrible health and economic crisis that we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u23	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u24	This text of adaptation to the law of the European Union comes today for consideration on final reading after an absence of a conclusive vote in the Senate. With various provisions relating to the transposition of fifteen directives and the adaptation of eleven European regulations, it may have deserved better than a legislative-broom vehicle composed of provisions which had nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u26	The transpositions of directives and adaptations of European regulations also use numerous ordinances – several articles contain an application for authorisation. This preponderant place left to the regulatory power does not plead in favour of the publicity of debates and the democratisation of the issues related to the European Union. Two points of disagreement between the Assembly and the Senate remained after the CMP failed, Article 23 on the EAFRD and Additional Article 4 bis on the digital sectors. With regard to article 23, which empowered the Government to legislate by ordinances in order to allocate the management of superfacial aid to the State and that of non-superfacial aid to the regions, the Senate's opposition was lifted: the senators proposed to take note of the new wording of this article, especially since the regions and farmers would have received clarification in the meantime. The main blocking point that remains between the two assemblies is that relating to Article 4 bis, resulting from a proposal by Senator Sophie Primas on consumer choice in cyberspace and adopted unanimously by groups in the Senate. Even if the majority The Republic on the move of the Assembly seems to agree on the substance, it considers this Article 4 bis to be a legislative cavalier, and doubts its timeliness as a result of the ongoing negotiations on the subject at European Union level. Indeed, the European Commission has made strong commitments in the area of the Digital Services Act, which will be presented next December. Article 4a originally proposed a new framework for digital giants through three main provisions – terminal neutrality, platform interoperability and enhanced merger control – in order to understand the so-called predatory acquisitions of digital giants. A fourth mechanism had been added to protect consumers from misleading interfaces, but the House rapporteur refused to adopt this provision on the grounds that the new Article would then create legal uncertainty due to new rules which would not be known whether they would apply to the given deadline. Even if there is nothing to prevent French legislation coming in anticipation of the European legislator, it is not absurd to wait until the European Commission has presented its proposal. Finally, I would like to welcome the provisions on the audiovisual media and copyright directives, which are urgently being transposed and demanded by the entire profession. We have already highlighted the progress made by this transposition, which we have supported despite our reluctance to go through ordinances. It is based on two axes, the first of which is the responsibility of the platforms, which must and will have to answer for the content they put online, not only from an ethical and societal point of view, but also because this question determines the economy of a whole creative chain in which artists, authors and performers must have access to fair remuneration, in maintaining their right to freedom of contract, which allows them to accept or refuse publications. The second priority is the accountability of all players in the sector, including users. In committee, all the groups agreed on the need to find a balance, but we also stressed the lack of means to enable the High Authority for the dissemination of works and the protection of rights on the Internet – HADOPI – to exercise its monitoring mission more effectively, or even to think about a more effective mechanism in particular in the field of the protection of minors, which is highly exposed to violent content, particularly in the field of pornography, which circulates globally on networks. The fact that regulations take account of different types of services rather than channels creates misunderstandings, which we regret. In addition, there is a lack of transparency in the audiovisual sector, which further complicates the task of the legislator. How can we harmonise uncompromising national legislation in a sector that has become pan-European if we do not come up with a clearer definition of services on demand? What is the rationale for separating the SMA directive from the telecoms package? The question of the country of origin or the country of destination was also at the heart of the discussions, and the changes will have to ensure that audiovisual media services contribute much more to national production. It is understandable, between liberalism, whose dangers and limitations Brexit has shown, and the increasing importance of services from non-Community countries, the task of the legislator remains complex. Although this legislation contains useful provisions, for the reasons I have mentioned, the Socialist and Related Group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u27	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u28	We are meeting again to consider this bill, as the CMP has not reached an agreement. We can, however, be content to adopt this text today, because there was an urgent need for France to comply with 18 directives and 14 European regulations. This bill is of interest to citizens and businesses. For example, it makes it possible to harmonise the quality controls of products marketed on the internal market in a fairer way: it is a strong demand on the part of our citizens and companies to see the same rules applied by all and for everything. We also adopt our consumer law in the digital age by strengthening sanctions against fraud or by combating unfair practices. Thanks to the work of our colleague Éric Bothorel, the fight against illegal content and online fraud has also been strengthened by giving new blocking powers to the DGCCRF when it finds an infringement. However, we all know that we will have to go further in digital regulation, in particular by strengthening our ability to make the fight against all restrictive competition practices for digital platforms effective and effective. Some platforms, through their systemic role in their markets and the vertical integration of certain functions, distort the play of free competition without, to date, adapting our legislation to this phenomenon. From this point of view, Mr.Secretary of State, the work done in the Senate at the initiative of the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs Sophie Primas had its full meaning. It will be necessary to build on this work to focus France's ambition in the negotiations on the future Digital Services Act. This could be an opportunity to thoroughly revise the current legal regime, based on the e-commerce Directive, adopted 20 years ago. France must be ambitious in terms of neutrality of terminals and platforms as well as transparency of practices. It must also defend the necessary possibility for states to audit the practices of digital giants when using artificial intelligence algorithms. It is our sovereign ability to enforce our law, our democratic values in cyberspace. We count on you, Secretary of State, to conduct this fight at European level. We also welcome the implementation of an expanded universal service, which is more in line with the new practices of our fellow citizens in this area. It is important to adapt it to avoid any feeling of inequality in the face of digital services in some rural areas. It also makes it possible to modernise electronic communications law by transposing the European Telecommunications Code. With regard to culture, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and its draftsman for opinion, Aurore Bergé. The transposition of the SMA directive is highly anticipated by authors, artists and professionals in the media and cultural industries. It must enable us to protect our model of cultural exception by restoring fairness between all the actors who broadcast audiovisual and cinematographic works in France. We can therefore be proud to be one of the first Member States to implement this directive, which is crucial for the cultural industry. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] All these measures are in the right direction. Therefore, the Action Together group will again vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u29	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u30	We are approaching this bill with some confidence. This text, of a technical nature, contains provisions covering almost the entire spectrum of economic and financial activity. It deals with consumer protection, the digital market, the fight against fraud and money laundering, business relations, competition rules and even animal genetics. It is not shocking that these transpositions are, as is often the case, by order, provided that Parliament is associated with them, which is more rare. This diversity corresponds to the desire to strengthen the integration of our internal market before the harmonisation of the laws of the different Member States, in a simplification approach. This diversity is also a sign of a latent delay in transposing European Union law. In order to ensure the competitiveness of our enterprises, it is indeed necessary to have a national law which complies with the requirements of the European Union. It will be important in the future to be more responsive – let us remember this lesson. The bill originally had 25 sections, and now has 42, of which about 15 provide for the use of orders. This final reading follows the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, prompted by the lack of agreement on Article 4a adopted unanimously by the Senate and deleted by the Assembly. Added to the initiative of Senator Sophie Primas, it was intended to introduce a new regulatory power in terms of terminal and platform neutrality. The majority justified its refusal by the fact that European legislation was being drawn up on this subject. We believe that a reasonable compromise could have been reached to regulate this sector. I would like to welcome the developments permitted by the Senate, in particular those aimed at facilitating the practice of certain veterinary acts or the freedom given to local and regional authorities to assist certain veterinarians in areas where there is a shortage of these professionals. Of course, we regret that the audiovisual bill, some of which is included in this text, was not able to go beyond the stage of examination in committee, but we understand the need to act quickly on several of the issues it addressed, including the remuneration of authors or the participation of digital platforms in the financing of French works. With regard to the fight against fraud, we call for a strengthening of the control of financial flows through the adoption of vigorous measures – it is in this spirit that Pascal Brindeau, Michel Zumkeller and Nathalie Goulet led their fight against fraud in social benefits. We are witnessing an evolution of the cash flow control system. In this sense, the strengthening of the traceability of container flows and the intensification of the control of customs risk analysis services, particularly in the area of fraud, are essential. Furthermore, we support stricter supervision and regulation of the banking sector, in particular through the transposition of the measures in the banking package, which strengthen prudential supervision of investment firms. Finally, we welcome the continued management of EAFRD funds at local level. Let us trust the territories and our elected ones. We will be vigilant about any over-transposition in the ordinances. Let us stop wanting to be the best student and make sure that our companies can fight on equal terms with those of the other Member States. In this regard, I regret that consideration of the bill abolishing overtranspositions of European directives into French law has been suspended, even though some of its provisions have been incorporated into various bills. Harmonisation, simplification and efficiency: this text provides, for once, concrete proof that Europe can protect. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u31	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u32	The Council of the European Union and the European Parliament have adopted several key reforms aimed at consolidating the European internal market and financial system in recent years. The bill that we are considering for final reading is intended to incorporate them into our national law. If we have no major objections to the very purpose of the bill, we regret the method used by the Government. He again made the choice to resort massively to prescriptions, not because of the technicality of the subjects, as I could hear, but because of mismanagement of the schedule. The delays at the beginning of the quinquennium to ensure the transposition of the European directives force you to act in haste so that France is up to date with its obligations when it takes over the presidency of the Council of the European Union. In doing so, you are dispossessing Parliament from its prerogatives as legislator – this is not the first or last time – and you are depriving us of debates on key issues. Let us add that we are forced to look at this text at a time when the legislative agenda is already busy, due to the health crisis and the consideration of the 2021 finance bill. As for the introduction of a new reading of an authorisation to transpose by order the Directive of 7 October 2020 on markets in financial instruments, it does not comply with the funnel rule and could therefore be censored by the Constitutional Council. In substance, it would be illusory to address the bill in a comprehensive manner. I will therefore stick to a few salient points. As a first step, I will refer to the provisions on consumer protection, particularly in the digital field. The translation of European directives into our national law will allow for the introduction of a compliance guarantee for digital content and services, the prohibition of geographical blocking or the strengthening of the fight against false online notices. These are tangible advances for the French Internet user. Article 27, which states that all consumers will now have to benefit from an adequate high-speed Internet and voice communications service, echoes the concerns of our citizens. Too many French people are still waiting for the New Deal Mobile and France's very high-speed plan to materialize in their territories. In the field of digital technology, Article 4 bis, the object of discord between the Assembly and the Senate, has led to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. Among other things, it provides for the supervision of Internet platforms through the neutrality of terminals and the interoperability of platforms, or the fight against so-called predatory acquisitions. These concerns are legitimate and honourable senators are honoured to propose concrete solutions. However, it seems to us that the Digital Services Act, negotiated at European level, will be a more effective vehicle for dealing with these issues. The second point I would like to address is the transposition of the directives on the audiovisual sector. They contain essential measures, which affect the proportional remuneration of authors, the sharing of value with platforms or the contribution to the financing of French works by foreign channels and platforms targeting France. Particular attention will be paid to the content of orders and orders made pursuant to the ADM directive. They will need to strike a balance between all stakeholders in order to preserve and foster cultural diversity. A word now about the financial arrangements. Several harmonisations across the European Union are welcome. I am thinking, for example, of the use of financial information to prevent criminal offences, particularly terrorism or money laundering. Others correspond to key European projects, such as the Banking Union or the Capital Markets Union. I will finish with the veterinary measures. We hope that harmonization will not lead to a levelling down of standards, a fortiori in a country like ours that excels in this area. As for the provisions to combat veterinary desertification, we hope that they will be more effective than those aimed at combating medical desertification. Despite some questions and, in order to remain polite, the unpleasant feeling that we have been disbanded from our role as legislator by excessive recourse to the ordinances, the Liberties and Territories group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u33	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u34	I will focus on the three articles of the bill on which the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has been referred for its opinion, a committee in which my colleague Michel Larive has been actively involved. Two of these are the result of government amendments presented in the Senate on 8 July 2020. They aim to empower the Government to legislate by order to transpose European directives. The content of these articles actually covers a large part of the provisions of the audiovisual bill, which was abandoned in the spring. Far from reaching consensus, these provisions have been discussed and amended by all political groups. Discussions were even held in the majority between the rapporteurs and the Government. By making an order in such an important area, the Government once again deprives Parliament of its rights and deliberately challenges the normal functioning of our democracy. Let us take, for example, article 24 bis to empower the Government to make orders to transpose the directive on copyright and related rights into the digital single market: it corresponds in all respects to articles 16 and 17 of the draft audiovisual law. It establishes the principle that content sharing platforms become responsible for such content. During the debate on the draft audiovisual law, the group La France insoumé was the spokesperson for various associations, such as La quadrature du net, in order to oppose the consequences of this measure: in our view, it is tantamount to making filtering tools mandatory for downloading and uploading. This would result in a widespread monitoring system for Internet users as well as abusive deletions of content. During the examination of the draft audiovisual law, we had discussed the amendments proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (France) which were not intended to achieve interoperability. The latter would preserve the freedom of users by offering them the opportunity to leave a platform without breaking the interpersonal links with other users. In other words, we could leave Facebook for another platform by keeping our contacts. At the moment, this is not technically possible, which gives companies such as YouTube, Facebook or Twitter disproportionate power. Thanks to their huge number of users and the lack of interoperability, these GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – have made us captive and impose constant surveillance for commercial and advertising purposes. In short, while this directive seeks to defend the rights of authors and condemns piracy, it does not attack the monopoly of platforms or the illegality of their revenues, based on advertising that does not receive the consent of users. Such an issue calls for an in-depth debate on the part of national representation, which is prevented by the method of ordinances. Michel Larive wanted to table an amendment requesting an information report on how to apply a interoperability obligation for service providers and online content sharing. Unfortunately, it was found inadmissible, which again prevented any parliamentary discussion. Another example is article 24 ter, which seeks to empower the Government to make ordinances to transpose the directive on audiovisual media services: again, Parliament is deprived of debate. Yet the Government is pushing us to vote for its amendment. In its summary statement, it states that Member States must comply with the Directive by 19 September 2020 at the latest, and that in the event of non-compliance with that deadline, France could be the subject of an action for failure by the European Commission before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The threat of European sanctions in no way justifies the obstacles to parliamentary debate. Nor does it justify that the conditions imposed on audiovisual media or video-on-demand services, as regards the contribution to the development of the production of works, should be decided by decree. This procedure also prevents us from denouncing the amendment to the effect that expenditure on higher education institutions for artistic creation, in the fields of cinema and audiovisual communication, should be taken into account in the calculation of expenditure eligible for the contribution to the development of production. Thus, the Government can respond to Disney+'s injunctions without MPs having a say! Thanks to you, Disney will be able to train its executives at the École de l'image des Gobelins, while emancipating itself from its obligations to finance independent production or in French! Voting for these articles in the bill would be tantamount to giving a vote of confidence to the Government to negotiate with the major platforms on subjects as primordial as freedom of expression, censorship, widespread surveillance of Internet users or facial recognition. Arbitrariness, blank cheques and the denial of Parliament are not part of our practices. We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u35	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u36	We are looking at, at last reading, a "cradle-all" text whose sole purpose is to bring us into line as quickly as possible with an impressive number of European directives and regulations, some of which date back more than three years. Some provisions do not require any particular comment and there is broad consensus, such as measures to protect consumers' rights, to combat unfair commercial practices, to laundering or to control the flow of cash. Others are difficult and would have required a much more in-depth debate. This is the case with the transposition of directives aimed at reducing costs and obstacles for fund managers and investors in the European area, and even more so with the directive on the transparency of State aid of a tax nature. Indeed, the latter is not intended to ensure that citizens and economic actors are transparently informed of the public money and the burden-relief benefits of a given undertaking: it is in fact intended to better identify and control potential infringements of free competition, and to prevent the State from supporting, through targeted measures, the industrial sectors at risk. This increased control of compliance with the sacrosanct rules of competition reflects the desire to persist, despite the crisis and no matter what the cost, in a liberal forward flight. We are also surprised to find, in this bill, the transposition of two 2019 European directives on copyright and related rights, which aim to better protect the rights of authors whose works are disseminated on platforms. These guidelines, by empowering suppliers, give them an automated censorship power that raises questions. The subject should also be discussed in depth. Parliament cannot entrust to the Government, at the turn of a text such as this, the task of negotiating with the major platforms on matters of interest to the protection and exercise of public freedoms. The arrangements for the contribution of audiovisual media services and subscription video platforms to the production of works are also not intended to be decided by decree without debate. The Assembly considered it appropriate to delete, at first reading, an article unanimously adopted by the Senate, which itself included a bill passed by senators. The latter proposed a new framework for digital giants, through three main provisions: terminal neutrality, interoperability of platforms, and strengthening merger control in order to apprehend so-called predatory acquisitions. You wished to delete this article. In other words, after refusing any moratorium on Amazon's settlements, you want to show the digital giants white foot, thus serving interests that are not in the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Unfortunately, as we have said and repeated in the course of the shuttle, the disproportionate format of the text, which has been constantly amended by the Government, does not allow the Assembly to conduct a debate worthy of that name and fully exercise its prerogatives. You have reduced us caricatureally to the status of a registration chamber. This is increasingly the case, and we find these working methods unacceptable. For these reasons, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u37	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u38	This is the last time we have come together for a final reading of a text which has fed into the debates of the two chambers for several months, and which aims at adapting our right to the European Union's right in economic and financial matters. In previous readings and debates, we have had the opportunity to recall the importance of this text, through which we will bring our law into line with eighteen directives and fourteen European regulations. We will thus be up to date on our European obligations, and will be able to make France a model for the transposition of Union law. In order to meet the deadlines, the Government has made the choice, albeit criticized, of resorting to various orders. This is a pragmatic, serious choice that responds to the urgency of the transposition deadlines and the complexity of European economic and financial regulations. Although the text includes, as a whole, heterogeneous technical measures, it aims to improve consumer protection. It contains provisions to adapt our right to digital issues, to clarify the framework of digital platforms, to facilitate market surveillance and product compliance, and to combat unfair commercial practices. It strengthens the supervisory power of DGCCRF and customs, increases transparency on state aid, and amends provisions in the field of animal genetics. Although his substantive analysis has returned to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it has nevertheless required the participation of our colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, as well as in the Committee on Finance. On behalf of the La République Group on the move, I would like to thank them for that. At its first reading in the Senate, the text had been supplemented by provisions relating to veterinary deserts, or unfair commercial practices between suppliers and large-scale distribution. Our assembly welcomed these provisions, and in turn had completed the text by amending and modernising the procedures before the Autorité de la concurrence, or by supplementing the part relating to universal service. In cultural matters, we had transposed the Copyright Directive and strengthened HADOPI's prerogatives in the protection of copyright and related rights. On the financial side, we had strengthened the reporting obligations for the wine sector, or the rules on cash flows entering or leaving the European Union. Through the rapporteur, the House had done its utmost to prevent the risk of overtransposition which would, to put it again, affect our companies and our producers by creating legal uncertainty and distortions of competition vis-à-vis our European partners. It was on that basis, in particular, that we deleted rule 4 bis, which our honourable senators had added. As I recall, it was our differences of opinion on this provision that caused the CMP to fail. In addition to being a legislative cavalier, there were substantive problems with this article. Whether or not we share the objective of establishing a mechanism for regulating platforms and ensuring the neutrality of terminals, it should be admitted that the French level was not the right one: it is at European level that such a provision must be negotiated – a negotiation is also under way in the context of the debates on the Digital Services Act. We will therefore have a longer debate on the subject when this package is discussed in the Chamber. [[Applause on the LaREM and Dem benches]] The final adoption of this text will demonstrate France's exemplary transposition of European law – an example all the more important as France is about to take over the presidency of the Council of the European Union in January 2022. This text will help strengthen the internal market and the rights and freedoms of our citizens, protect their health, revitalize our territories and strengthen the supervisory authorities. That is why the Republic Group will support it. I call on all Members to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u39	The general discussion is closed. On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u40	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u41	Most of the amendments that I will introduce include amendments that the Senate adopted yesterday. I also salute senators for their work. Amendment No 2 provides a clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u42	Amendments Nos 3 and 1 by Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u43	Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u44	It brings a precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u45	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u46	We introduced it yesterday to the Senate, which adopted it. This is the transposition of Article 22 of the Directive of 11 December 2018 establishing the European Electronic Communications Code. The amendment deals with digital coverage maps and network deployment forecasts. More specifically, it aims to enable the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse – ARCEP – to ask public persons who operate a public initiative network, or who have developed a territorial master plan for digital planning, for information on the coverage and deployment of networks in their territory. It also allows ARCEP to launch its work on the geographical survey of deployments the day after the publication of the law – the rest of the provisions of the article entering into force no later than 21 December 2023. I would point out that a section on local and regional authorities has generated consensus among the local and regional authorities on the occasion of our consultation. On the other hand, an operator component has an on-board effect on frequency authorisations issued by the National Frequency Agency. It will therefore be necessary to clarify the order – in doing so, we will take care not to infringe on the existing law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u47	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u48	In the light of these clarifications, my opinion is entirely favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u49	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u50	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u51	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 179 Number of votes cast 173 Absolute majority 87 For adoption 159 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u52	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u53	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u54	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on global security (No 3452, 3527).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u55	Last night, the House began its examination of the articles, concluding with Amendment No 1021 to Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u56	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 1021, 678, 970, 639, 1098, 140, 1104 and 1232, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 678 and 970 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 140, 1104 and 1232. Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u57	On the one hand, this amendment seeks to remove the requirement of 20 police officers to start experiments, and on the other hand, to include in the calculation the rural guards, which are more numerous than we think, about 1800, who already have police powers. I ask that the threshold of twenty policemen be removed because, if I take the example of my department, only the city of Châteauroux would be affected by the scheme. And in rural areas, many municipalities have municipal police officers but do not reach this threshold. Mrs Bono-Vandorme and I consider that it would be better to let the field players, such as the prosecutor, the prefect and the mayor who would be a candidate, organize themselves. Let us trust them: it will be interesting to have a feedback on such actions in rural areas. In addition, there are many brigades of rural guards in our country. I am thinking in particular of the intercommunal brigade of the intercommunal union of the Grand Nouméa, which is composed exclusively of rural guards, whose number is more than twenty, and of the intercommunal brigade of the environment of Saint-Quentinois, in the Aisne, which has eighteen rural guards and which in the present state could not participate in the experiment. I appeal to your wisdom, Mr. Minister of the Interior, as well as to the wisdom of our assembly, with regard to this experimental device. The rapporteur, Mr Fauvergue, has no doubt considered this point yesterday, since an amendment tabled by Mr Jumel and defended by Mr Peu, which referred to the municipal and rural police, was adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u58	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor in support of Amendment No 678.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u59	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is not to keep the threshold of 20 agents, in the interests of fairness vis-à-vis rural communes which do not have a high number of employees, so that each mayor may or may not be able to join this experimental scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u60	Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 970.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u61	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u62	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor to support Amendment No. 639.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u63	This amendment by Mr Le Fur aims to broaden, like the previous amendment which we have examined, but on another point, the scope of the experiment by extending it to public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – which may, in some cases, have police powers. It would also be desirable, as Mr Jolivet's amendment provides, to extend the experiment to the rural guards and to set a much less demanding demographic criterion, so that the experiment is wider.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u65	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1098.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u66	Pursuant to article L. 512-2 of the Internal Security Code, the President of an EPCI may recruit municipal police officers to make them available to the various municipalities. It therefore seems appropriate and interesting to include the EPCIs in this text so that they can also benefit from this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u67	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u68	This amendment is also intended to add the reference to own-tax IBDAs as employers of municipal police officers. The General Code of Local and Regional Authorities states that, at the request of mayors of several municipalities belonging to the same public institution for inter-municipal cooperation with own taxation, the latter may, after deliberation by at least two thirds of the municipal councils of the municipalities concerned representing more than half of the total population of those municipalities, recruit one or more municipal police officers with a view to making them available to all those municipalities. Within this framework, the EPCI is the statutory employer and the mayor is the functional employer. This system has many advantages and can be a good solution in rural areas and municipalities that will not be able to benefit from the experimentation provided for in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u69	The rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic has the floor to support Amendment No. 1104.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u70	This amendment allows EPCIs with at least 20 municipal police officers, including at least one director or chief of police, to participate in this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u71	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 1232.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u72	Municipalities with less than 20 municipal agents cannot benefit from the experiment. My amendment aims to add the EPCIs, which would allow some to reach this threshold of twenty police officers and thus participate in this excellent experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u73	The last amendment to the joint debate is No 805. Is he defended? He's not. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u74	I am obviously in favour of my amendment and against others. Those who propose the addition of EPCI are satisfied not with my amendment. But I am not in favour of those who want to remove the threshold of the twenty officers, because it takes a critical size, initially, for this experiment, with a dedicated training for the security directors and the chiefs of the municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u75	The Minister of the Interior has the floor to give the Government's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u76	I would like to thank the parliamentarians for proposing to improve Article 1. There are three types of amendments: that of the rapporteur, with two identical amendments, on the EPCI, to which I give a favourable opinion; that of Mr. Jolivet, who mentions the rural guards; Mrs Bono-Vandorme and other speakers who wanted all municipalities to be candidates. Mrs Bono-Vandorme, I understand your concern, but we must not generalize the experiment before it has even begun. So you have to choose a threshold. This threshold may eventually be discussed, for example when the text comes back from the Senate, and I have also said that I am in favour of applying it not only to a commune, but to an EPCI, knowing that the police power belongs to the mayor, and is eventually delegated. On the other hand, to generalize the experiment, which may not be good, to all mayors when judicial powers are given does not seem to me to be a good policy. I would therefore like to address the issue of thresholds, but I would like to point out that the threshold requirement is added to that of the presence of a chief or service manager, who is not a systematic one: in the event of adoption, some communities may object to the imposition of additional burdens on them. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the letter of your amendment, Madam Member. I do not want all mayors to be able to apply for experimentation; It must be reserved for 200 or 300 communes. Once again, however, I am prepared to examine the thresholds adopted, particularly in the inter-municipal framework, since the rapporteur's amendment could be adopted if the majority follows it. I understand your question, Mr Jolivet, which was shared by many parliamentarians in committee; The Government, however, expressed an unfavorable opinion. However, if you agree and if the rapporteur agrees, I will propose that his amendment be sub-amended – the shuttle will make it possible to refine the text and make it operational – in order to add the rural guards to the municipal police. However, I do not want the adoption of your amendment to bring down that of the rapporteur. Let us sum up: I am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment by adding the rural guards, and I am unfortunately against Mrs Bono-Vandorme's amendment, which has understood that I invite her to work with the ministry during the shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u77	At this stage, the Government's sub-amendment does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u78	The method is original!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u79	The amendments may, however, be withdrawn pending second reading...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u80	I can under-amend in session, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u81	Of course, but we need a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u82	In this case I propose a brief suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u83	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u84	The meeting was resumed. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1353, which is in addition to the previous joint debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u85	It is intended to include field guards among the counted agents – twenty at this stage, even if we can go back to this threshold at a later reading – so that a community can participate in the experiment provided for in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u87	[[Smile]] The rural guards are an important body. They are about 750 and have drafted an amendment per person, addressing it to all Members... I hope they will also send it to honourable senators, so that everyone can look into the matter! Of course, I am in favour of the Government's amendment and I am maintaining my own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u88	Let us be clear: since the introduction of the Government's amendment, opinions on the previous amendments have evolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u89	Yes, it is. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u90	Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u91	I confirm my unfavorable opinion on all the amendments in favour of the one I have just defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u92	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u93	Thank you, Minister: I am absolutely delighted! You know how much I care about the cause of the rural guards, as I said and repeated in committee. I had even tabled a bill on rural guards in July 2019, and I am pleased to see that this often forgotten profession among security actors is finally recognized. In fact, the rural guards play a crucial role in the area of local internal security. The emergence of new issues such as the protection of the environment and biodiversity, and even the fight against rural crime, has led to a change in their working conditions, which would require the adaptation of some of their prerogatives. The rural guards represent public authority in the heart of villages as well as in the heart of rural areas, sometimes far from large urban centres and metropolises. They are also found in urban areas, where their role in environmental policing is very useful. They carry out missions covering more than 150 areas of expertise. It was therefore unthinkable to forget them in this bill. Thank you for correcting the shot and listening to us – and, in the end, thank the rural guards for remembering our good memory! Finally, thank you for the good and loyal services they perform for us every day of the year, as well as the municipal police and other security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u94	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u95	I understand the meaning of these amendments, particularly that of the Government, but I believe that clarification is necessary in order to avoid any legal problems. We are talking about EPCI, which has more than twenty municipal police officers, including now rural guards: are they personnel transferred to the EPCI? If that is the case, I do not see any difficulty since they will then be made available to the municipalities by the President of the EPCI for the police powers which remain those of the mayor. If, on the other hand, there is no transfer, if the number of municipal police officers in a territory is considered to be the same, there may be a conflict between the police powers that may be transferred to the EPCI and the police powers that remain to the mayor. Seeing your nod, I understand they're municipal police officers transferred, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u96	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u97	I have the chance to be elected from a territory between land and sea, with medium-sized cities as beautiful as Dieppe but also rural territories – that's why I call it little France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u98	She's here in Strasbourg!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u99	In the rural territories of this small France, the mission of the rural guards in terms of safety or preservation of the environment, in complementarity with the gendarmes – as with the police officers in urban areas – is obviously necessary. I am therefore very pleased that the amendment I tabled to integrate the rural police, which was very brilliantly defended yesterday by Stéphane Peu, makes the place of the rural guards flourish in our discussions. France has 750 today, compared to more than 40,000 in the past. That is why they must be recognized, respected and, where appropriate, given the opportunity for rural mayors to breathe new life into their mission. At the risk of sounding a little silly, minister, I claim to be for a state that assumes its regal functions and does not transfer them to the mayors. I am in favour of mayors preserving their regal police function and I am also in favour of rural mayors being able to exercise it in the interests of their citizens. The rural guards also have an essential role to play in terms of public tranquillity. I am satisfied with the government's proposal. I will also be defending amendments aimed at clarifying and consolidating the missions of the rural guards so that the law goes to the end of this point of view. I hope they'll be looked at so kindly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u100	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u101	I am surprised that the perimeter of the device is being expanded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u102	I'd have been surprised if something was right for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u103	Of course, I too am so that there are more rural guards, because they have an environmental protection mission that I think is essential at the local level; But we add the EPCIs, we add the rural guards and we decide that the number will be twenty. On what basis? To do what? From what perspective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u104	You're anti-everything! Profession: anti-everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u105	It is not known, since there has been no impact assessment or opinion of the Council of State. I imagine that is why the two rapporteurs propose an experimental device: to introduce it directly into the law without having studied anything and not knowing what it will give would be a bit cavalier. [[Exclaims on the banks of the Dem Group]] I am surprised to see everyone do their own market, such as adding a few people because it is better for the communes in their constituency, such as those calling for the communes in their territory to be so, that this is not decided by the Government. It is really the old-fashioned clientelism, the one that characterized the old world, that is the object of this experiment. We will therefore oppose it. I see you applaud, but the deletion amendment was yesterday! And we can't count on you for a catch-up session on second reading! Moreover, there is a clear shift in the nature of national police missions, which increasingly become the prerogative of municipal police. France insoubted had anticipated it since as early as 2016, we asked what would ultimately distinguish a municipal policeman from a national policeman. It's all hypocritical. If republican equality is to be guaranteed on the territory, if security needs are to be met, the municipal police force will have to be integrated into the national police force and then redeployed throughout the territory as a community police force. This would seem much more consistent to me than these experimental things where the municipal police will directly seize the prosecution without going through the OPJ – the judicial police officer – that we will still have the kindness to warn in passing, even though the municipal police officers have no investigative power and the prosecutor will not be able to turn to them for further investigation. All this bureaucracy to make clientelism: I find it below everything. In any case, not in the spirit of the objectives...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 1354 to Amendment No. 1353.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u107	The government amendment makes this sub-amendment necessary because if we adopt it, the discussion on thresholds will no longer be necessary at a time when such a debate is indispensable. Our group supports you in your desire to increase the resources of municipal police and we agree with this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u109	[[Protests on a few benches of the Dem group]] But we don't want two-speed municipal police, one for the cities, the other for the fields. We do not follow this logic: we believe that experimentation should extend to all municipal police. That is why we propose to lower the threshold to four municipal police officers or rural guards. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Let us take the example of the municipal police of Loudéac, a very effective police force at night and day, which works in perfect cooperation with the gendarmerie, which has been armed for a long time and is ready for this experiment. But it would be excluded by your rule. You will tell me that they will be able to act at intercommunal level, but the intercommunalities are large and before all the municipalities decide, it will be possible to pass months or even years. In fact, this will result in the existence of two types of municipal police. This does not suit us, and that is why we believe it is essential for all municipal police to have access to this experiment. Quite frankly, rapporteur, I regret that you have not sought the advice of the Council of State on this bill, as it was open to you to do since its consultation is no longer restricted to bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u110	We've been asked, we've been denied it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u111	This would have saved us the uncertainty and flotation that everyone saw in this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u112	What is the committee's opinion on this sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u113	Notice against lowering the threshold, which will now take into account the rural guards. In addition, I will present an amendment earlier to extend the experiment to municipalities employing at least 20 joint staff. This amendment seems to me to satisfy you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u115	The problem you are raising is similar to the one raised by Mrs Bono-Vandorme and on which I have committed myself to reflect in anticipation of the next sittings: it is the question of category A agents, necessary to transmit to the prosecutor of the Republic minutes and other judicial documents. It is therefore not a question of numbers, but of the size of the commune. Small communities may have cadres A at the head of their municipal police, but I would be surprised if that were the case with the commune of Loudéac – a charming one, I am sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u116	I invite you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u117	[[Smile]] I'm ready to go there at the end of the confinement, Mr. Le Fur, but if I don't find an A frame at the head of the four municipal policemen, I'll be entitled to a year of pancakes paid by MP Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u118	With the cider!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u119	It is therefore an unfavorable opinion, for the same reason that I opposed Mrs Bono-Vandorme's amendment: I am quite prepared to discuss the number of agents, but it is necessary that a framework A manages the municipal police in order to ensure the link with the public prosecutor. So it's not against ruralism, but with it, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u120	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u121	I had tabled an amendment on the same subject, but obviously I arrived too late to defend it and it disappeared from the joint debate. I would just like to say that Title I is a tremendous recognition of the intervention capacities of municipal police, their prerogatives and their training. In rural areas, it is also a strong support for our farmers, who regularly face insecurity. Through these measures, we consolidate them where needs arise. It will also be a reinforcement for our gendarmerie. I therefore welcome this article and these amendments, while expressing my regret that I was unable to defend my amendment No 805.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u122	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u123	I would also like to welcome the integration of the rural guards into the scheme. It is extremely important, when talking about municipal police, especially in our countryside, to highlight their role as guardian of both citizens and rural areas, in complementarity with the gendarmes. You will allow me to be surprised, however, that we didn't think about it earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u124	It's been a long time since Gérard Collomb was Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u125	As far as EPCIs are concerned, the architecture is very different and it is surprising that they appear at the turn of an amendment. Why not, but here again, it seems to me to betray some impreparation. An impact assessment and advice from the Council of State would have allowed you to ask these questions at the time of drafting this bill. For my part, I have no specific opinion on this issue of the EPCIs. I don't even know how many of them are able to engage in this experiment. In any event, it seems to me that we will have to ask ourselves, in the context of the law on engagement in local life and the proximity of the public action that we adopted at the initiative of Minister Lecornu, for which I voted, about the need for governance at the level of the EPCIs. The question of the division between the mayor's own powers and those that can be transferred to the EPCI will arise. With regard to the transmission of judicial documents, it will be necessary to know who is doing what.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u126	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u127	We will vote in favour of the Government's amendment, which is a good synthesis. I am surprised to hear some colleagues say that they do not understand how we have come to this, or regret that the rapporteurs have not prepared the text well enough. However, we accept amendments. When we do not adopt any of them, we are criticized; When we hold back, we're criticized too! Beyond that, the issue of rural guards was already addressed in the report by Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Alice Thourot. We are therefore also pleased, Mrs Ménard, that they are included in the scheme. With regard to the EPCI, referred to by our colleague Pascal Brindeau, it seems to me that the Internal Security Code already provides for provisions depending on whether municipal police officers are attached to the EPCI or to the municipalities, in which case they can then be pooled through conventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u128	Before we proceed to the vote, I will take a look at the amendments so that their authors can tell us whether they are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u129	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u130	As the minister has proposed to work on the threshold, I withdraw my amendment. I would simply like to add to the rapporteur's suggestion that I was not the recipient of the rural guards' e-mail: my gratitude was spontaneous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u131	Amendment No 1104 was withdrawn by the rapporteur. What about Amendments Nos 140 and 1232, which were identical to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u132	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u133	What about Amendment No 805?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u134	You considered that he was not defended, Mr. President, but Mr. Hammouche didn't have time to show up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u135	I'm sorry, but I explicitly asked twice if he was being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u136	[[Smile]] That said, I can take it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u137	I have before me two amendments, Nos 568 and 567, which can be presented together. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u138	In the absence of an impact assessment, we are somewhat impoverished to estimate the number of experiments you will be able to launch. It seems interesting to us to define a critical size. That is why, in addition to the number of municipal police officers, we would like to add a criterion relating to the population of the city. Amendment No 568 is therefore intended to set a threshold for 50,000 inhabitants, while Amendment No 567 proposes a threshold for 100,000 inhabitants. Although I am not sure that you share this analysis, it seemed interesting to us to study this issue. Perhaps you can dismiss it by indicating the arguments, which we currently lack, which lead you to make dependent the possibility of experimenting with the number of municipal police officers alone, without taking into account the critical size of the municipality or the public institution of intercommunal cooperation concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u140	The size of the city is not necessarily a relevant criterion. The only one, in terms of the number of inhabitants, is the threshold of 80000 inhabitants necessary to create a municipal police in the communes that can carry out mutualisations. We will return to that later in the text. Therefore, unfavorable views on both amendments. With regard to the criticism of the absence of an impact assessment and of the opinion of the Council of State, it seems to me that there is nothing to prevent us from improving the text together here at the sitting. I think that by listening to your arguments and trying to respond favourably to your proposals, we can change the bill between us, despite the lack of impact assessment and advice. Even if it is a pity, we can nevertheless improve the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u142	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u143	So I'm going to vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u144	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u145	Forgive me. You have the floor, Mr. Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u146	[[Smile]] I'm in a good mood. I'd like to stay in a good mood. I am not in favour of defining a threshold according to the size of the citiesJ or I am not in favour of the state being relieved of the local police mission to refer it to the mayors – we will have to be extremely vigilant on this point. If the municipalities were allowed to replace the state, the unity of security at the national level could be undermined: depending on where one lives, the means of the communities or the mayor's will, everyone would not have access to the same right to security. I also want to go back to the Government's amendment: to my knowledge, there are no communes or intercommunalities in which twenty rural guards operate under the authority of a framework A. In rural communes, even the secretary general is not framework A! This makes the opening that you demonstrated earlier in the debate inoperative: I voted for it, as a matter of principle, but it is inoperative. Finally, I would like to reassure my friend from France, who is unsuspecting: I am here to do the law, not to do my shopping. And I am trying to do so in a pragmatic way, with the aim of taking into account the reality of the rural world and ensuring, on these security issues, the presence of the safeguards to which we are, I believe, attached. The State must carry out its sovereign functions, in complementarity with municipal and rural police, which must ensure their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u147	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u148	Here we come to what I feared. Earlier, it was proposed to increase from twenty to four municipal police officers or rural guards, there it is proposed to define a threshold according to the size of the cities...This is what I called just to do its market! I do not know what will be retained by the Constitutional Council, but Mr Le Fur's argument was correct: in criminal and judicial matters, experimenting with the creation of different regimes in the territory is more critical than in other areas. Of course, since we do not have the opinion of the Council of State, we have no basis for assessing the constitutionality of this measure. I would also like to point out to Mr Le Fur and to all of our colleagues that on the day of the tabling of the text, President Mélenchon asked President Ferrand to refer the entire bill to the Council of State. This was refused to us for reasons of deadlines – we did not have the necessary two months to refer the matter to the Council of State. But we can't help it: it's the majority who decides the agenda! It is because you have precipitated things that we encounter lunar discussions from Article 1: why twenty and not four, and why there is a chief, or why there is none, why a municipality of 50,000 rather than a municipality of 100,000... [[Exclaims on various benches]] [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For people who say they have been working on their files for months, for a minister who says he has drawn his thoughts from the White Paper on Internal Security – which he may not have read himself, since the White Paper proposes that municipal police directors should have judicial qualifications in their own right and be able to conduct investigations, an idea which unfortunately is not found in the text – it is amateurism. In the end, what is this story? What are you doing? To please you! But there are judicial missions, reports of offences and offences that we are talking about: a little serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u149	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u150	Mr Minister, for reasons completely different from those of our colleague Bernalicis – of which I do not know whether he provides an impact assessment and refers the matter to the Council of State whenever he files a PLP...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u151	I did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u152	...we'll see next time, it'll be interesting! – I am also not in favour of the idea of defining a threshold, whether it is 50,000 or 100,000 inhabitants. Can you imagine the signal that it would send? For example, in my department, there is no single city with more than 50,000 inhabitants. However, the municipal police are indispensable in the security continuum. Another subject, on which I join Aude Bono-Vandorme: you yourself said it with great accuracy yesterday, Minister, to establish a municipal police force is a political act. In a municipal team, everyone knows that there are a number of things that happen every day, and that we cannot ask the national police and the gendarmerie everything: to say that we want municipal police is therefore a political act. You have committed yourself to come back to the issue, but I invite you to think again about this threshold story: it is important, because it is a major signal sent to all municipalities that have less than twenty municipal police officers. In Eure-et-Loir, only two municipalities have more: Chartres and Dreux. The rest, nothing! Yet we have been making efforts over the past few years. On the other hand, I agree with you that supervision must be provided by Category A executives, so that the offers of services fall perfectly within the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u153	Maybe that's the solution...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u154	[[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] Again, ladies and gentlemen, imagine how the territories will react if we limit ourselves to cities with more than 50,000 or even 100,000 inhabitants: some of them will feel a little abandoned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u155	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u156	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u157	I was bouncing on the argument of Mr Jumel, who said that he was not aware of a commune or intercommunality where twenty rural guards were in charge. It is true, with one exception: the sixty rural guards of the Haut-Rhin organized themselves as a departmental union. Unfortunately, the drafting of the article will deprive the trade union of the opportunity to dispose of these prerogatives. Indeed, it is not an EPCI with its own taxation, but a mixed union in which the department is represented, with almost all the municipalities benefiting from its services for the monitoring of sensitive natural areas. Limiting the text to the sole possibility of entrusting the prerogatives to an EPCI with own taxation is therefore a first problem since, in the present case, a mixed union could also have benefited from this competence. We will certainly return to the country guards, so I will not dwell on the subject. In view of the problems we face, the status of the rural guard nevertheless seems to me quite modern and particularly topical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u158	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u159	Except that there is only one category of field guards, category C – neither category B nor category A. That's too bad. It might be interesting to create them, even if it's only in a niche, in the Upper Rhine. This would allow the union to be headed by an A manager from the industry rather than an A manager from the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u160	It will no longer be the rural guard, but the rural general!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u161	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u162	You will no doubt have understood that these were appeal amendments: not knowing how many communes would be able to participate in the experiment, we would have liked to have obtained the information, which we found nowhere. I withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u163	Amendment No 644 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u164	I have before me two amendments, No 561 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and No 393 by Mr Ian Boucard, which may be submitted to a joint debate. They're both defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u165	I have before me three amendments, No 1103 corrected, 1233 corrected and 319 subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 1103 corrected and 1233 corrected are identical. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1103 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u166	The aim of this amendment, which I was talking about at the moment, is to incorporate into the experiment provided for in Article 1e r the municipalities which jointly employ at least 20 municipal police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u167	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 1233 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u168	The aim is to allow municipalities with a population of less than 80000 to apply to be part of the experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u169	I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u170	We want to allow the municipalities which, taken individually, do not reach the number of 20 municipal police officers, to merge, collaborate and agree in order to reach this threshold and thus be eligible for experimentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u171	What is the committee's opinion on this last amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u172	I agree with the idea of opening up the field of experimentation. That is why we have tabled amendments to include EPCIs and municipalities that have opted for mutualisation. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u174	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u175	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mr Mazars?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u176	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u177	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u178	I agree with the aim pursued by the authors of these amendments, but there is a drafting problem in view of the Government's amendment No. 1353 which we have just adopted. It is necessary to talk about communes and intercommunalities, because the twenty agents in question can be communal or intercommunal. In this case, the total number of municipal staff may be less than 20 when this threshold is reached or exceeded taking into account intercommunal agents. With regard to the mutualization of municipal police officers, EPCIs should be added by means of an amendment, perhaps at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u179	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u180	The discussion is still quite extraordinary! We have just introduced a threshold of less than 80000 inhabitants after we have been told that the introduction of a threshold would make no sense. Finally, municipalities of less than 80000 inhabitants could pool the agents without them being agents of intercommunality, but still a director would be needed. What the hell is this? What do you use to decide all this? At first glance, you have only one municipality in your constituency where, in your opinion, it would be interesting for municipal police officers to be able to identify offences. What is the current situation? Is a municipal police officer who finds an offence outside the scope of his original prerogatives disarmed and powerless to act? Of course not! Like any citizen, he may act under article 73 of the Code of Criminal Procedure when he is a witness to an offence or an offence. He can question the person – don't do it yourself: professionals are there for that. In any event, the municipal police officer can act and forward the case to the nearest judicial police officer, who will inform the prosecutor who will decide on the action to be taken. Here's the current circuit. And you, you're launching a scalable race to decide who can do the experiment and short-circuit the ordinary procedure by going directly to the prosecutor's office. Moreover, it would be interesting to know what the prosecutors thought, because they would not necessarily agree. In any case, this debate is lunar. By all means, we seek to make the bidule commune or the town machin eligible for an experiment that has no meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u181	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u182	Mr. Bernalicis, I am going to assume that in good faith you do not understand what we hope to do – we may speak badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u183	No doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u184	In view of the explanations given by the rapporteur and myself since yesterday, we can also put forward another hypothesis: you are only trying to delay the debate, which is another parliamentary technique.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u185	It's a hypothesis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u186	The threshold of 80000 inhabitants has nothing to do with experimentation. If you read the bill, you will see that section 1 deals with experimentation. Irrespective of Mr Fauvergue's and Mrs Thourot's proposal for a law, there is now a threshold for municipalities wishing to create an intercommunal police force: this is possible between several municipalities with 80000 inhabitants or less; it is not possible for municipalities that exceed this threshold. That is the threshold that the text proposes to delete. Article 1 deals with the conditions for entry into the experiment proposed in this text and announced by the Prime Minister in Nice. He answers the following question: how to recover additional police powers, in the context of a three-year experiment, when there are at least twenty municipal police officers – or now rural guards – and a service manager, of a framework level A, to transmit the reports to the public prosecutor? When you mix cabbages and carrots, you probably get a very good soup but, in fact, it's not very legible. Put the cabbages on one side, the carrots on the other. Read the bill again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u187	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u188	Don't worry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u189	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u190	...it's going to be fine even if we may have other misunderstandings. You assume that this is all confused, but I think it's your mind that is a little confused.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u191	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u192	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u193	I am aware that my speech may seem a little cavalier, but given the turn of the debate, let's go to the end: I tried to table a sub-amendment to introduce the rural guards there too. Let us be consistent: we cannot count them in one device and not in the other. It's becoming unreadable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u194	And inconsistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u195	We are more in favour of this amendment by the rapporteur, so let us complete it. My sub-amendment is very simple: validate it, let us adopt it and move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u196	I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 320.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u197	It is close enough to the one previously presented by our colleague Le Fur to make a municipality eligible for experimentation even if it does not have twenty municipal police officers. For my part, I add a condition: this commune would be a capital of department, therefore having sufficient financial capacity to have a Category A manager at the head of this municipal police. In this way, we could circumvent the problem raised by the Government. Noting a willingness to move forward on this subject, Mr Le Fur withdrew his amendment. If I too get this commitment from the Government, I will do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u199	We have already opened the experiment to the EPCIs and included the rural guards. I will ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will be sorry to have to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u201	The opinion is unfavourable, because we will have this debate on the gauge. We must take into account the differences between communities – not to mention the smallest municipalities, I hear it a thousand times. The number of municipal police officers or rural guards ultimately does not matter: what matters is their professionalism and the manner in which they are supervised – hence the importance attached to the fact that the director or head of department is a Category A executive. I told Mrs Bono-Vandorme and Mr Le Fur, I'm ready to look at this. However, I would point out that section 1 refers to a decree. The law lays down the criteria which will allow the Minister of the Interior to issue a decree which will select the municipalities involved in the experiment. If everything is general and experimental, then nothing is. I understand the debate on the gauge and your concerns about the communes you represent. In agreement with the rapporteurs and with the Senate, I am prepared to be flexible. However, I believe that basing myself on the status of the city would not be of great interest, and that we must bear in mind the quality of the reports to be transmitted to the public prosecutor. To experiment too much and to generalize, we will get bad results. Mr Bernalicis will then tell us: see, the reports were not good and it was not possible to prosecute when some cases could have given rise to criminal qualifications. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, pending an exchange of views on this subject during the shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u202	I call Mr Buon Tan to support Amendment No. 1276.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u203	It aims to enable the future municipal police in Paris to participate in this experiment. The text provides that the implementing measures necessary for the implementation of the experiment must be taken by 30 June 2021 at the latest. However, the Paris municipal police can only be created after the adoption of article 4. It will take time to create, recruit and train officers. So we may not be able to be ready until June 30, 2021. That is why I propose an extension of the deadline for Paris, in order to allow the capital to stand for experimentation until 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u205	Dear colleague, I understand your desire to participate in the experiment as soon as possible. We hope that the adoption of Article 4 will allow the creation of the Paris municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u206	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u207	I am against your amendment, because the Government has set the deadline of 30 June 2021 for implementing measures related to testing. Paris will have the opportunity to participate in this experiment once its municipal police force has been created.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u210	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u211	It will indeed be necessary to review the criteria and the gauge, since it is important to have qualified persons and a municipal or equivalent police director who, in your circuit, will be responsible for the transmissions to the prosecutor's office. [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] See, minister, I can read – perhaps even better than you... ...because I also know how to find the flaws of your own text. No one here is fooled: this is your text, minister. You see it as such, which is quite interesting, given that it is presented to us as a bill. Could you give a slightly more precise criterion, since it is the Government that will choose the cities? I propose one: to retain the cities whose mayors are committed to supporting Emmanuel Macron in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u212	There won't be enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u213	It's the Republic of Friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It will be simpler, faster and more efficient. And it will be clearer for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u215	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u216	I understand the approach taken by our colleague Tan, who has a good feeling: to try to ensure that the capital is ready. Elected from Paris for some time, I point out that the creation of the Paris municipal police is one of the priorities of all Parisian elected officials, regardless of their bench – and, more recently, of the Mayor of Paris. This should not be an opportunity to further delay the deadline. The Paris Council has just debated this subject on the occasion of a topical issue. Everybody's waiting for this. I am therefore pleased that this text gives us the opportunity to create a municipal police force in Paris and to discuss its possible armament. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I thank the rapporteur for his very precise answer: the text that we are going to adopt will allow the City of Paris to create its municipal police and to be at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u217	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u218	I support this excellent amendment by Mr Tan. Like the rapporteur and our colleague Brigitte Kuster, I stress the need to create a municipal police force in Paris. We do not have a timetable since this creation is suspended from the adoption of this text, and then from the arrangements to be made by the mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo. Our colleague's amendment can help speed up the timetable and the creation of this municipal police, which all Parisians want. For my part, I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u219	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u220	As far as the City of Paris is concerned, in addition to the fact that I am not convinced that the municipality is willing to be part of the experiment – but let us not go back to that point – I believe that speed and precipitation should not be confused. That is why I agree with the rapporteur: perhaps it is better to take the time to properly install the future municipal police in order to avoid the protests that its creation could provoke. [[Applause on many benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Mr Bernalicis, you have the right to challenge all the amendments tabled. Everyone has understood your manoeuvre, which is to drag the examination of the text as far as possible: on your part, we are used to it! However, you could do this by showing some respect for stakeholders, and particularly for the minister: that would be the framework in which we work. What I find highly despicable, for my part, is your presence in this House, when you have been, since the beginning of the legislature, the greatest promoters of anti-flic hatred! That's what it says!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u221	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u222	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u223	I would like to obtain a clarification, Mr rapporteur: do we agree that, even if the time required for the creation of the Paris municipal police exceeds the deadline of 30 June 2021, Paris will be able to enter the experiment at a later date? Can you give a clear answer on this point? To reply to Mrs Kuster, we are obviously not trying to save time, on the contrary: I have even tabled an amendment aimed at advancing the date of creation of the Paris municipal police. Only we cannot issue an injunction to the Council of State, to which the decree establishing this police must be submitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u224	We could do it for the 13th arrondissement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u225	And for the 15th!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u226	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u227	It seems to me that you are taking the problem in the wrong direction. I understand your desire to see Paris set up a municipal police force. It will not have escaped you, however, that it is the mayor's decision. Let's not reverse things to put pressure on the municipality. I am speaking under the control of the minister and the minister delegated, but it does seem strange that the Parisian municipal police, once created, cannot participate in the experiment. However, I will let the Government answer you on this point. The order may need to be amended, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u228	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u229	First of all, the municipal police in Paris will be created, which will be a great step forward. In administrative terms, it is in any case a revolution that you are going to allow. Secondly, we respect the principle of the free administration of local authorities enshrined in article 72 of the Constitution. It will therefore be up to the Paris Council to create a municipal police force...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u230	Who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u231	... and to choose whether or not to arm it: this decision will be the choice of the elected representatives of Paris, which can be criticized politically, but which we cannot impose. I say this to the Members of the Republican Group: we will not oblige the municipalities of France to arm their police. I have my opinion: I believe that municipal police must be armed. However, we do not impose this rule on local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u232	A little wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u233	What would we not have heard, particularly from the members of the group? The Republicans, if we had imposed on the mayors a decision that they are free to make, with their municipal councils, to serve their people as they see fit? I shall therefore issue an opinion against any amendment to impose the arming of municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u234	That wouldn't be constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u235	Finally, if the Paris municipal police, once created, wished to be part of the experiment, the Mayor of Paris would send a letter to the Ministry of the Interior, which would decide on her application in accordance with the criteria laid down by law. Everything suggests that such a request, if submitted in a serious manner, as the Paris administration knows how to do, will be accepted. I must warn you, however, that it will not be for the moment: in view of the debate already under way on the arming of the Paris municipal police, when the latter is not yet created, formed or selected, I would be surprised if Mrs Hidalgo would ask that Paris be part of the experiment as soon as the law is promulgated. If, however, she were to do so, I would be happy to consider her request: the Paris municipal police, like all the others, will be able to benefit from the experiment if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u236	Even when we support a text, it cannot help attacking us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u237	It's his only way to exist...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u238	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u239	[[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This is a point of order for personal fact, which is based on Rule 58. I would not like to see a problematic climate in the House. But our colleague has described us as "greater propagators of anti-flic hatred," which is rather strange. First of all, the minister who sits on the bench calmly voted, when he was a Member of Parliament, to reduce the number of national police officers and gendarmes – but let's go: it was before, we forget! If there are some who do not like the cops here, they are rather on the benches of the Government than on those of the group La France insoubted, since on the contrary we proposed to hire 10000 additional staff at the Ministry of the Interior, including 5000 administrative staff to replace the officers assigned to administrative posts, 3000 national police officers and 2000 officers of the technical and scientific police. We do better, like "anti-flics"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u240	We weren't deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u241	We should give you an agenda!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u242	Please conclude, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u243	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is not a former official of the Ministry of the Interior who would defy this beautiful administration and this beautiful ministry. But unlike you, I am not in favour of us turning a blind eye to ethical misdemeanours, because it is about the confidence of the population in its police and therefore the authority of the police. You're against that authority, not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u244	I have before me three amendments, Nos 414, 145 and 415, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to support Amendment No. 414.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u245	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 415. With these amendments, I wish to replace the word 'communication' with the words 'a debate' or 'a vote': it seems to me necessary to ask the mayor of a commune which is a candidate for the performance of the functions of OPJ by its municipal police officers to open a debate with all the municipal councillors and to proceed to a vote. It would be a democratic precaution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u246	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u247	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u248	It is intended to replace the words "communication to" with the words "validation of". Although the choice to participate in the experiment is a matter for the mayor's police power, this decision must be voted on by the municipal council. This amendment is, in fact, editorial in nature: it is the democratic life of the commune and it makes every elected actor of the decisions taken. It therefore fulfils all the conditions for acceptance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u249	Amendment No 415 by Mrs Nathalie Porte has already been defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u250	[["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] I call for Amendments Nos 414 and 145 to be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 415, which is intended to submit to the debate of the municipal council the candidacy of a municipality for experimentation. Otherwise, I will deliver an unfavorable opinion on the first two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u252	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u253	The Government considers that it is the prerogative of the mayor or mayor to decide to submit his city's candidacy for such an experiment. However, you are right: democratic debate can take place in the city council. We therefore rely on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u254	I have before me two amendments, Nos 132 and 147, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u255	History will show that, in order to better protect them, we will one day arm all the municipal police officers of the major cities, including Paris. The amendment therefore aims to provide for training related to the use of weapons, in particular category B-1, in the initial training of municipal police officers, which would thus be even more professionalised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u256	There's no need for machine guns, Mr. Maillard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u257	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u258	It also aims to make training in the arming of municipal police officers compulsory as part of the experiment provided for in this bill. There are no easy, risk-free missions and others that would be difficult and dangerous: all must be considered potentially dangerous. The constant presence of the municipal police on the public highway, close to the population, inevitably leads to a potential danger for the police officers, who do not have the slightest notion of what can happen. A threat can occur at any time, through their mere presence on the public highway, during verbalization, family dispute or arrest – all that makes their daily lives. There is no shortage of examples. The intervention of Villiers-sur-Marne, which led to the death of police officer Aurélie Fouquet, was the very type of these unpredictable dangers: she and her patrol colleague did not know that they were dealing with a vehicle of robbers. They thought they were taking action to secure the place after a traffic accident; As soon as they approached, they found themselves under fire fed by attackers armed with shoulder weapons. The current context gives municipal police a new role and gives them a decisive position in the fight against terrorism: in addition to fighting against small and medium-sized crime, the municipal police are on the front line against terrorists who, more and more often, act in an unpredictable way, as shown by the beheading of Professor Samuel Paty in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine on 16 October 2020 or the assassination of three people at Notre-Dame Basilica in Nice on 29 October 2020. To help municipal police officers deal with increasingly dangerous criminals, this amendment aims to include in their initial training a module related to the use of weapons, particularly category B-1, so that police means can be coordinated in an optimal manner, for the benefit of our fellow citizens as well as police officers. The aim is to further professionalize municipal officials through this adapted training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u260	You're talking about the weapons training of the municipal police. I recall the principle that municipal police will only be armed if the mayor so decides. This is not exactly the position that Alice Thourot and I initially set out in our report – you may have noticed it, that is why I stress it – but this position has evolved, especially at the request of the mayors. This is the application of the principle of free administration by mayors, who will decide whether or not to use the powers that will be made available to them if this bill is adopted: this will be their responsibility. Thank you, Mrs. Thill, for referring to Aurélie Fouquet. I also want to pay tribute to Clarissa Jean-Philippe, the municipal police officer in Montrouge who was shot dead by a terrorist, and Pascal Filoé, who was the director of Rodez's municipal police – who is well known to our colleague Mazars. More specifically, with regard to the arming of the municipal police, I would point out that municipal police officers are undergoing a six-month training provided by the CNFPT – the national centre of the territorial civil service – with the exception of former gendarmes or police officers integrating a municipal police force, whose training has recently been reduced to three months, which seems logical in the light of the experience gained in their previous duties. Beyond this six-month training, any member of an armed police force undergoes additional training on armaments for ten full days. This duration may change. If an agent is also called upon to handle non-lethal weaponry – especially electrically pulsed pistols – he or she will take an additional ten days of training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u261	At present, this training is carried out in a very serious manner. My colleague Alice Thourot and I went to meet municipal police officers in different localities. I can assure you that in most cases, they train much more often than the gendarmes or even sometimes the national police, which should be noted. I believe that these two amendments are satisfactory and will therefore give an unfavorable opinion on both.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u263	As the rapporteur has explained very well, we believe that the decision whether or not to arm the municipal police must be taken by the mayors, so that not all municipal police will necessarily be armed. Therefore, it seems to us to be futile to include in the law the need for compulsory training for a skill that will not be available to all municipal police. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u264	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u265	This debate will continue throughout the consideration of this bill, since the issue of the carrying of weapons, including out of service, in establishments receiving from the public, comes up on several occasions. It is my duty to speak here to those who believe that no, the solution does not necessarily consist in arming more people throughout the country on the grounds that the threat would be permanent. I received at my office a small card on which is mentioned a petition in favour of the possibility for every citizen to hold a weapon, as in the United States, in the name of the arguments you just made – the threat is permanent, you never know, it could happen and I pass it. It does not seem healthy to me to go in this direction, because the main victims of firearms by police officers and police officers are the police officers themselves. In this occupation, the suffering at work is such that it is characterized by one of the highest suicide rates in France; and the majority of people who put an end to their days use their weapon of service. This should be an issue for us, and it should be an issue for you. This is not an annex or anecdotal debate. I adjure you to address this question in a reasonable and punctual manner. The members of the PSIG, the surveillance and gendarmerie platoons, classified as "Sabre", as well as the BAC, the anti-criminality brigade, were equipped with HK G36 assault rifles in the event of an attack by a terrorist armed with a weapon of war. According to the arbitration rendered at the time – with which I disagree, but no matter what – only these units could have such a weapon. We can understand that. Do you think the solution is to provide weapons of war to policemen everywhere? No, because carrying a weapon is not neutral, it's a real responsibility. In my opinion, we need fewer weapons in circulation in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u266	That's not the point at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u267	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u268	The discussion we have at the moment is quite worrying. Everyone understood that, in the long run, municipal police officers would be more numerous, that they would have much more prerogatives and that more and more of them – it is a certainty, no one here doubt – would be armed. However, I find it difficult to understand what is planned for their training in weapons handling. On the one hand, if I believe the content of certain amendments, no systematic arrangements are actually planned. On the other hand, you have some reassuring comments, Mr rapporteur and the minister delegate, which I have heard. But I would like to be absolutely certain that they correspond to reality. Indeed, how can we accept that municipal police officers can wear a weapon on the belt for which they would have received only a brief training of a few days or hours? This is not possible and we must be very clear in the provisions of the law on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u269	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u270	One of the major weaknesses of this text will remain the fact that the arming of municipal police has not been made mandatory – a provision that was provided for in your report, Mr. The Government has invoked the free administration of local and regional authorities, which I can understand. We could, however, have, as has been the case on many other issues, reversed the paradigm, i.e. made armament compulsory while allowing a mayor who would not be in favour of this measure and would justify his decision not to apply it. Secondly, with regard to financing, I would point out that there is a support fund at departmental level, the funds allocated by the prefecture are often used to finance video protection programmes but could also have been used for the arming of municipal police. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr Bruno Bilde also applauds]] Honestly, when we see what is happening in our country today, it is unreasonable and irresponsible to develop municipal police and give them more power without arming their agents. As a Member of Parliament for the Alpes-Maritimes, I can tell you that in Nice, if the municipal police had not been armed, trained and trained and had not intervened, the carnage of the 29 October attack would have been much more terrible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u271	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u272	That armed municipal police are already in a dynamic that allows them to be better trained than the gendarmerie or the national police, is what can reassure. However, if new municipal police are to be armed, it is our duty to ensure that pre-armament training is provided in a uniform manner, and above all that follow-up is in place. Indeed, you know, like me, Mr Fauvergue, that training in armaments is not comparable to a diploma that would be obtained and that would be sufficient to acquire everything. This requires training, the development of a memory of the gesture, a whole work that is known to be limited at present in units where training is compulsory. A very small number of those who are trained on a voluntary basis are trained adequately.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u273	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u274	However, we need guarantees in the face of an increase in the number of armed police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u275	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u276	Mr. Bernalicis says I want to arm people. That's not the case, far from it. I want to arm the municipal police, which is quite different. However, having, of course, explained by the rapporteur and the minister, whom I thank, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u277	Mrs Chill, do you also withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u278	No, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u279	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u280	I just want to go back to Mrs Chill's amendment. It simply provides for a newly recruited municipal police officer to be trained in shooting. On the other hand, I am opposed to the idea, developed by some colleagues, that the arming of municipal police officers should be imposed on communities. That must remain their prerogative. Mr rapporteur, you are well aware that a police officer must take part in three shooting sessions a year. Therefore, the introduction of mandatory fire training for all municipal police officers, while leaving it to the municipal council and the mayor whether or not to arm them, is not incompatible with initial training. If tomorrow, in a municipality, as a result of particular events in daily life, it was decided to arm policemen who had not been armed until then, they would have already received basic training and, as Mr. Son-Forget said, gained some knowledge of the gesture. This would not prevent them from receiving additional – and necessary – training under the CNFPT. In short, this amendment by Mr Chill does not eat bread.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u281	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u282	In our democracy, we must accept the free administration of local and regional authorities. It is therefore up to the mayors to decide whether or not to arm their municipal police. Thus, in Paris, the city of which I am a member, it is normal for Mrs Hidalgo and her team to decide as they were elected to create a municipal police force. On the other hand, and in response to the arguments I heard earlier, if I have acquired the conviction that it is necessary to arm municipal police officers, it is not only because, as has already been said, they are visible and a target for terrorists – we have unfortunately observed on many occasions – but also because in their daily work, even if they do not need a weapon, they can meet extremely dangerous and armed individuals. When they carry out checks, for example following a problem of nuisances, and when they find themselves confronted with armed gangs belonging to sometimes mafia networks, linked to banditry, pimping or drug trafficking, should they not defend themselves and the population? We need to get out of ideological postures and apply a principle of reality. Let us leave to the mayors their responsibility. They make decisions based on the characteristics of their territory, its sociology. But in today's society, training in armaments seems indispensable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u283	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u284	Colleagues, I may have misspoked myself or misunderstood me. In the name of the free administration of local authorities, it is the mayor who will decide whether or not to arm the municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u285	You weren't convinced at first!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u286	Initially, we were not in favour of this idea, but we went back to our position in response to the requests that were made. As you know, mayors want to exercise their power, which is understandable. That is why we have evolved on this point. With regard to the training of municipal police officers in armaments, I have told you that this is an additional training provided by the CNFPT. I have failed to mention that there are twelve schools throughout France, which share the same curriculum, with trainers running from one structure to the next. Training is therefore mandatory, logical and unified. On the other hand, armed municipal police officers have an obligation to participate in several shooting training sessions – which I have already said are often more numerous than those of the national police or the national gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u287	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u288	I agree with what the rapporteur has just said. By listening to our debate and the speeches of some speakers, some might imagine that we intend to equip municipal police officers with a weapon, but that they could wear it to the belt without any training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u289	People aren't that stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u290	I would therefore like to point out that there is mandatory training provided by the CNFPT, as several Members have said, but also that a medical certificate is required and that municipal police officers must take a number of hours of shooting training, not only in initial training but also in continuing training. They have to pull the equivalent of fifty cartridges a year – a high figure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u291	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u292	It is therefore wrong to say that municipal police officers do not receive any training. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u293	I have before me two amendments, Nos 125 and 1314, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u294	It imposes two conditions on the arming of municipal police officers, in the case of category B-1 weapons, i.e. identical to those currently used by the gendarmes or by national police officers: an examination of psychological fitness for carrying weapons and an obligation to obtain a medical certificate, as is the case with national police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u295	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support Amendment No. 1314.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u296	This amendment, which perhaps responds to Mr Bernalicis' questions about the mental health of armed police officers, is in line with that of our colleague Maillard. It would be desirable to include in the law the fact that the psychological fitness of an agent must be confirmed by an expert, in addition to the issuance of a medical certificate of fitness concerning the carrying and possession of a weapon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u298	These amendments are satisfied by Article R. 511-18 of the Code of Internal Security. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u300	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u301	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u302	I would also like to point out that such an audit is already planned – and fortunately. However, I am troubled by the content of our debates, which suggests that municipal police officers would be worth less than national police officers. But they carry out equally dangerous missions, receive equivalent training and, when we refer to the shooting exercise, the subject of the previous amendments, what I have heard is amazing because I am betting that most are much more trained and know how to pull much better than the national police. In fact, they train under conditions that seem questionable to me: a shooting stand at 25 meters to fire fifty rounds a year, that doesn't make you someone who knows how to handle his weapon, a good shooter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u303	They're live targets!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u304	This would require operational training. And it is not before the former boss of RAID – Research, assistance, intervention, deterrence – that I will expand on the subject. Secondly, even if mayors no longer have the right to sit in the House, we must be aware that they are not irresponsible people. When they arm their municipal police – and this must continue to be their choice, because it is their criminal responsibility that is at stake – they obviously form them. Monitoring must be the same for the national police and for the municipal police. But, I insist, I am embarrassed by this almost permanent speech that municipal police should be monitored even more, as if what is offered to the national police as training and accompaniment was an example to be given – I am not sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u305	Mr. Maillard tells me that his amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u306	What about yours, Mr. Son-Forget?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u307	If my amendment is satisfied, I agree to withdraw it. However, I would like to reply to the minister, who considers that fifty cartridges per year are a lot of... All the police officers who listen to us must laugh at each other! You can shoot them in ten minutes, these fifty cartridges, that's ridiculous! So that most police officers train extra with their own means as sports shooters. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u308	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 3, 418 and 1273. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u309	It is intended to delete paragraph 3, which provides that "a joint order of the Ministers of the Interior and of the Justice shall determine the municipalities authorized to implement the experiment" provided for in paragraph 1. You said in committee on 4 November last, Mr rapporteur, that the criteria that would be adopted to determine which communes will be chosen for the experiment still need to be clarified. You mentioned as criteria the state of delinquency in the commune, the maturity of the municipal police or the quality of its interaction with the internal security forces, but also the need to have the approval of the prosecutor's office. On the contrary, it seems to me that the implementation of the experiment must be as wide as possible, in order to produce real results which can guarantee the success of the experiment. Therefore, making a selection among the municipalities does not necessarily seem relevant to me. To provide that the list of municipalities chosen for the experiment will be drawn up by a joint decree of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior carries the risk that many municipalities will be excluded from it. I see there, if you allow me, a major contradiction with the very spirit of experimentation which, precisely, has the merit of wanting to have more confidence in the municipalities by giving them the opportunity to strengthen their municipal police. To trust is above all to finally regain the sense of communal freedoms and to allow the mayors themselves to decide to participate in the experiment since they are the continuity of the State, as can be seen from the intervention of the Minister of the Interior during the general discussion. You will return their letters of nobility to the local freedoms that have made France rich and diverse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u310	Identical amendments Nos 418 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 1273 by Mr Arnaud Viala are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u311	The local circumstances will be taken into account, Mrs Ménard, once the criteria for experimentation, which we have just defined and whose content we have just enriched, are finally set by the Ministry of the Interior. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u313	In view of the importance of the new powers which will be assigned in this context, particularly in the field of judicial police, we believe that it is necessary for the Ministers of the Interior and of Justice, with the possible opinion of the prefect and the prosecutor with territorial competence in this field, to have a right of control over the municipalities involved in the experiment – in particular with regard to the organisation of local cooperation between their departments and the State security forces or in the light of local crime. That is why the Government is opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u314	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u315	You have an interpretation of article 72 of the Constitution with varying geometry: you let mayors decide whether to arm their policemen or not, but when it comes to experimentation, it must be the executive that examines, according to scholarly criteria – the state of delinquency, etc. –, which means that a mayor who refuses to arm his municipal police and participate in the experiment even though his municipality would satisfy the criteria set by the executive would eventually be pointed out as irresponsible. The string is too big! It is in any case of the same nature as those you use permanently. All we can see with the way in which Article 1 is drafted and the fact that we do not accept such amendments is that you are going to introduce a clientelist mode of operation, point. I therefore encourage you, Mrs Ménard, to invite you to vote for Emmanuel Macron in 2022: you will see that your municipality will be able to join the scheme much faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u316	He's a talking specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u317	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u318	As the criteria are not well defined, the decision is left to the ministers of the interior and justice, the prosecutor and the prefect, instead of the principle of the free administration of the communes. I would point out that the scheme is already very limited: it concerns the cities which employ at least twenty municipal police officers, which is not nothing. I regret that the planned experiment is not wider.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u319	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u320	She's been here before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u321	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u322	I can only agree with what Mr Diard has said. The objective criteria are already laid down in paragraph 1 of the article. The municipalities concerned are those employing at least 20 municipal police officers, including at least one director or head of department. On this basis, it is stated that the mayor is free to participate or not to participate in the experiment. And yet, even if the municipality meets the criteria, even if the mayor decides to participate in the experiment, the final decision will not belong to him. It's taking the risk of throwing away suspicion, fuelling the idea of an à la carte experiment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u323	It's not a risk, it's a certainty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u324	... to the will of the Government: such mayor has been sympathetic, good student, very well; Such another has taken positions that we do not like, so we will remove it from the experiment. It's a shame and not very satisfying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u325	Mrs Alice Thourot, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u326	Why a joint order of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice? You have understood this: the experiment involves a transmission to the prosecutor's office by the head of the municipal police, which requires the Ministry of the Interior to organize itself with the Ministry of Justice. So this joint decree has nothing to do with any feeling of suspicion. The committee is against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u327	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u328	The purpose of this amendment is to reverse the logic of paragraph 2, so that it is not for the ministries to decide who has the right or not to set up the experiment, but for the communes themselves to vote in the municipal council and to ask for it. In fact, it is logical for the mayors to judge whether or not they want to apply this mechanism, because they are most in a position to appreciate its merits – the ministries of the interior and justice being, you will agree, a little further away from the local realities. I repeat, the danger is to make it an à la carte experiment. I had the opportunity to mention in committee the experiment decided in December 2018 by Minister Castaner for the access of the municipal police to the registration file of vehicles and driving licences, extended to only eleven communes. Therefore, the experiment did not yield much results; Several of the 11 municipalities did not have access to the file. If the choice of a municipality depends on the willingness of a minister, it may still create inequalities. I find that a pity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u330	I'll give you a counter-example: that of the cameras. Their use was tested before being generalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u331	They're useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u332	We hope that the experiment we are putting in place can be generalized if it is successful. Unfavorable opinion, as with previous amendments along the same lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u334	Opinions were also unfavourable. I cannot help but point out that on the right as well as on the left, you have, forgive me, a curious way of understanding the way in which partnership work is going between the state and the communities. Why do you assume that there would necessarily be blur, copling,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u335	Of course... it certainly doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u336	... any hidden manipulation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u337	We're talking about experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u338	Not at all: a prefect's opinion, a judicial opinion will be delivered. And, since these are important prerogatives, the Ministry of the Interior will give an opinion, based on all the criteria we have discussed at length here, on whether it is appropriate to entrust this important mission to a particular community in the context of this experiment. This is very simple and very transparent, since the criteria are voted on here democratically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u339	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u340	I hear a positive note in our debates: the experiment has not yet been approved that it is already a success. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u341	[[Smile]] What enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u342	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u343	What the Deputy Minister has just said is very interesting, because we might indeed ask ourselves on what basis there could be local arrangements for the implementation of the provisions that we have voted on here. I will take an example, which may explain why the list of municipalities authorised to implement the experiment is determined by a joint decree of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] A few months ago, it was planned to redraw the judicial map of the investigating judges. In this context, there have been exchanges of e-mails between Nicole Belloubet's office and that of the Prime Minister, aimed at eliminating investigating judges in cities where the Republic is running would not make good scores in municipal elections. The documents are at your disposal, since they were recovered by the committee of inquiry into the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, a commission which I chaired. Scalded cat fears cold water. Also, Madam Deputy Minister, to others! Yes, we have reason to fear your behavior; No, you do not behave republicanly and in accordance with the general interest in many situations, and a fortiori in the present situation, since it is a matter of giving prerogatives of judicial police to certain communes, which is not anecdotal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u344	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u345	I did not use the terms "fuzzy" or "coping", Madam Deputy Minister; I therefore leave you with responsibility for the vocabulary you use.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u346	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u347	I go back to the example of municipal police having access to the vehicle registration file and driving licences. Many communes had asked to benefit, and only eleven were selected, causing a great deal of frustration. I take another example, which has absolutely nothing to do with security: you know that under the Pinel scheme, some communes classified in zone B2 wanted to be reclassified to zone B1, which had drawn the attention of the minister responsible for town and housing, then Julien Denormandie; But only two cities, Angers and Poitiers, were retained; the other ten have been ruled out. You see, therefore, that if we do not use objective criteria determined by law, as is the case here, and if, in addition, we submit this experiment to the will of the departments, it creates frustration and suspicion, which is not a good thing, especially in terms of security. But your experiment – I agree with the rapporteur, Mrs Thourot – is very much expected, not only by the municipal police but also by the forces of the national police and the gendarmerie, because for those who are understaffed, a real partnership with municipal police with reinforced prerogatives can only be positive. Once again, in many communes, this partnership between the various security forces already exists and works very well: it only needs to be strengthened within the framework of Article 1, which is a good article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u348	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u349	I am reacting because I do not like to mix this side of the House with the side opposite. Let me summarize our position, Madam Deputy Minister. We believe that the right to security is a fundamental right and so much so that we consider it a sovereign function of the State, for a single and indivisible Republic: this access to the right must be equal regardless of the place of the national territory in which one lives. Perhaps this principle shockes you. That is why I am generally opposed to experiments, whose experience tells us that attribution is often based on criteria of political planning of the territory. We are not losers of the year, we know what guides choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u350	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u351	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Even more serious: if we do not take care of this transfer of regal functions from the State to the municipal police, the experiment risks turning you from the Republic to the Republic into crumbs, that is to say, an unequal access to the fundamental right of security. It's our fracture line. The rapporteur has, moreover, had the honesty to acknowledge this, stressing that the objective is obviously to transfer the competence of local police to the municipalities. Except that the municipalities do not all have the same financial means to implement this fundamental right which, I repeat, must be equal wherever one lives in the territory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u352	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u353	I do not wish to argue: a joint order of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice does not pose any problem to me, because of the powers that will be vested, but there is a negative incompetence of the House, which does not determine the criteria that will govern the choice of the voluntary communes. That, as the amendment proposes, the municipalities, if they meet the conditions listed in the first subparagraph, would satisfy such a requirement. It is up to the legislator to establish the criteria guaranteeing the impartiality of this choice, as was done in the case of the trial of courts of appeal and courts of assize, for which the law has identified the courts that would enter it. It seems to me that you have to define the criteria for the choices that will be made, because they are the responsibility of the legislator – perhaps you will have the opportunity to specify them in the framework of the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u354	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u355	We are in constant dialogue with the associations of mayors, as with the Association des petites villes de France – APVF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u356	It's the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u357	Mayors do not want a decision to be made in their place whether or not the municipal police will be armed; On the contrary, all associations of elected representatives want the decision to belong to the mayors and no one else. Secondly, with regard to the criteria, the State would no doubt like a number of communes, which are exemplary in this area, to apply. However, mayors may choose not to run.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u358	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u359	On the other hand, municipal councils will apply and a choice will have to be made according to the criteria to be determined. This is therefore not the same as for the courts, since justice is under the authority of the State, whereas this is a dialogue between elected officials, mayors, municipal councils and the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u360	That doesn't answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u361	Can we have a list of municipalities that are not exemplary?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u362	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u363	Mrs Untermaier, in an attempt to reassure you, the fact that the prefect and the prosecutor can issue an opinion seems to us to be necessary in view of the transfer of powers involved. The process of a joint decision of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice consists of obtaining technical advice: the prefect, who knows the territory, and the public prosecutor, will be able to inform us about the municipal police that will be able to absorb new skills. It is not a question of allowing political treatment but of receiving technical advice. Mr Jumel, if I obviously share the principles of equality of the territories and equal distribution of the means of security, I believe, unlike you, that they will be guaranteed by the methods of experimentation, because all the applications will be centralised and, among the criteria of the Ministries of Interior and Justice, will include the equal distribution, the territorial grid and the presence of the municipal police on all the territories which will make the request. This should therefore be a guarantee for you as to the objective we share. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, Mr Bernalicis, I do not allow you to say that we would not have a republican attitude; We have no lesson in republican attitude to receive from anyone and, pardon me, singularly from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u364	Do you have any facts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u365	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At the Ministry of the Interior, we have already demonstrated that we are working with all the mayors, regardless of their political colour, of Natacha Bouchart, the excellent mayor LR de Calais, to Mr Delafosse, the excellent socialist mayor of Montpellier with whom we are working on the key issues of secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u366	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 810.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u367	The explosion of the figures of insecurity and the constant decrease in the resources allocated to the national police...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u368	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u369	...have made it necessary to increase the power of municipal police. The mayor is the local authority that can provide quick responses to daily offences. It is more important than ever to reconsider the tasks of the mayor and his municipal police without falling into the angelism that has too often prevailed. The establishment of an experiment allowing municipal police to have several judicial police powers is therefore, on principle, a positive one, but in order for an objective assessment to be drawn from this experiment, the latter should be expanded by allowing as many municipalities as possible to participate in the experimental scheme. It is not a question of turning the mayor and the municipal police into local sheriffs, but of providing daily responses in the area of insecurity. The aim of this amendment is to expand the possibilities for setting up the experiment by deleting the words "in the light of local circumstances".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u371	The concept of "local circumstances" is well known in administrative law: it is used on several occasions in the Code of Internal Security. In this case, it is understood that it can cover the state of delinquency in particular. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u373	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u374	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u375	"Local circumstances" have been taken into consideration in other contexts, for example for the investigating judges, which I mentioned earlier. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam Deputy Minister, unlike you, I am basing myself on facts. When you say I won't be a Republican – "Especially you, Mr. Bernalicis! –, go ahead, specify! Develop. Explain to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u376	Mr. Bernalicis, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u377	I'm taking your explanations. Why am I saying you don't have a Republican attitude? The Republic is the common one: yet, having chosen to abolish the offices of investigating judge according to the electoral results, you have pursued particular interests, unlike what the Republic is. Of course, it wasn't you, it wasn't your ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u378	Stop the circus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u379	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Here, the orders will be joint to the ministries of justice and the interior: but I am not sure that with the new guard of the seals we are less in copying. I'm saying that, I'm not saying anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u380	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 569.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u381	In the assistance of the most faithful to the spirit of the Republic, this amendment should be unanimous. When choosing an experiment, it is, as a matter of principle, because it has been considered that generalisation is not necessary from the outset, which it is probably complex to implement. We believe it is necessary to secure this experiment: that is why, with this amendment inspired by Mrs Untermaier, we would like to see the appointment of a deontologist to monitor the loyalty and independence of the procedures carried out by the municipal police officers for the municipalities benefiting from the experiment. This proposal would have two virtues: first, it would be a way of protecting municipal police officers; It would seem to us, then, a wise precaution for a very simple reason already mentioned by some here, like our colleague who was talking about sheriffs: no one wants the municipal police to become the mayor's police. The deontologist would avoid this drift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u383	I am somewhat embarrassed by this proposal, which can be interpreted as a sign of suspicion. In general, when one introduces suspicion, one hastens to say that it is for the good of the public servants – the public servants that one suspects. On the other hand, the granting of more powers, not to municipal police officers, but to municipal chiefs of police or security directors, who have received them after having passed an examination and have been empowered both by the public prosecutor and the public prosecutor, must be accompanied by stronger control. Most of the powers that we are going to give to municipal police officers are lump-sum powers, but the lump-sum fine will be transmitted directly by electronic means to the services of Rennes, where judges will be able to control, in particular, criminal fines. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u384	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u385	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u386	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u387	I will have the opportunity, when voting on the article, to present in more detail the reasons for our caution, not on the article itself, but on the evolution in our country of unequal treatment of the population in terms of public security. Whatever you say, I'm afraid we're going to a two-speed police, one for the rich, the other for the poor, depending on the ability of cities to have a municipal police – I'll come back to that point. If I support the amendment tabled by Mr Saulignac, it is that the extension of the powers of the municipal police, even if it would be on an experimental basis, raises the question of public freedoms – and that is the case with all matters related to security. The proposal to appoint a deontologist to accompany the experiment is, in my view, not a sign of suspicion, but rather a guarantee. I will take an example in my constituency. I was led to write to a mayor about two municipal police officers – it's not much, but it's still two representatives of the police – who ostensibly wore on their uniform a badge bearing the inscription: "God will judge our enemies, we will arrange the meeting. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u388	This is a special case, we must not generalize!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u389	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Do I need to point out that such a message is not consistent with the expected neutrality of public service agents? I'm sure you're guessing the ideas in this way. To provide for the intervention of a deontologist and the wearing of regulations, to require the behaviour of municipal police officers at all levels, are requirements that go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u390	But there's still a hierarchy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u391	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u392	I confess to you, Mr rapporteur, that I had some doubts about your answer. And yet she amazes me! Did the appointment of a deontologist in the National Assembly mean that the deputies were all considered suspects?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u393	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u394	I don't believe it. If we have decided to appoint a deontologist to the National Assembly, it is because we believe that transparency is necessary for our citizens and that it is useful to secure the conditions for the exercise of our mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u395	It wasn't a success of the socialists at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u396	The same spirit inspired this amendment. The deputies of the Socialist and Related Group believe that the strengthening of the municipal police in its prerogatives is a very important turning point. Don't neglect him! Public security is first and foremost the security of the Republic. If we propose to appoint a deontologist to ensure the conditions for the exercise of the municipal police, it is that we want to secure the experiment and protect ourselves against any drift. That is the meaning of this amendment, which shows no suspicion against anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u397	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u398	Our colleagues in the Socialist and related group seem particularly suspicious of the new organization of the municipal police. In the past, however, some socialist mayors were not as opposed to the reorganization of their municipal police: they armed the agents without resorting to deontologists! We cannot compare the deontologist of the National Assembly with the deontologist you propose, Mr. Saulignac. Or, then, why not also propose the designation of deontologists in the communes to secure the conditions for the exercise of the mandates of mayor and deputy mayor? With regard to the control of in-house experimentation, I recall that it will be twofold: the judiciary, under the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, will supervise police officers, directors and heads of municipal police services; In addition, an amendment was adopted in committee to Article 6b in order to improve the administrative control of officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u399	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u400	I, too, believe that the appointment of a deontologist shows some mistrust of the municipal police. I am not worried, however: time will do its work. In 2001, when I was mayor of Sausset-les-Pins, I had armed the municipal police and set up video surveillance. The controversy had been very lively at the time. In these measures we saw the return of the occupation and the willingness to monitor the admins! Today, in my constituency, it is the cities on the left that have the most sophisticated video protection devices! I'm confident for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u401	[[Smile]] Oh, liberticides!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u402	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u403	I recall, in order to remove any confusion, that the tasks of the State and the mayor are different: public security is the first; the public tranquillity of the second. Both have different skills as well. I would also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the text proposes a clarification of each other's missions and does not at any time allow municipal police officers to carry out investigative acts. There is therefore no confusion in the missions, but rather a clarification of the place and role of each. The amendment proposes to impose on the municipalities which will benefit from the experiment the designation of a deontologist, but this experiment, let us recall, concerns the sale by saviour, the driving without a licence, the driving without insurance and the use of narcotics, i.e. offences which, by nature, do not require the control of a deontologist. We therefore maintain our unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u404	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u405	It aims to reduce the time frame within which the municipalities will submit the evaluation report on the experiment to the Government, as well as the time frame within which the Government will submit the general evaluation report to Parliament. The sooner a balance sheet will be drawn from the experiment, the sooner it can be extended, if necessary, to municipalities which have not had the chance to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u406	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u407	Your amendment aims to ensure that the Government's general evaluation report on experimentation is given three months, instead of six months, before the end of the experiment. I am not in favour of this: the current wording seems to me to be more operational if we want to generalise the experiment. If successful, a certain amount of time will be required to dispose of the evaluation report. This is why a period of six months before the end of the experiment has been set.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u408	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1174.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u409	It provides for the provision to Parliament of the communal evaluation reports annexed to the general report submitted by the Government. The legislator will thus be able to benefit from an overall view of the difficulties and possible improvements in experimentation, particularly in view of the diversity of the situations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u410	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u411	This amendment will enable Parliament to obtain a clearer picture of the results of the experiment at local level. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u412	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u413	The aim of greater transparency is commendable, but we are concerned that the proposed measure will increase the work of preparing the report. We rely on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u414	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u415	The evaluation of public policies, particularly security policies, is, to say the least, problematic in France. Over the past 15 years, dozens of laws have been passed without any serious assessment. We stressed earlier the need to put an end to the experimentation of the use of pediment cameras by the municipal police in order to enshrine it in law. This experiment was the subject of an evaluation report by the Ministry of the Interior of eight pages: two pages to recall the legislative framework in which the experiment took place, two pages presenting the list of municipalities concerned, only two pages for the testimony – generally positive – of mayors and municipal police officers! However, France has many scientists and researchers specializing in the humanities and social sciences. We should be able to rely on real evaluations. What is the purpose of the statutory requirement to submit an evaluation report to Parliament if, at the end, it turns into an eight-page thing, which makes it impossible to form an opinion because it does not provide anything? In addition, you have just abolished the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice. However, he could have played an important role in the evaluation we are talking about. You are not able to provide us with detailed reports and offer us a real evaluation of the experiments being carried out. At the outset, no impact studies and opinions of the Council of State accompany the experiment planned for the municipal police; downstream, there is no serious evidence to shed light on: I am therefore opposed to this experiment. When it's over, if you're still in power – I hope you won't be here anymore! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u416	Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u417	... you will come back to tell us, on the basis of nothing, that the experiment was generally positive: circulate, there is nothing to see: we must vote! Well, it'll be without us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u418	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u419	I have a doubt about this amendment: it is certainly positive that the communal evaluation reports should be annexed to the general evaluation report, but it will in fact depend on the number of communes chosen for the experiment. We come back to the discussion earlier: how will these communes be chosen? If they are only ten, it is possible to annex the communal evaluation reports to the general report. On the other hand, if they are two hundred – I wish, because we need as much experimentation as possible – it will be more complicated. In short, this amendment is double-edged.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u420	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 1030.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u421	It also concerns the evaluation report. We talked about municipal police and communes, but not prosecutors. I can testify, as a lawyer, to the overloading of the bars of Avignon and Carpentras. The minutes drawn up by the municipal police officers will now be forwarded to the prosecutor, whose task is already very heavy. Could the report submitted by the Government to Parliament also present the effects of the experiment on the work of the public prosecutor's offices?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u422	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u423	The new powers given under the proposed law largely concern fines to lump sums, transmitted directly by computer to a service located in Rennes and controlled by the public prosecutor's office in Rennes. At the local level, prosecutors should therefore be overworked only in the event of a dispute. I would add that fines will be immediately issued if they are accepted by the offender. For these various reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u424	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u425	We share your question, Member. It is essential to assess regularly the impact of the experiment on public prosecutors' offices and the evolution of their workload. However, the internal evaluation is the responsibility of the administration, which can, if necessary, better allocate the workload. In addition, asking the Commission to produce a report to Parliament would unnecessarily increase its activity. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u426	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u427	At this stage of the debate, I would like to point out that Members of the Group of the European Democratic Movement and related democrats have tabled an amendment in committee in order to oppose the direct transmission of the minutes of municipal police to the public prosecutor's offices, in particular the overburdening of prosecutors. Other arguments, however, can be put forward, which I shall elaborate briefly on. The rapporteur said that in most cases the municipal police's verbalisations would concern lump sum fines. This is not entirely correct: as part of the experiment, municipal police will also be able to verbalize offences, for which prosecutors will often ask for further investigation. This means that there will be round-trips between the prosecutor's office and the various directors of the municipal police services. The prosecutor needs to have a single interlocutor, who knows all the crime in his territory, and I am not sure that he will be able to answer to all those who will have to address him. I would add that, when police officers and judicial police officers report such offences, they are involved in rapprochements. The fact of having to pass through the judicial police officer's filter before transmission to the prosecutor's office is a good way of doing so, as it allows for the necessary reconciliations and avoids the return journeys that would otherwise necessarily be requested by the prosecutor. These arguments have not been accepted in committee, but I repeat them, because they also justify the fact that we asked for the introduction of a re-visit clause after a year. I regret, moreover, that the amendment in question was moved at the end of this bill: it will be considered in the context of a request for a report on the impact on the public prosecutor's offices of the direct transmission of the minutes, of which I would point out that many prosecutors do not particularly want the introduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u428	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u429	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u430	I would like to say that I fully agree with the arguments that have just been put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u431	[[Smile]] You're softening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u432	That is what led us, in our analysis of the role and place of the municipal police, to call for the cessation of hypocrisy by integrating its staff into the national police, in order to redeploy them to the national territory as necessary, by giving them the judicial qualification after having provided them with the appropriate training. Let us proceed in this way, rather than staying in the middle of the ford by equipping them with ever more skills, which is tantamount to unloading themselves on them! In addition, you give municipal police the opportunity to detect crimes, but do you think the two police – national and municipal – will do so? Of course not! As part of its internal reorganization, the municipal police will have to focus on its "core business" – I put big quotes because defining what the core business should be should be at the centre of our discussion. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We can see, therefore, that we are going to discharge ourselves on her by linking her directly with the prosecutor's office, even as prosecutors point out – I'm not going to say that they complain, because it would be a little too loud – that the judicial procedure is already not always very well respected by the national police, probably because of lack of training and habit, but also because it has other tasks to perform and because the organisation is badly done. It's a big problem! Because, at the end, what happens to this operation? Mr Fauvergue, I see you laughing, but it's not funny at all! It leads to a procedural flaw which means that anyone who has actually committed an offence can get away with it; I am sure that this is not your goal! What you want to do would not only lead to an overload of work and other difficulties that have already been mentioned, but also to legal uncertainty within the system. Adopting this amendment would therefore be the minimum trade union; This would make it possible to observe the possible negative impact of the measure on the public prosecutor's offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u433	It'll do more paperwork!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u434	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u435	I understand that balance is difficult to find. But the current situation is as follows: in many cases – the text proposes to remedy this – municipal police officers must both intervene on the ground and turn to the police station to come into contact with an OPJ, which then transmits the minutes to the public prosecutor. In a constituency like mine, this intermediary no longer exists, because there are no more judicial police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u436	It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u437	In the police district which corresponds to the territory in which I am elected, there is no longer a judicial police force, so that on the weekend, police stations must transfer all the procedures to a central police station representing the equivalent of five to six communes, or several hundred thousand inhabitants. Of course, the lack of resources is a problem, Mr Bernalicis, but you understand that, during an intoxication arrest on the public road, it seems regrettable to me to have to go through a judicial police officer in order to be able to transmit the minutes, because this creates an overload of work which is having an impact on the prosecutor's office. So I understand the warning. In fact, we come to the fundamental problem of training municipal police officers as assistant judicial police officers: the procedures they initiate must be sound, so that no one can escape them. It therefore seems to me that a better balance must be found – rather than the parliamentary shuttle, the reading of the text by the Senate will have to guarantee it. There is no need to overload the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office with tasks that can be carried out by a judicial police deputy, and in addition, in the case of venial offences; Nor is it worth inventing a danger that would put public freedoms at risk. At a time when the offence has been found, what is needed is that the report is transmitted and that the prosecutor can then continue the proceedings without having to deal with too many intermediaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u438	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u439	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] Mr Bernalicis, the misinformation that you are the author of is the result of bad information: I think you are not very aware of how things work. You worked in a DDSP – the department's Directorate of Public Security – but you were in the offices: you were what police officers call a "gull", the one who has a gum and who has to deal with... Mr. Bernalicis, don't be upset! It's a usual expression, which has nothing insulting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u440	This is not at the level of the House! We're not insulting MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u441	All this to say it's better to learn about each other's work. First, the first four classes of contravention, dealt with by municipal police, are not dealt with by the public prosecutor's office but by the officers of the public prosecutor's office, the police commissioners, who report to the Ministry of the Interior. This represents a less burden for the public prosecutor's office. Secondly, the new prerogatives assigned by this bill to municipal police officers will be part of the package, which exists for contraventions and for offences. A flat-rate fine applies in particular to the newly created drug offences: the minutes will now be transmitted directly to Rennes, where two public prosecutors will have the task of studying the reality of the offence. This makes it possible not to add too much work to the local public prosecutor's offices. I would add that, in a city of about 60000 inhabitants, the officers of the judicial police deal on average with 8000 pieces of criminal procedure, which are sent back to them by the prosecution for further investigation, before reaching for the most part a record of vain searches. This is also a task that is delegated by the Public Prosecutor's Office to judicial police officers. Finally, at present, judicial police officers, whether gendarmes or police officers, are seized of all the minutes of municipal police, whose cases they must deal with; It gives them even more work. By giving new powers to municipal police officers, in particular the lump-sum arrangement that allows them to issue lump-sum fines directly, one does not simply increase their power: work is taken away from the JPOs, who will have more time to carry out their real work on the ground, by devoting themselves to judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u442	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u443	You will have understood this, in the light of the circumstances and the comments made by the rapporteur, Mr Fauvergue: it is based on Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure, for personal reasons. The Ministry of the Interior employs many people who, each in its place, contribute to the optimal functioning of the institution. Believe me, in the service that I led and with the seventy people that were under my responsibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u444	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u445	... to implement the budget of the Ministry of the Interior in the area of defence and security Nord – Nord, Pas-de-Calais and Picardie – for the national police, for the national gendarmerie and for the demining centres of civil security...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u446	It wasn't a gummy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u447	It's not anecdotal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u448	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It's not anecdotal! If, for example, such a service stops paying invoices, active units will no longer be able to have the equipment they need to operate on a daily basis. Everyone is contributing to the global effort, everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u449	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u450	You despise me, my former colleagues and those who still work in this service, but I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to their involvement and their daily commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u451	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u452	If the ministry holds, especially in times of crisis like the one we are experiencing as a result of covid-19, it is also thanks to them. It is thanks to everyone: those who are active, those who are in the field and those who are behind an office. In fact, I told you about the substitution, Mr Fauvergue; According to the Court of Auditors, more than 8,000 police officers are behind an office while they should be in the field! 8000...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u453	Please. I have accepted your point of order as a personal matter, but it should not be used to continue the debate on the other issues that have been discussed. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u454	It relates to the conduct of the session and the sitting police for which you have responsibility, Mr. Chairman. In democracy, there is a majority and an opposition. It is not a priori completely illogical that the opposition opposes, questions, questions and tries to obtain answers. I understand that you have difficulty getting used to this operation, but, I repeat, it is called democracy. [[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] I hope that the personal attacks on our colleague Ugo Bernalicis will be stopped immediately. It's unworthy, it's not up to the National Assembly. So go and tell the 8900 "gulls" of the National Police – these are roughly the numbers of its administrative staff – that they are useless! It is not acceptable to personally attack a colleague, on the pretext that he has a different opinion from yours and that he expresses it in his style. I therefore hope, in the name of the respect that we owe to the House, that our debates will regain some serenity. If you bring us to this field, I'll let myself go, and I wouldn't prefer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u455	Promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u456	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u457	I have before me two amendments, Nos 873 and 325, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 873.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u458	In the report to be issued by the Government on the basis of information coming from the communes, it seems to us important that a clear distinction be drawn between the communes that attributed the weapon to their municipal police and those that did not. From the moment the powers of municipal police officers are expanded by the allocation of judicial police prerogatives, officers will be more exposed. I do not want to resume the debate we have had on armaments, but I think it is a madness to imagine that a municipal police force may still not be armed. He'd be like a plumber without screwdrivers! In my view, the weapon is an integral part of a police officer's uniform, whether national or municipal, and I would add that we do not need to generalize the carrying of weapons by law: it will be through incitement and pragmatism. In an area such as Île-de-France, it is now almost impossible to recruit a municipal policeman without arming him, because this profession is in tension, it requires training and skills. As a result, municipalities are almost obliged to arm their municipal police forces in order to recruit quality agents. This armament will be done with pragmatism and serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u459	Amendment No 325 by Mr Julien Dive is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u460	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1005.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u461	As some of my colleagues have pointed out, the municipal police force has seen its strength, resources and powers grow significantly and continuously since the early 2000s. Thus, while it was a new form of community policing, assistance to people, close to the demands of the citizens, the municipal police tend to gradually become an explicit force to combat petty crime, which can even be mobilized in major crises. In this context, this amendment wishes to draw attention to the consequences of the extension of municipal polices on our territorialized model of security. He proposed that the general evaluation report of the experiment should include an impact assessment on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u463	I am not in favour of the content of the evaluation report being so detailed. I shall therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u464	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u465	The extension of the scope of the municipal police by a three-year experiment is an excellent and much-anticipated measure. I propose that the evaluation report include a prospective study aimed at lowering the threshold of 20 agents, which is too high and risks excluding many cities – for example, the prefecture city of Lons-le-Saunier, which has only eight municipal agents. Despite its rural environment, violence is increasing, making it necessary to strengthen security and to support the national police by the municipal police. The municipal police services have an average of five officers, so many departments will be excluded from the experiment, which is unfortunate, as it has given rise to great hope in many territories. For example, it cannot be carried out in the Jura, since the city of Dole has only sixteen agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u466	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u467	I am not in favour of the law entering into this level of detail. On the other hand, we could take up the evaluation report at the time of the perpetration of the experiment. Depending on the results, it may be appropriate to extend these measures to a wider circle of municipal police services. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u468	Anyway, he's gonna be taken out!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u469	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to support Amendment No. 502.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u470	While agreement can be reached on the need to extend the scope of intervention of the municipal police and to strengthen its powers, it is necessary not to scramble the level of the national police or the national gendarmerie by allowing municipal police officers to send their reports and minutes directly, through the directors in particular, to the prosecutors of the Republic. We believe it is necessary to maintain the OPJ filter, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u471	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u472	The text already provides for the transmission of a copy to the judicial police officers. I can assure you that the experiment that will be carried out, by giving new powers to the municipal police, will allow some of the work of the judicial police officers of the national police and the national gendarmerie to be discharged. At present, many of the minutes recorded by municipal police, many of which are very active, are sent to the JPOs not for information, but for investigation. This increases the number of pieces they need to process and helps to keep them behind their desks. The experiment will allow their tasks in this area to be eased, while keeping them informed of the minutes transmitted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u473	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u474	It is also unfavorable: the filter between the municipal police and the prosecutor, which is indispensable, will continue to be fully insured, not by the judicial police officers, but by the municipal police directors or the chiefs of service. It is important to recall that the JPOs will, however, remain the recipients of the minutes. The Government's objective is to establish a more direct relationship between the municipal police services and the territorially competent judicial authority. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u475	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u476	I wonder, because I do not understand at all the reply of the rapporteur and the minister delegate: why do you want to forward the minutes to an OPJ if you consider that this is not necessary? What will he do with it, if not put it on a pile?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u477	It's really a gummy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u478	Either you go to the end of your logic of accountability of the municipal police officer who, together with his director, is in direct contact with the prosecutor's office – and it is only in case of a problem that the public prosecutor will turn to the judicial police officer of his choice for further investigation. Either you keep the current system of transmission of the report to the OPJ, which itself transmits it to the public prosecutor's office. Be consistent! Unless you're afraid of an unconstitutionality of the device? Maybe you're afraid you won't follow the legal process? I really do not understand the presence of these paragraphs 5 and 6 in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u479	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u480	Madam Deputy Minister, have prosecutors been involved in this reflection? Have they expressed their fear of being overwhelmed by the judicial acts that will be transmitted to them? Contrary to what has been said, it is not only lump sum fines that will be passed on, since the municipal police will have the opportunity to draw up minutes for conduct without a licence or insurance. These PVs will be forwarded to the prosecutor, not to the National Centre for the Treatment of Traffic Offences – CNT – Rennes. My question is therefore clear: do prosecutors agree to receive, without a filter, an additional amount of information? For our part, we are working to ensure that the judicial authority is able to fulfil its tasks, in particular to provide prompt responses in the context of community justice. I am in favour of Amendment No 502, because it seems to me important that the departmental director of public security or the regional commander of the gendarmerie have a broad view of all levels of crime, both in terms of the flat-rate fine and the offence. This vision of departmental crime is very useful in the discussions we have with the prefect and prosecutor, who are essential authorities to fight crime. I fear, however, that with the proposed device this vision will be lacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u481	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u482	In substance, I am surprised that there has been no choice to strengthen the coordination bodies that exist in cities between the national police and municipal police, such as local security councils, local crime prevention councils and police-led bodies. It's a blind spot of this text. The rapporteur is frank and honest: he says that under this bill, judicial police officers will be able to relieve part of their workload on the municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u483	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u484	However, according to constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, any transfer of responsibility from the State to local authorities must be subject to assessment and financial compensation. Is your bill – I was going to do a lapsus by saying "Bill" – clearly incorporating this necessity for the benefit of local communities? I am surprised that the right-wing, always very attentive to local finances and the prerogatives of the communes, did not point the finger at this real problem: on the occasion of this text, you are about to transfer to the communes, without means, charges that fall within the sovereign functions of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u485	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u486	The proposed framework, which aims to increase the skills and strengthen the role of municipal police, provides for a framework A to be headed by them as director or head of department. It seems interesting to me to create a direct link between him and the public prosecutor. The direct transmission of the PVs to the public prosecutor's offices therefore seems to me a good thing: it will make the criminal policy desired by the municipal elected officer more effective and readable and implemented by the municipal police. I am, however, sensitive to the argument that the departmental director of public security should receive the most complete information possible in order to conduct a criminal policy consistent with the ups and downs of national and municipal police. Sending the DDSP and the OPJ a copy of all the minutes which will be transmitted to the public prosecutor will enable them to have this comprehensive view of the state of crime in a department, in order to carry out a coherent criminal policy. Finally, this mechanism will help to avoid a pitfall which is unfortunately noted: the national police, concentrated on their daily work and on their files, do not always have time to deal with all the minutes sent to them by the municipal police and they are, in fact, sorting out. However, this is not satisfactory: it is up to the public prosecutor alone to decide whether or not the files deserve further investigation, on the basis of the PVs of the municipal police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u487	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u488	Like our colleague Cécile Untermaier, we would like to know, Madam Deputy Minister, whether prosecutors have been questioned on this subject. The Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats Group had tabled an amendment in committee on the amount of minutes to be transmitted. How can prosecutors deal with this mass? However, we have still not received the answer to this question. Earlier, you rejected an amendment to include prosecutors in the evaluation report. However, they are essential to the system: in order to ensure a safety continuum, they must be able to deal with all procedures. If the system blocks at their level, we will have a real concern and the objectives you pursue with this bill will not have been achieved. We need answers to the questions of our colleague Untermaier, the minister in charge, so that we can then decide on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u489	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u490	We are opposed to two arguments. The first concerns the lack of information of the OPJ or the DDSP, but it is not admissible, as the text provides that the OPJ will have a systematic copy of the minutes of the finding, which will be transmitted directly to the prosecutor. The second argument, which deals with the congestion of the public prosecutor's offices, does not seem to me to be more acceptable because in reality, on the ground, it is already the prosecutor who asks the municipal police to transmit the PVs directly with a copy to the OPJ. That's how it happens most of the time! It seems to me that our debate ignores the real. In the field, the prosecutor is already speaking directly to municipal police and the collaboration between the services is real.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u491	Mr Jean-Michel Fauvergue has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u492	You are absolutely right, Mrs Ménard, that is exactly how it is on the ground. I would like to respond to the various points raised. Mr Jumel, there is no transfer of charges from the national police to the municipal police; There are many new charges for municipal police officers, but they concern lump sum fines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u493	I want to say to Mrs Untermaier that the driving without a licence also results in a lump sum fine, sent directly to the offender who admits to having committed the offence; On the other hand, if he disputes it, the fine may be increased. [[Applause on several benches of the groups on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as of Mr Sébastien Jumel and Ms Cécile Untermaier]] I saw that Mrs. Untermaier was staring at me. I would like to apologize to you, Mr Bernalicis, for what I said to you – I am not sure that these excuses deserve applause –
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u494	You want to take them off?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u495	[[Smile]] ... because I had no intention of hurting you, using an expression used – as you know – in the police services to designate a certain category of personnel in a paternalistic and good child way. So I was a paternalist and a good child to you, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u496	He's the spiritual son of whom you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u497	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u498	More prosaically, I would like to provide some technical answers to the questions that have been put to us. Indeed, the Minister of Justice convened three working groups, including prosecutors, to discuss the workload. Beyond the fact that a consultation has indeed been carried out, I would point out that what has been put in place is only an experiment: if it shows that the workload is too heavy, for example, we will make adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u499	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 601.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u500	It aims to review the deadline for the transmission of the minutes by our friends the rural guards, aligning it with the time limit currently in force for the minutes concerning environmental damage under Article 172-16 of the Environmental Code. Thus, the time limit for the transmission of proceedings will be harmonised with a single time limit of five days following the closure of the minutes, which will allow the collection of all procedural documents relevant to the investigation to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u502	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u504	Article 1, paragraph 5, provides for a derogation from article 21 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which does not refer to rural guards. It is not possible to provide for an experimental derogation from this article on an area which it does not cover: therefore, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u505	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u506	The standard in judicial matters is the forwarding to the Public Prosecutor's Office without delay, not within five days. Environmental damage is a special case, as it is expected that investigations will have time to be carried out. This five-day period could be seen as an inappropriate oddity if some coercive measure could be used. As soon as coercive measures can be used, for example, to place a person in custody, it is necessary that the relevant report be transmitted without delay to the prosecutor, in accordance with the Constitution: indeed, it is the judicial authority that guarantees individual freedoms, in particular that of going and coming – a fundamental freedom, not to say sacred. As far as your apologies are concerned, Mr rapporteur, I accept them, because I am not used to being resentful. That said, gums are mostly gums, and I understand the temptation of paternalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u507	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 462.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u508	The excellent Mr Cordier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u509	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that municipal police officers may transmit the minutes also in electronic form. It is in fact a matter of allowing the municipal police to adapt to the new technologies – although I am well aware that there are still many white areas in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u510	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u511	As far as the white areas are concerned, unfortunately it is not today that we are going to be able to solve the problem, but I think that things are going to improve. The transmission of the minutes by electronic means is a request already satisfied, since electronic PVs have been replacing manuscript PVs for some time already for offences subject to a flat-rate fine procedure, i.e. those corresponding to almost all the new powers that will be granted to the municipal police. I therefore call on you to withdraw this amendment and, failing that, to issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u512	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u513	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u514	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 1032.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u515	It is intended that a copy of the record of the finding of the offence may be sent to the offender when he or she is known – or to his or her counsel – unless otherwise directed by the public prosecutor. It is in fact a matter of enabling the defence to exercise its rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u516	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u517	It is customary for a copy of the record of the finding of the infringement to be sent to the offender, except in the case of a flat-rate fine, based on the principle of recognition of the facts; the minutes are then received at the place of residence at a later date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u519	This amendment provides for the transmission of reports and minutes to violators. However, these documents do not only cover contraventions, but also crimes and offences of which municipal police officers are aware. The purpose of the transmission is to inform the public prosecutor so that he can assess the follow-up to a case, in accordance with the provisions of article 40 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We believe that the reports and minutes do not have to be communicated to the persons in question, who will have access to them only if the prosecutor decides to prosecute. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u520	I call Mr Buon Tan to support Amendment No. 1277.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u521	If it seems to me a very good thing that the transmission of the minutes by the municipal police officers is done automatically, I hear the concern expressed by our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky, who wants the police to be informed in case the prosecutor wishes to return to them for further investigation. In order to respond, I propose to clarify that copying to judicial police officers is done without delay. Thus, in the event that the prosecutor's office would like more information, the investigative OPJ would be kept informed on a regular basis rather than discovering the case at the last moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u522	I have before me five amendments, Nos 473, 217, 433, 24 and 5, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 217 and 433 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 473.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u523	The aim of this amendment is to allow the rural guards to put a vehicle in the impound. At present, this operation can only be prescribed by the deputy judicial police officer, chief of the municipal police or who holds these functions, territorially competent. However, it is common for rural communities – where sometimes only rural guards are employed – to face abusive parking on public roads. I would point out that a vehicle can be impounded when its parking is considered to be embarrassing, abusive or dangerous, all offences for which the rural guards are competent without being able to prescribe impoundment. This amendment therefore corrects an anomaly by providing for the possibility of impounding by the rural guards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u524	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u525	This amendment is also intended to allow the rural guards to place a vehicle in the impoundment. In our rural areas, rural guards regularly observe vehicle parking offences, which is why it would be logical to give them a means of action in this area. If the Government's amendment No. 1353, which we adopted earlier, has the effect of satisfying my amendment, I will withdraw it – failing which I will, of course, retain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u526	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u527	In the countryside, it is important to allow the mayor and his rural guards to solve the problem of a car that disturbs public order, prevents the inhabitants from going on a forest road, or what I know. It is beautiful to declare our flame to the rural guard, a symbol of forgotten rurality, yet we must give him concrete skills! This is the meaning of Amendment No 433, which seeks to extend the powers of the rural guard by aligning them with those of the municipal police with regard to the impoundment of vehicles. It's very concrete, I repeat, and it doesn't eat bread.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u528	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u529	This amendment concerns not the situation in rural areas, but in Paris and the major cities. Our amendment is aimed at facilitating the exercise of the power of immobilization and impoundment in these areas, by allowing the assistant judicial police officers to proceed with the immobilization and impoundment, with the prior authorization of the public prosecutor. Indeed, in a city like Paris, where up to 5000 municipal police officers could soon be counted, it is difficult to see how the director of the municipal police could alone carry out all the capital assets and impoundment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u530	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u531	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] The number of offences that could be identified would be too large and would give rise to fears of an overload of work for the future director of the municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u532	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u533	This amendment would broaden the scope of paragraph 7 because, in municipalities with a large number of municipal police officers, the municipal police director is himself assisted by one or more heads of department. It is therefore a matter of empowering not only the municipal police director, but also his chiefs of service, to carry out the impoundment of awkward vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u534	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u535	[[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] The committee has delivered negative opinions on the amendments to give the rural guards the power to impound. Having said that, I personally express a favourable opinion on identical amendments Nos 217 and 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u536	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u537	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u538	The Government issued a wisdom opinion on identical amendments Nos. 217 and 433, and against the other amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u539	Well, let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u540	Sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u541	We should have asked for a public vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u542	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u543	Could I have an explanation of your views against Amendment No 24, Madam Minister Delegate, rapporteur? Why not offer this possibility in Paris, when a municipal police force composed of nearly 5000 agents will be created there? It is a question of pragmatism, given the large number of persons potentially affected by these offences. I need to understand because, at the Paris Council, in the face of Mrs Hidalgo, who is probably not the priority, I will have to be as effective as possible in my argument. What really are your reasons?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u544	More sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u545	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u546	So much for Amendment No 473 if you are in favour of Amendment No 217. After all, it suits me, too. On the other hand, I do not understand your position on Amendment No 5, which is purely editorial. It simply targets municipalities where the municipal police force is large enough to have both a director of the municipal police and chiefs of service. Why refuse this pragmatic and effective measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u547	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u548	Do I have to understand, Mrs Ménard, that you are withdrawing Amendment No 473?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u549	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u550	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 1033.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u551	I withdraw that amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u552	Do you maintain Amendment No 1034, Mrs Zitouni?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u553	Yes, Mr. President. It is intended to allow an explanatory note to be issued to the offender to inform him or her of his or her rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u554	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u555	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u556	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u557	This amendment is already satisfactory, so I would ask you to withdraw it, Madam.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u558	Do you agree to remove it, Mrs. Zitouni?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u559	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u560	I call Mr Buon Tan to support Amendment No. 1278.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u561	As part of a sporting, recreational or cultural event, municipal police officers may inspect baggage and bags and make safety palpations, with the consent of the person, but are not authorized to confiscate items considered dangerous, which may cause injury. Thus, in order to return to the enclosure where the demonstration takes place, the controlled person has only to entrust the dangerous object in his possession to a friend. We propose to allow municipal police officers to seize these items, duly recorded in a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u562	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u563	Your request will be largely met by Amendment No 937, which we will consider later. It provides for the possibility for municipal police officers to identify and seize the offence of unlawful possession of category D weapons. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u564	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u565	Seizure is possible only in the event of a finding of an offence providing for a confiscation penalty. Your amendment does not establish a link between the commission of the offence and the penalty. As the rapporteur has pointed out, Amendment No 937 will achieve your objective, which we share. It allows municipal police officers to detect and seize the illegal carrying of category D weapons. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u566	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr. Tan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u567	I'm taking him off because he'll be happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u568	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 1035.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u569	When a vehicle is immobilized, items seized – personal effects, home keys, identity papers or any other material not useful to the investigation – may not be returned to the offender, making it difficult. My amendment seeks to ensure that the objects in question, after having been the subject of an inventory signed by the person concerned, are handed over to him without delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u570	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u571	I don't deny that such things happen, but that shouldn't be the case. Municipal police officers are mentioned here: however, they are not authorized to investigate, so there is no possibility of seizure. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u572	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u573	This amendment poses a formal problem since it does not specify which sentence of Article 1e(r)(8) it intends to supplement. In addition, this addition seems to us unnecessary, since municipal police officers can only seize objects that have been used or produced for the commission of offences and for which a confiscation penalty is already provided. They cannot therefore seize other objects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u574	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs Zitouni?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u575	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u576	I have before me two amendments, Nos 73 and 602, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Do you want to defend one of these amendments, Mrs Kuster?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u577	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for a while, but you do not see me. Neither the rapporteur nor the minister delegate replied to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u578	Your amendment has fallen. What amendment do you come up with?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u579	Maybe I'll make a point of order, if you prefer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u580	I have no preference. What amendment do you come up with?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u581	[[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] I know that the Government and the rapporteurs have the right not to reply, but I would like to understand their refusal. There's some information to give. This amendment concerns a very specific subject. It was not I who had the initiative of this amendment, it responded to a request made by the police professionals. At least by decency, could you explain your reasons to me in one sentence, Madam Deputy Minister, especially since I see that you are taking the trouble of responding to many Members but not necessarily from every bench? That would be better, otherwise the debates may not be very easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u582	I do not know what amendment you have made, Mrs Kuster. Do I have to understand that you're defending number 73, Mr. Pauget?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u583	Mr President, my colleague wanted to go back to a previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u584	Would you like to speak, Madam Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u585	I cannot let you say that I am not answering Members enough, since I am regularly criticized for replying too much and too long. I would like to be criticized in contradiction, but I should like to know that every time I try to answer the opposition's questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u586	That's not what my colleague said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u587	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I don't think Mrs. Kuster needs a translator, MP. I have expressed myself on the form, I will now answer on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u588	Stop the controversy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u589	Can I answer that? Tell me...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u590	Please! Let us listen to the response of the Associate Minister, who was asked by Ms. Kuster. Madam Deputy Minister, you have the floor and you alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u591	Thank you, Mr. President. Director is a rank and we consider that there may be several, there may not be one director. That is why we have expressed an unfavorable opinion. I hope I have answered your question, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u592	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u593	We can now move on to Amendment No 73, I imagine. Mr Eric Pauget has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u594	On an experimental basis, the aim is to allow in the road code municipal police, in the event of a traffic accident, to carry out tests for alcohol impregnation. We know that in a commune where a municipal police force exists, it is most often its members who arrive first at the scene of an accident. This task would significantly reduce the workload of members of the national police or gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u595	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u596	My amendment is more modest than the one which my excellent colleague Eric Pauget has just defended, since he proposes a limited experiment of six months. Its purpose is to enable the chiefs of the municipal police service, upon the request of the public prosecutor, for a certain period of time and in well-defined places, to identify the alcohol impregnation of a person suspected of having committed a serious offence under the road code. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] What is the purpose of this experiment? The aim is to ensure that, tomorrow, municipal police officers are able to participate in blood alcohol surveys, which is a major problem in road accidents, as well as driving under the influence of narcotics, causing an increasing number of accidents. These municipal police officers must be able to participate in the road accident prevention chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u597	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u598	Personally, the opinion is favourable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u599	No, the opinion will be unfavorable, but with a small shade, as the Government intends to work on this possibility. I will also reply to Mrs Kuster, not to be rude to her. If we have issued a favourable opinion on the amendments to allow the rural guards to impound the vehicles, it is because we want to increase their powers as assistant judicial police officers, because they are currently limited. In Paris, on the latest news, there are no rural guards, but any judicial police officer placed under the authority of a judicial police officer can apply for impoundment. Here's the answer I wanted to give you not to leave you in the dark.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u600	Let us go back to Amendments Nos 73 and 602. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u601	We are against it, but we share the objective they aim to achieve. The services of the Ministry of the Interior are working on the possibility of carrying out checks on the level of alcohol or narcotics, directly on the authorization of the service manager, without the need to go through the judicial police officers, and they are looking at the desirability of integrating it into the experiment. We ask you to give us some time for this expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u602	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u603	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u604	We take note of your request, Madam Minister Delegate, and remind you that these provisions are contained in the White Paper on Internal Security which your responsible minister recently presented. The next two amendments that I will be defending also stem from the recommendations of this White Paper. The provisions of this bill could almost have been brought into line with the proposals contained in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u605	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u606	That is exactly what I wanted to say and so my remarks will be a little redundant. This text contains interesting measures and you defend them, Madam Minister Delegate, as the minister and the rapporteurs defend them. They are welcome, we have already said what we thought about the substance. However, as the White Paper has just been published, let me stress the considerable delay that has been irremediably taken in the security field during the quinquennium. The White Paper will no doubt be the basis – and I very much hope so – of a new policy and programming law for internal security that I have been calling for for years. Personally, I would add justice. In fact, at the beginning of the legislature, I tabled a bill adopting a budgetary perspective. It was even examined in the niche of the LR group. I sincerely regret, Madam Minister, that all this time has been wasted and that we are not at the stage where we can discuss the strong points of this White Paper, which contains interesting proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] When will the measure on alcohol levels be adopted by the House? Probably in the fall of 2021! In other words, it will never be applied, like no strategic security measures during the quinquennium. We'll have lost five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u607	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u608	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u609	I am in complete disagreement with Mr Ciotti with regard to security – it will not have escaped anyone – but we are on one point: a timetable was set.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u610	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u611	The former Minister of the Interior had promised a White Paper on security. He even offered to associate us – I don't know if you were, but personally, I wasn't at all! We were assured that at the end of the White Paper, a comprehensive law – including programming – would be proposed to us. That's what was promised! If I were a member of the majority, I would complain: when you are sold a project like this, and you end up with a piece of text, where pieces of proposals coincide vaguely with a white paper presented in committee after the examination of the text, there is something to be disappointed with! Not being of the majority, I can only notice. Why are we looking at this text now? Why is there an acceleration? Because, once again, we make hot texts to stick to an actuality, without global reflection, without asking ourselves questions. I have even seen a union of municipal police officers – with whom I do not share much, let's say – complain that they are given new missions without questioning the meaning of the profession in a global way. In the end, these police officers are right. I do not agree with them as to the meaning of global missions, but they are right! One wonders what we are doing here, if not validating a governmental scheme of political and demagogic communication, which does not serve the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u612	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u613	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem group]] Before replying to Mr Ciotti, and with full respect for the separation of powers, I would like to defend the work of Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Alice Thourot. I cannot let it be said that the bill that we are considering has been drafted at a rush, at a hot spot or at the turn of a corridor. That's not true, and you know it. You are well aware that this bill has been worked out very seriously by the deputies of the majority and by the rapporteurs, who have conducted numerous consultations and hearings, have gone to the field and propose to the vote a text that will greatly improve overall security. I can't let it be said that the laws are made in a rush. That is not the case, and I would like to state it objectively. You are also right, Mr Ciotti, and I share your objective. I would simply remind you that the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, has indicated that he is preparing a law on programming and guidance in the wake of the publication of the White Paper. He is working on it, and I hope that we will discuss it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u614	Programming is programmed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u615	The programming law extends over three quinquennats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u616	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-18-O1082.u617	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the draft law on comprehensive security. The meeting is adjourned.
