ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u1	The next item is the final reading of the draft organic law on social debt and autonomy (No. 3241) and the draft law on social debt and autonomy (No. 3242). The Conference of Presidents decided that these texts would give rise to a common general discussion. I would remind you that the statements in the general debate are valid explanations of vote. At the end of the general discussion, we will vote successively on the draft organic law in the neighbouring rooms of the Chamber and then on the ordinary bill in the Chamber. The vote on the organic bill will be open for thirty minutes during which the meeting will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u2	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u3	We are at the final stage of the examination of the two organic and ordinary bills on social debt and autonomy. How far they've come since their depots! It must be said that parliamentary work has considerably enriched these texts and will guide our country's social protection system for a long time. Initially, the fast-track deposits of organic and ordinary bills on social debt and self-government responded to short-term cash requirements. It was necessary to transfer in the near future some of the accumulated social security deficits within the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – ACOSS. The projections are unfortunately known: the financial consequences of the covid-19 crisis are considerable and result in a social security deficit of an unprecedented amount, equivalent, according to our latest forecasts, to 52 billion euros for the year 2020. Decrees increased ACOSS's overdraft clearance to 70 billion, and then to 95 billion euros, while the amount of 39 billion euros had been decided by the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. However, despite these extensions of the overdraft authorization, such a situation was difficult to maintain. It was necessary to respond to this high pressure on ACOSS's cash flow through new transfers of social debt to the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES. This is the objective of these two bills, which aim to transfer to CADES new debts up to EUR 136 billion. The bills also contain measures to address the issues of population ageing. They were intended, in their initial versions, to devote to the loss of autonomy, from 2024 onwards, a share of the CSG's income – a generalised social contribution – amounting to 2.3 billion euros, currently used for the repayment of social debt. Finally, they tended to better identify expenditure on autonomy in social security financing laws. At first reading, you kept the proposed scheme while going further, including in the draft ordinary law the creation of a new risk and a new branch of social security relating to autonomy, which will be managed by the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy – CNSA. In my capacity as Deputy Minister for Self-Government, I can tell you that the creation of this new branch is a pride, because it is the first stone of a great reform that I will have at heart to build with you. A branch has nothing fictitious or technocratic; It is very real and it will allow us to face a new known risk, which concerns an increasing number of French. The numbers are out of line and you know them: in 2040, more than 10 million people will be 75 years of age or older, twice today. The creation of this branch will give visibility to parliamentarians, as soon as the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – for 2021, on the financial balance of the sector of autonomy. However, this creation is not the point of departure but the beginning of the reform project. A prefiguration mission for this fifth branch has just begun; It will issue its report in September, so that all issues related to its funding or governance can be addressed for the next PLFSS, for the benefit of well-informed parliamentary debates. All actors should work together to find a consensus solution to deliver at least EUR 1 billion by 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] The ambition I want to share with you is simple and strong: to preserve the free choice and dignity of our elders – it concerns us all. The stake is human, emotional and moral, because it is in the fate that it reserves to the most fragile that the value of a society is measured. The great reform of the action relating to old age and autonomy is expected, and we will be at the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u4	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u5	After considering the organic and ordinary bills on social debt and autonomy, which we are about to vote on, I would like to go back to the responsibility we have shown, without abandoning our ambition in social matters. Demonstrating responsibility meant first accepting the extra time for the amortization of social debt. It is, of course, a matter of abandoning the goal of ending social debt in 2024, but, in line with the recovery plan adopted earlier this week by the European Council, I see it as a sign of the strength of our institutions in order to absorb the considerable financial resources committed to deal with the health crisis and to support our businesses and our citizens. I would remind you that the €52 billion in social security deficits for the 2020 financial year is twice the amount of the deficit recorded after the 2008 crisis. A year and a half had then been required to transfer the crisis-related debt to CADES. Today, particularly with the organic bill that I invite you to vote on, we are taking a quick response, which is the urgency of the situation. This has been said throughout our discussions: it is not possible to leave the ACOSS with a debt of almost 95 billion euros, whereas this agency has the initial competence to finance the very short-term needs of the branches. We reassure our partners, while building on a strong institution that has demonstrated, including during the crisis, the credibility of its signature in international financial markets. However, the spirit of responsibility that drives us does not prevent initiatives. The organic text thus paves the way for the creation of the fifth branch of social security, relating to autonomy. If I intend to allow the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs and Rapporteur of the ordinary bill to come back to this, particularly with regard to future legislation, I would like to welcome once again this parliamentary initiative, which comes from the benches of the majority, which, Madam Minister Delegate, calls on the Government to define both governance, scope and funding for this fifth branch. I am serene; We won't stay in the middle of the ford. I would therefore like to stress the strengthening of parliamentary information in the new annex to the PLFSS provided for in the organic text. We will be able to benefit from consolidated information from the next financial year on the nation's overall effort to promote autonomy, while this sector is now marked by a sharp dispersion of the actors involved in its financing and use. The parliamentary debate has even enriched the scope of this annex by adding an assessment of expenditure related to prevention, learning about autonomy and research. Rather than a "old age" society, I prefer to talk to you about the "old age" society, which must guide our thinking for the future. The investment of caregivers would be recognized by compensation at its fair value and caregivers would themselves be recognized for their contribution. Healthy life expectancy would increase in France, while European comparisons are still unfavourable. People of advanced age would be included in the society around them, both by maintaining the social link with their relatives and by changing the collective view of people who may gradually become dependent. The organic and ordinary texts we are looking at are indeed a first step towards the realization of this society of "ageing well", which, according to the simplest demographic laws, will have ever more people of advanced age. However, they are only a first step: the organic bill seeks to regulate what is still to be included in ordinary texts. As such, the next PLFSS will be an opportunity to jointly build the social security effort to support people with disabilities as well as people of advanced age. I also welcome the fact that the law on old age and autonomy remains among the priorities of this Government. We certainly did not expect it by crossing our arms, since we have already introduced leave for caregivers and improved the terms of the APA – Personalized Independence Allowance – and the PCH – Disability Compensation Benefit. A specific text will, however, make it possible to complete the construction of a system entirely dedicated to autonomy, by identifying the specific stakes of the millions of our fellow citizens already concerned. As you know, I like to stress the notion of autonomy, which can certainly be appreciated from the point of view of loss of autonomy, but which we should also consider through the prism of maintaining and gaining autonomy. In the same vein, but I know you are already convinced, Madam Minister Delegate, this assessment of autonomy cannot be summed up in the question of the effects of the advance of age; It applies equally to people with disabilities. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Each year, thanks to the new annex, we will be able to analyse and accompany the evolution of the benefits devoted to autonomy. This perspective and transparency oblige us, but I already know that we will collectively be at the rendezvous of this new society that truly supports the autonomy of its members, who are still too little visible to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u6	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u7	Allow me, in turn, to begin this final intervention on this text by thanking all parliamentarians for the quality of the discussions that led to its consideration, both in terms of social debt and autonomy. I note, moreover, that the text is enriched on both sides. First of all, in addition to the spirit of responsibility that Paul Christophe has just mentioned, which has enabled us to transfer 136 billion euros of a social debt that could not be left at the moment, amendments aimed at strengthening the information that we can have on social debt have been adopted. The adoption of Mrs Peyrol's amendment, first of all, supported by the Republic on the move, will enable us to know how the measures contained in the successive PLFSS will affect the rate of social debt repayment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u8	Good thing she was here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u9	Repressing the extinction of this debt to 2033 is not annoyance, especially for future generations. It is therefore legitimate that, in line with what has been done so far, parliamentarians should be informed as fully as possible of the impact of their vote on the rate of debt repayment. An amendment, adopted at the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group, will allow us to have a debate informed by information such as the amount, communicated without delay, of the amount paid to ACOSS by the Pension Reserve Fund. This will be part of the seriousness with which we appreciate the financial trajectory of social accounts. It is with the same spirit of initiative that we have also adopted the request for a report to the Government, once again from Mrs Peyrol, on the issue of "social bonds" – obligations with social impact. In line with what is already practiced with the green bonds – obligations with positive environmental impact – compliance with the criteria of social responsibility in the borrowing policy of the CADES seems to us to be a measure of common sense. Finally, with regard to the debt of hospitals, I repeat, as I have done in the various readings of this text, my pride in belonging to the majority, which has eased the burden borne by these institutions since the 2007 and 2012 hospital plans. The EUR 13 billion debt recovery is, as you know, part of a historic effort in favour of our health institutions, whether it is recruitment – 15,000 posts will be created – or the remuneration of all staff working within them – which will increase in the next few months – or the opening of new beds – 4000 beds will be opened. A total of EUR 27 billion will be invested in our hospital system, an unprecedented effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u10	I would not want the legitimate debates that we have had on the modalities of this debt recovery to forget the historic nature of these measures for our health care system. Historically, this text has probably also been so with regard to the autonomy aspect. The creation of the fifth branch, which is a parliamentary initiative, initiates a reorganisation of social security so that autonomy becomes a public policy in its own right. This branch has, moreover, been gradually enriched as we have discussed it, since it has been entrusted to the CNSA, which is de facto responsible for the control of the expenditure to support autonomy. The findings of the mission led by Laurent Vachey after a consultation with the financiers, representatives of users, as well as associations of pensioners, persons with disabilities and communities, will feed into the discussions of the next PLFSS on the perimeter of this branch as well as on the modalities of its financing. On the basis of old-age and self-governing cooperation, the various parliamentary reports submitted on this subject and decades of debates on the creation of a branch dedicated to autonomy, we no longer had to procrastinate: it was time to start financing this branch by deciding to transfer part of the CSG to it, up to a minimum of 2.3 billion from 2024. Should we go further and imagine new resources allocated to the field of autonomy, both within and outside the scope of social security alone? These are the debates that will lead the examination of the next PLFSS, of which I will have the honour of being the rapporteur-general. This text seems to me to prove our collective ability to deal with an immediate crisis without sacrificing anything to the long-term stakes. Some may have regretted that it mixes two subjects that would have no relation to each other. On the contrary, I see it as a profound consistency. Without a responsible financial trajectory that will allow a gradual return to balance, we would weaken social accounts and ultimately our ability to pay benefits to all those of our fellow citizens who need them, including in the field of autonomy. At the same time, without a real assumption of autonomy today, we would miss what precisely justifies the existence of social finances: the compensation of a risk that we can all face at some point in our lives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] It was therefore time to create this branch of social security. The coherence and seriousness with which we have discussed and acted will, I hope, preside over the many social texts that await us in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u11	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Chairman of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u12	As we conclude our work on organic and ordinary bills, I would first like to thank our colleagues for the excellent atmosphere that has always presided over our debates in the special committee and then in the sitting. We owe this in large part to the rapporteurs Paul Christophe and Thomas Mesnier, who responded scrupulously to everyone and to the Government, whose members participated actively in our discussions. I have been as happy as I am honoured to chair the special committee, and I look forward to seeing its mission come to fruition today. The issues we had to deal with were not minor. How can we solve the problems posed by the social debt that will grow as a result of the health crisis? How can the conditions for the creation of a fifth branch of social security be defined? While some have defended options that are sometimes radically different, I would like to pay tribute to all colleagues and to all groups, who, by placing themselves on the ground with ideas and arguments rather than with the vain polemics, have been able to rise to these crucial challenges in this difficult time. Although I regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement with the Senate in the Joint Joint Committee, because a finding of failure always has something a little frustrating, I prefer to retain the main positive aspects of these few weeks of parliamentary procedure. Firstly, we have found a solution in time to cover social debt and, therefore, to ensure the functioning of a social security system to which, on all banks, we are very attached. Secondly, we give substance to the Government's commitment to a debt recovery that will provide an indispensable relief to the budget of our hospitals. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it was by an amendment adopted by our special committee that we made the historic decision to create a fifth branch of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u13	What do we write about history books?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u14	If, for several years, this had often been mentioned in our House, no government had done so. We can therefore collectively be proud of this creation. I understand, of course, those who consider this decision to be rather symbolic, because it lacks financial resources. I note, however, that this criticism often comes from those who have belonged to majorities supporting governments that have never crossed this course. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] On the bottom, we cannot say that, at the very moment we create it, this branch is an empty shell. It can count not only on existing resources, but also on the commitments made by the Government and on the financial arrangements provided for in the texts that we are finally adopting this afternoon. I therefore welcome today the very positive outcome of the review of these two bills, and I am confident that they will receive broad approval from our chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u15	In the joint general debate, Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u16	The issue of funding through national solidarity to accompany the loss of autonomy has been a recurring topic for many years, but it has never been addressed in its completeness. Since 1988, and after the creation of the CSG by Michel Rocard, the creation of a fifth risk of social security has continued to recur in the debate. The heat of 2003, which caused the death of 20,000 elderly people, led to the creation of the CNSA and the day of solidarity, which, far from creating a risk of dependency, nevertheless enabled the financing of the aid for autonomy to begin and to draw a new field of social protection halfway between the assistance and social action of the departments and national solidarity. Today, it is another tragedy – that of the covid epidemic –19 – that reminded us of the underfunded state of our medico-social structures and home support services. We could therefore only rejoice in the fact that at last we have a text on autonomy before our House. Unfortunately, our disappointment is great when we see that the front door lies in a budget text devoted to social debt. Even if I can understand that this is a way of "creating" the subject, as you say, rapporteur, acknowledge that you have put the plough before the ox and that the work is far from being completed, so it is difficult to talk about a new branch of autonomy within our social security system. Indeed, the old age and autonomy bill, which should have been the cornerstone and the founding text, was rejected again in 2021. In doing so, we are depriving ourselves of a necessary reflection on the place that our society recognizes for the elderly when dependency occurs. We must ask ourselves what we look at it and propose a real societal project that considers them to be citizens in their own right and an integral part of our republican pact. That is why, throughout our discussions, I have regularly recalled my disagreement over the permanent and voluntarily maintained confusion between dependency and loss of autonomy. These two notions are not synonymous: dependence is the partial or total impossibility of carrying out without help the acts of daily life, while autonomy refers to the rights and ability of each individual to determine and act freely. Loss of autonomy is the loss of a right, dependence a state. This distinction is important because it will enable us to give meaning to our public policy in this area by clearly displaying an objective: to accompany people in situations of dependency by adding disability to enable them to retain, or even expand, their right to autonomy as long as possible. It is therefore a question of creating a risk of dependence within a branch devoted to autonomy, and the word "risk" must be understood as a social risk, in the same way as sickness, maternity, disability or old age, i.e. an event which, when it occurs, affects an individual's social, financial or economic position. On the other hand, a public policy in favour of support for autonomy cannot be reduced to the field of the elderly. I repeat this again, as I have repeated throughout the debate: it must include people with disabilities, regardless of their age. The autonomy branch will, as you say to the envi ronment, be a major step forward or a historic moment, since the effectiveness of rights will enable everyone, regardless of their age or disability, to exercise their freedom to choose their place of life, and these rights will be part of the principles of territorial fairness and equal treatment, whether in terms of benefits or offers of service. We do, however, distinguish a small glimmer of hope, Madam Minister Delegate, in your title, since you are "in charge of autonomy." Don't let us down! However, our group reiterates its scepticism about these two bills, which address the subject only in terms of the budget framework. As it stands, you do not create a new branch of social security: you simply adapt the framework of the law on the financing of social security by grouping together two sub-objectives of ONDAM already existing, and, from 2024, you allocate to the CNSA a fraction of CSG representing 2.3 billion euros, while the need for financing is estimated to be between 7 and 10 billion euros. On the other hand, the Libertés et Territoires Group has already expressed its views on the transfer to the CADES of 136 billion euros, including 13 billion hospital debt. He considered that the debt generated by the covid-19 had to be borne by the State budget, such as hospital debt. The State should have kept its promise by resuming it itself, as it announced last November and as it did for SNCF's debt. Thus, this transfer has the effect of extending the levy on the social debt repayment contribution and the life of the CADES until 2033. Given its opposition to the transfer of hospital debt to CADES and its questions about the scope and financing of this fifth branch, the Libertés et territoires group will not support these two bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u17	Too bad you don't want to sign up for the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u18	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u19	[["Ah! » on several benches]] My dear compatriots, this spring, during the crisis of the covid, I promised you: I changed. We need to get off the beaten track, ideologies, reinvent ourselves, and I'm the first. And, after reflection, to reinvent myself, to break up, to get off the beaten track, to the happy days and everything, I thought of something.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u20	The tie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u21	We're gonna do some load relief! It's never before seen, it's original, it's disruptive! For young people, for her to get a job at school, what do we do? We're reducing the burden on businesses. To relocate industry, drugs, food, clothing, what do we do? We're reducing the burden on businesses. Are the yellow vests protesting? We're reducing the burden on businesses. Jeannot Castex and I are connected to this. Do you have prostate problems? We're reducing the burden on businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u22	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u23	The peeling skin? We're reducing the burden on businesses. Are the toilets clogged?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u24	There's a lot of bottom here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u25	We're not in the theater here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u26	We're reducing the burden on businesses. That's the breakup. It's true...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u27	What's true is that you didn't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u28	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] ...that the charges have already been eased before the crisis. But it was different: the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and the exit tax, the introduction of the flat tax were the reliefs "before"...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u29	He hasn't changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u30	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u31	... while here are the reliefs "after". Let us not play on words, these reliefs and those reliefs have nothing to do with it. Don't you understand? Like cholesterol, now, reliefs can be good or bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u32	And your arguments are slight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u33	Before, the reliefs benefited the rich, the shareholders, the Sanofi, Engie and the company – that's the whole difference with the reliefs "after". I have heard some comment, chipoter, considering that, rather than favouring only these large companies, it would be better to target the reliefs, to the benefit of SMEs, artisans, ecology, blablabla and so on. But imagine the complications, the red tape, if we begin to sort between the beneficiaries of the reliefs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u34	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u35	And then, we must respect the principle of equality, to which we are all committed: it seems to me important that equal treatment be reserved for the company Total and your organic market garden, in order to avoid too much favoring it over the former. In short, relief for everyone is our project!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u36	We're still waiting for your argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u37	François Hollande, too, lightened the charges. To quote a document found in my current office at the Élysée, which dates from the time I advised him, the liability pact is "based on a simple principle: less burden on work for companies [...] and a counterpart: more hiring". At that time, we announced that this EUR 100 billion expenditure would create 1 million jobs – a figure taken up, among other things, on our Medef pine. So much so if we are still waiting for the counterparties; They'll come one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u38	You're confusing burden relief and lightness, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u39	Even before François Hollande's term of office, Nicolas Sarkozy's 2010 declaration also mentioned: "What was the French economy suffering from? [...] Not enough investment, because of the burdens on businesses. [...] It was therefore urgent to restore competitiveness. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u40	At least he did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u41	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] Still before, Jacques Chirac...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u42	Listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u43	They are not the ones who will silence me, you know, Mr. President. Jacques Chirac, therefore, declared in 2002: "Today a truth is needed: it is the reduction of burdens that is the most powerful tool [...] to reduce unemployment. Before that, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing announced that companies would be exempt from income tax and social security contributions. They've been repeating the same speech for thirty years! Some will say it didn't work. So what? Is that a reason to get discouraged, try another policy? No, we must persevere, pay more, lighten more. Above all, we must move from "before" reliefs, from the old world, from old school, to "after" reliefs. So, together with Jeannot Castex, if we offer some relief, they are not the same as those of MM. Giscard, Chirac, Sarkozy and company; Ours are resilient. Here's the breakup! That's what it's like to get out of the box, to reinvent yourself! With us, the challenge is permanent; we offer new recipes, a change of software. Anyway, it's the imagination in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u44	Only a minute to bear...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM, and LR groups]] But it is on the budget that we are most completely, brilliantly, disruptive. As we ease the burden, which inevitably leads to a loss of revenue, and adds to the debts of social security, we are at the same time launching a fifth branch of social security, for old age risk, without a round. Isn't that magic money, an accounting miracle, total disruption? Long live the Republic, live France and enjoy your holidays!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u46	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u47	Despite some disagreements, the examination of these two texts by the two parliamentary chambers allowed them to get closer on the broad lines: the social security recovery of the social debt that we will call "covid debt" and the inclusion in the marble of the law of a fifth branch, that of autonomy. After the work carried out in the special committee, the Assembly therefore debated a text which was identical to that adopted a month ago in a final reading. In short, the question seemed to be heard and the main issues raised by the text seemed to be settled. By this draft organic law, the legislator is about to extend until 2033 the social debt resulting from the crisis of the covid-19; EUR 15.5 billion of compulsory levies on business income will continue to be spent on its discharge until that date. At the same time, real uncertainties weigh on the balance of social security accounts in the short and medium term. The best example is the rejection shared on several benches of the gold rule proposed by the Senate. In addition, there are many uncertainties regarding the application of the Segur of Health, the negotiations on the fifth branch, the reform of pensions, which has been relaunched, and the consequences of the recession on the dynamics of contributions. Finally, the group Écologie Démocratie Solidarité can only regret that the Government is depriving itself of resources that could have enabled, by 2024, to respond to this immense challenge of the twenty-first century: dependence. This is the great contradiction of these two bills: whereas the social security code includes a fifth branch, that of autonomy, the financing that could have been devoted to it is renounced, the CRDS – the contribution to the reduction of social debt – being de facto extended by ten years. So we are about to legislate despite many uncertainties and a great contradiction. The subjects we are discussing are crucial, however, and would have deserved a much more in-depth debate, in view of the consequences of the two main provisions. Every Member present in this House must be aware of the consequences of maintaining the CRDS, especially for small incomes, and of the need to succeed in reforming dependency. In the absence of clear and legible measures regarding its financing – since the tax issue seems already settled – there is no guarantee that the promise of progress formulated in these texts can be followed up. Parliament is urged to wait for the conference of financiers; It is not certain that he is better informed when considering the next Social Security Financing Bill than he is today. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary shuttle did not calm the concerns of the group Ecology Democracy Solidarity. We regret that Members of Parliament are dispossessed of their voice on this key issue, as these bills lose the flexibility that the welfare state needs to adapt to the major challenges of the 21st century. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and SOC groups]] Although we welcome the creation of a fifth branch, which is absolutely indispensable, we are still waiting for the guarantees that will reassure us of the reality of its effects on the daily lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u48	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u49	The crisis that we are beginning to experience has triggered the one, health, of the covid -19, but it does not boil down to it: it will be global, large, long and will lead us to adaptations or even to heavy transformations. French society has already demonstrated its ability to adapt; Let's promise she'll be able to do it again. But it will be impossible if the financial constraints are too severe. By providing massive aid, compensation, payment and financing, the Government has in fact increased the debt. However, it is only possible to contract new debts if they are manageable and if the prospects for repayment are reasonable. The financial balance is shaken and the social security balance will be affected in terms of both revenue and expenditure. As the Government has indicated, the projected deficits for 2020 alone will be close to EUR 52 billion, an amount never reached even at the height of the consequences of the 2008 crisis. A new transfer of the debt from social security to the CADES has thus emerged as the most obvious solution, in order to be able to amortise it. Thus, the texts we are looking at today are intended to allow this body to cover the deficits accumulated by the basic social security schemes. This transfer will relieve the cash flow of ACOSS and, above all, will enable our country to respect the doctrine that social debt must be amortized, so as not to weigh the burden of today's benefits on our children. It is imperative that the debt disappear through progressive amortization, even if the circumstances lead to a postponement of the debt. If it is logical that contributions to social security finance benefits without postponing their weight on the future, it is difficult to comply with this rule. So, and that does not make anyone happy, the date of debt amortization has been postponed, but the will to do so has been maintained and we are now putting in place measures to that end. Some of my fellow parliamentarians have expressed the wish to see the organic bill establish a golden rule, to force the management of this debt a little more. While we Members of the Group of the European People's Party support the idea of moving towards a golden rule, we believe that this initiative is premature, particularly in view of the urgency of the examination of this text and, moreover, too isolated, in the absence of a more comprehensive framework for reforming the procedure for the examination of social security financing bills. It seems to us better to start a more in-depth reflection, in particular by taking into account future developments in the next PLFSS, which will integrate this fifth risk. A rigorous management of social debt is all the more necessary in view of the challenge of old age and autonomy. Our country will face an unprecedented event in the years to come: an increasing number of insured persons will have to be protected, and cross-cutting solutions imagined. It was parliamentary work that led to the reflection on the fifth risk. The special committee, on the initiative of the rapporteur, to which I pay tribute, has intended to carry out its responsibilities by taking a firm position in favour of the creation of a fifth branch, that of autonomy. Of course, this risk was already covered by national solidarity through the APA and the PCH, but this definition of a fifth risk will make it possible to distinguish a fifth branch complementing the four historical branches of the general regime. Undoubtedly, during the review of the PLFSS for 2021 it will be necessary to be vigilant about the revenue allocated to this branch, in order to grant the means to satisfy this ambition, but this first step of a staircase to be built collectively rejoices all the players in the sector. Let us not be mistaken, the ambitions displayed will remain in vain if the necessary resources are not affected very quickly: it is important, and urgent. Similarly, attention will have to be paid to the governance of this branch by maintaining a balance between CNSA and the departments, which are already working well together on these issues. For this fifth risk, it will also be necessary to break down approaches. Indeed, the French health system relies on multiple structures: health care for hospital care; medico-social and social for so-called fragile audiences – elderly or disabled people for example –; outpatients for so-called city care. While this organization is rather effective and we all recognize that professionals are doing a remarkable job, for several years the public authorities have been encouraging the establishment of a "path medicine" capable of improving the care of patients and residents throughout the territory and of breaking down the sectors. The main objective of this approach is to prevent, treat and accompany patients and residents in a comprehensive and continuous manner, as close as possible to their homes. The awareness of this issue is therefore very real. However, the facts are stubborn and much remains to be done in the overall and open-ended care of people, in order to direct our system towards "care". This concept is based on the desire to treat a person rather than a sick person, and involves thinking about the relationship to any individual who needs care or accompaniment with empathy, taking into account his social and professional context, in proximity and benevolence – a term that is widely used nowadays, but which well calls the humanity that care requires. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us seize the opportunity of creating this fifth branch to act effectively and put the human back at the heart of the devices. That is the meaning that will have to be given to the implementation of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as the "my health 2022" law, to the future law on the old age and autonomy and to the long-awaited overhaul of our health system. These must be opportunities to take care of the French. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u50	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u51	Here we are to load the social security boat with a debt for which it is not accountable. What's up, anyway? We were used to the growing number of exemptions from social security contributions that weaken the resources of social security. In the last draft of the Social Security Financing Act, the Government had also broken a taboo, that of compensating for exemptions. Today we are taking another step forward, thanks to the events: with a pen trait, the social debt amortization fund pays 136 billion euros in debts. You do not make any details, adding up existing debt and future debt, decreases in revenue related to activity reduction, exemptions and additional expenses. The State is defying itself with the pre-crisis commitment on hospital debt. You will then have a good game to explain that social security is in debt and must therefore restrict its ambitions, to reduce it to a minimum safety net and open the door wide to for-profit insurance dealers. An inescapable discussion should have taken place on the financing of covid-19 expenditure; You swept it away so as not to deny yourself and continue in the unequal path you have chosen. But to make a good figure, you take care to place a nice label on a jar without jam: and here the legislator becomes advertising. It was therefore announced that a fifth branch of social security had been created, the idea of which had been circulating in the corridors of the high administration since the early 2000s without having found a taker so far. One of the features of macroism is to bring out the plans of the drawers and call it courage, without always asking too many questions. Another of its characteristics lies in marketing and the use of communication: we have been so accustomed to seeing the Government deal with real problems with false solutions! In this case, the promotion of self-reliance is an urgent and essential task. For years, we have been offering a high level of social protection, integrating the costs of losing autonomy and maintaining it. For years, we have been pointing to the low remuneration of staff and the lack of adequate public service. Today we have no guarantee that this announcement will honour these demands. What we know is that it will divide the health insurance which guarantees the right to health, without being certain that there will ultimately be a social benefit. What we know is that it will be based on another method of funding and conducted in a different way of governance. What we are afraid of is that it will create a great deal of confusion between public and social budgets, but also between the general interest and private interests. Once again, this great social invention, so damaged by the erosion inflicted on it by the triumphant neoliberalism of recent decades, is remodeled without the real participation of the social actors. Social security needs social re-appropriation and renewed ambition, which has been set out in the European Union's calls for the reduction of social expenditure and its injunctions to open markets. We need a great political act for autonomy. It is an issue that has finally become inescapable in the eyes of all; It is also a vast field of social inequalities. We need a high level of support; Today, it is not in line with needs. We need a great public service of autonomy, entirely rethought with its staff, placing the person and his emancipation in his heart. It is necessary to get the merchants out of the temple, not to admit that we use the fragility and needs of a part of us to grow dividends – what is called the silver economy. All this is insane: this money must be made socially useful. It would also have been opportune to move forward by first looking at the stakes; The Government has paid particular attention to what shines. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] No more than we will validate this decision at 136 billion, when you complain to the public hospital what he rightly demands under applause, we will not affix our logo at the bottom of this communication campaign. We want actions that are thought out, shared, sincere, real. Don't fire too many fireworks tonight, because in these issues, everything calls for humility and action. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this bill re-creating the social security hole and announcing a mechanism for autonomy of which no one knows anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u52	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u53	Once again, we will refer to the organic and ordinary bills on social debt and autonomy. France was hit hard by an unprecedented health crisis, in which the Government introduced measures to accompany the largest number of citizens, each according to its particular situation. In fact, social security has to cope with a major financial shock...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u54	And a hell of a hole!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u55	... which has inevitable consequences for the management of social debt. With an estimated projected deficit in 2020 of 52 billion and an outstanding debt of ACOSS, which is close to the ceiling authorised by the Social Security Finance Act for 2020 – a ceiling already increased twice since the beginning of the health crisis – there is an urgent need to ensure the need for social security funding to ensure that benefits are paid to beneficiaries. This is why the Organic Bill introduces the extension of the CADES until 2033. The ordinary bill, for its part, introduces a debt transfer of 136 billion, to restore the cash agility that ACOSS needs, but also to allow hospitals to have additional financial margins so that, with the measures of the Segur of Health, their situation will improve. I will not go back to the disagreement between the two chambers; I'm sorry. In the current circumstances, it contradicts the health and medical-social policy led by the Prime Minister and the Government. Through this choice, we preserve the social protection system so dear to the French, and we establish the conditions for the expression of national solidarity for a true project of society. This is indeed the case, since we are creating a new risk in the sense of social security, the support for autonomy, managed within a new branch, that of autonomy. This is a major social advance, often mentioned and always rejected, which, I am convinced, will be a landmark in the history of social security. The aim will be to anchor the specific needs related to age and disability in a more identified and visible way in the organisation of social security. It will also be a question of organising a financing engineering to accompany the demographic transition of France. By 2040, the number of people aged 85 and over will be three and a half times higher than today's. As early as 2021, an additional $1 billion will be allocated to self-government aid expenditure. The Minister of Health, Olivier Véran, committed himself to this during the debate at first reading and you reaffirmed it, Madam Minister Delegate; Thank you. Health Segur measures spend $2.5 billion on investment in EHPADs. In 2024, a fraction of the CSG equivalent to 2.3 billion per year will complement these financings. The fifth branch will be managed by CNSA, which has the skills and experience related to this issue. It will also be a matter of including longevity in our society. With the creation of the fifth branch, we lay the foundation for the law on old age and autonomy, which we all expect. Finally, this creation initiates the policy of autonomy that we want to defend. At the risk of being redundant, and echoing Jeanine Dubie's comments, I would point out that autonomy refers to freedom of choice. In this sense, it is a right; It is also the ability of a person to perform the acts of daily life. When this capacity is reached, we are talking about dependency, a lasting condition leading to incapacity and requiring help to carry out the acts of daily life. The recognition of the risk of loss of autonomy and the creation of the branch are therefore real opportunities to strengthen the rights and quality of life of those concerned, and to accelerate the inclusive transition process. This is an inescapable societal challenge, the health crisis having revealed the immense fragility of those who are disabled or elderly, and the major risk facing them: isolation, which leads them with certainty to an even greater vulnerability. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the La République en Marche group will vote in favour of the ordinary bill and the organic bill. Personally, I will vote in their favour with pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u56	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u57	The health crisis that France has just suffered now leaves room for an economic and social crisis of an unprecedented scale, which we cannot measure today. Bills legitimately attract our attention, as the health crisis has had a profound impact on our public and social spending. With the measures taken by the Government during confinement to help businesses and maintain jobs – measures that we voted for – it was necessary to resort to exceptional and large-scale public aid, unfortunately once again financed by debt. To that end, the Government had requested that the debt of 136 billion be transferred to CADES, thereby delaying the termination of the fund, originally planned for 2024, to 2033 or even 2042. We can already cast doubts about the budgetary sincerity of this proposal: the announced date of 2033 is based only on projections based on fragile macroeconomic assumptions, in an uncertain context where forecasts are difficult – if not impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u59	Furthermore, it should be noted that the Government relies a massive share of this debt on CADES and makes no commitment to savings from the State budget, which would nevertheless be significant and appreciated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u60	Everything's fine, Mrs. Marquise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u61	Thus, the Government does not mention anywhere the State's compensation for social security, including compensation for the desocialization of overtime and emergency measures taken in the wake of the yellow vest crisis, which weigh on social finances and which would nevertheless provide funding. A distinction must be made between excessive budgetary rigour, which can sometimes be a worse remedy than the crisis, and fiscal seriousness, which is a matter of the proper management of public funds entrusted to us by our fellow citizens and which does not seem to be part of the concerns of the Government and its majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u63	We've made this difference for three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u64	Indeed, the Senate adopted an amendment incorporating into the Organic Law a golden rule that should govern future social security financing laws, in order to stop constantly feeding CADES with new deficits. Of course, and unsurprisingly, the majority voted against the Senate's amendments again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u65	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u66	In fact, since the yellow vest crisis, the Government has initiated unfunded measures, the bill of which is sent to our social security system, which does not have the role of financing purchasing power schemes. One of the reasons for these deficits was the lack of compensation by the State for the relief measures decided under the previous social security financing laws and the text containing various economic and social emergency measures, for an estimated annual amount of 5 billion. The Ségur de la santé predicts that the state will recover 13 billion of the hospital's debt, which will be paid by the social insured. This debt recovery also poses a serious problem of sincerity and method. Indeed, by transferring this debt to the CADES, itself financed by contributions, the State actually transfers it to the French themselves. Since this is a political decision here, it should be obvious that the State assumes its choice. This would, incidentally, allow me to say so and not without irony, to free up room for manoeuvre. It is clear that the state must help and support the economy in this particular period. The political decision cannot be taken without the rigour and seriousness required to manage our accounts. We agree that the CADES will resume its social debt due to exceptional circumstances. On the other hand, we are against the false resumption of the debt of hospitals financed by contributions. If we are not necessarily opposed to the principle of the fifth branch, we do not have to vote for half a text. Because between the vote on this bill and the implementation of the measure, four PLFSS will be considered by Parliament; At the same time, a presidential election, parliamentary elections and two partial renewals of the Senate were held. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all the reasons given, the Republicans group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u67	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u68	After intense and intense debate, we are about to vote definitively on these two bills, both organic and ordinary, which include extremely important and engaging measures on the future of our social security system. Whether financial or structural, the MODEM Group will support them with a spirit of full responsibility. First of all, the massive transfer of debt to the CADES and the extension of its life to 2033 are imperative, at a time when the projected social security deficit for 2020 will reach EUR 52 billion. The exceptional nature of the health crisis calls for large-scale measures, which involve enormous amounts of money. In order to cope with an unprecedented economic shock, we consider it essential to extend the amortisation period of this social debt, in order to relieve the cash flow of ACOSS and to avoid any risk of default; It is also a question of perpetuating the fundamental principle of progressive depreciation with a fixed deadline, so that future generations do not suffer from the needs of the current context. This €136 billion is a short-term response, while providing us with the room for manoeuvre necessary to meet the health and social challenges of the coming decades. While the two texts before us present a particularly technical and financial aspect, they also include measures of great humanity. Who among us and which Frenchman does not wonder about his end of life and that of those close to him? It is for this reason that this day, perhaps not yet historic, because much work remains to be done, is to be marked with a white stone – I have collected one in the garden of the Assembly to join the gesture with the word. (Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille lays a white stone on the stand of the gallery – Smiles.) For two reasons. The first is that the creation of the fifth branch of social security dedicated to autonomy will be approved today, on the initiative of the National Assembly and, in particular, the deputies of the majority. Thank you and congratulations to everyone! The second is that with this stone, we lay the foundations of this fifth branch: no, we do not vote for an empty shell, we lay the foundations of a branch dedicated to the prevention of loss of autonomy and the management of dependence in all its forms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u70	... especially the one related to the old age. Let us remember that, while France has the highest life expectancy, it also has, alas, the record life expectancy in poor health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u72	The issue of prevention, so dear to our group, must be a priority, as must the development and attractiveness of all the professions in the sector. The aim is to incorporate this reform into a genuine public health policy. This will allow us to reflect, with all stakeholders, on the architecture of this new branch, its territorial organisation and its governance. To do so, we will all have to show political courage in order to arbitrate this question! For funding, the bill provides – even though we know that this is insufficient, but social security has not been achieved in one day – for the fifth branch to have 0.15 points of CSG, i.e. 2.5 billion euros per year, starting in 2024. The Government, thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, has also pledged to put EUR 1 billion on the table for the loss of autonomy, as soon as the next PLFSS. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Madam Minister-in-Office, the members of the MODEM Group are happy, and you will be able to count on them to invest, with all the energy and conviction we know, in order to bring this reform to fruition. Thus, as he did at first and second reading, our group will vote in favour of these two bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u73	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u74	The two bills that you are proposing to pass today represent a further flight forward on the debt of social security and the policy of accompanying the loss of autonomy. Run forward, because you choose to transfer to social security the debts incurred by the State. You will tell us tomorrow that social spending must be reduced, because the social debt is unsustainable: but, Madam Minister Delegate, the social debt is 100 per cent the debt of the state. The reality is that social debt, the real one, no longer exists. It was extinguished thanks to the efforts of the hospitals and the sacrifices of the caregivers. There is no longer, strictly speaking, any structural imbalance in the general social security system. What constitutes the current social debt is, in reality, the second largest State fund, the one in which the Government decides to store the debt it does not want to bear. Run forward, because in order to repay the debt of the State unjustly passed on to social security, you decide, in these two bills, to transfer to CADES 136 billion euros of debt over nine years. This choice has been widely contested by many economists, as well as by the High Council on Social Protection Financing. The special nature of this debt, due to the crisis of the covid-19, commanded to treat it in a particular way and to place it in the crown of the state. This solution had many advantages, as the State borrows on much more favourable terms than social agencies. The second advantage lies in the nature of the debts concerned and the consequences thereof. Since 1996, the debt of social security has been amortized, so full repayment, including interest and capital: the annuality of the debt must therefore tend towards zero in social matters. The debt of the State, however, is managed in the long term: the State bears only interest and reborrows continuously and indefinitely the principal, which is called "turning the debt". Runs ahead, because your choice to make social security bear the debts incurred by the State is likely to increase the margins of manoeuvre of social spending and eventually lead to new fiscal austerity measures in the area of social security. Moreover, this decision to weaken social security is still in the midst of a health crisis. A rebound in the epidemic is not to be ruled out, and we will need a solid public hospital, ready to face the worst health crisis that the country has experienced since the Spanish flu of 1918. Run forward, as the annual cost of the covid-19 debt would be EUR 1.5 billion, which corresponds to the interest, if it had been borne by the State. The transfer of this debt to CADES deprives the nation's social policy of some ten billion euros. These funds could have been invested in the public hospital, the EHPADs and the accompaniment of elderly people losing their autonomy. You choose to charge the debt to those we applauded every night at 8:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u75	That's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u76	Indeed, even if I welcome the announcement of salary increases for caregivers, I know too well that it is in health spending that you will seek to make budget cuts to repay the villainous debt that you are transferring to social security. Run forward, since by deciding to extend the CADES until 2033, you actually increase the taxes of the French. The contribution to the repayment of the social debt, which was due to expire in 2024, will be maintained nine more years: it is therefore nine years of additional levies for the French! Note that the tax you extend is proportional to the wage: it is not progressive and does not increase with wealth, unlike income tax. So you decide to extend the payment of a tax which affects the poor more strongly than the rich and which weighs more heavily on our most vulnerable fellow citizens: that is the truth you will have to bear! Finally, with regard to the creation of the fifth branch of social security relating to autonomy, we welcome the announcement and intention of the Government. But let's face it: for now, it's not just an announcement. You're not saying anything about the way you design this industry, about its governance or about its financing. This is where there is a wolf, because, so far, we were counting on the CRDS to finance part of the fifth branch, but you just buried that possibility. So I wonder: Is the creation of a fifth branch an inconsequential ad? Is funding planned and, if so, which? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Madam Deputy Minister, we would like to be able to vote for the creation of this fifth branch, but you will not have our confidence in this text because of leaks from various unknowns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u77	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u78	The best for the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u79	The IDU and independent group has already had the opportunity to express before this House its reservations about this bill. I will therefore not go back to the EUR 136 billion debt transfer mechanism: we understand the need to protect social security and avoid weakening ACOSS. This decision to extend the social debt will still have to be questioned. The existence of the CADES, which is supposed to be provisional, is progressively perpetuated. However, it is not a good policy for future generations to bear the burden of today's social protection expenditure. By definition, these expenditures only benefit current generations. We are also surprised that you have not adopted the five-year golden rule proposed by our colleagues in the Senate. This commitment would have been a sign of fiscal seriousness, as well as a signal to future generations. With regard to the EUR 13 billion in hospital debt transferred to CADES, we also discussed it. It is, in our view, a breach of the contract of departure, because it was up to the State to take back this sum to restore oxygen to hospitals. You have a different reading, and we regret it. As for the loss of autonomy and the creation of a fifth branch, our group is of course in favour of this. Our current model seems breathless: it is time to face the reality of the demographic evolution of our country and to give the elderly their full citizenship, dignity and right to good living conditions. However, caution must be exercised when announcing measures without adding the corresponding funding. The announcements in question engage you, as they raise legitimate expectations, in communities, among professionals and among citizens – I am thinking in particular of caregivers. Dependence is a matter of concern or even suffering for many of our compatriots. For years, public policies have been stumbling down on the question of financing the loss of autonomy. It is true that the draft law provides for the allocation of EUR 2.3 billion to dependency from 2024 onwards. Of course, we welcome the decision to provide it with sustainable financing, but in 2024 we will need 6 billion euros and 10 billion euros in 2030. What trajectory do you propose for the years 2021 to 2024? In reality, the needs already exist, exacerbated by the epidemic of covid-19. A major social issue, the great age deserved to be studied alone, on the occasion of a dedicated text. I note in passing the blurring of the timetable for the review of the bill on the old age: will it really be integrated into the PLFSS for 2021? This is one of the top priorities of the quinquennium! [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I groups and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Thus, at the end of the parliamentary shuttle, the IDU and independent group will maintain its position of majority abstention on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u80	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u81	We come to the vote on the draft organic law in the text adopted by the National Assembly on new reading, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out that the adoption of this text for final reading requires an absolute majority of the members of the House, i.e. 287 votes. The vote is open for thirty minutes in the rooms adjacent to the Chamber. It will therefore be closed at 1645 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u82	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u83	The meeting was resumed. The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 430 Number of votes cast 387 Absolute majority 287 For adoption 331 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u84	I put to the vote the whole of the ordinary bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u85	The next item is the final reading of the Budget and Account Approval Bill for 2019 (3240, 3249).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u86	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u87	My colleague Olivier Dussopt, Minister of Public Accounts, being selected in the Senate for the debate on the direction of public finances, I am pleased to meet you for this final reading of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill, following its re-reading by the Senate. I would like to thank all parliamentarians for their work in enriching the debate and clarifying important points that deserve our attention. This stage of the year offers an opportunity to carry out a careful check on last year's expenditure. A particular moment in our legislative timetable, it allows us to achieve a more exemplary and transparent management of public finances. As Olivier Dussopt reminded the Senate yesterday, this year again, the emphasis was placed on three aspects: trust, responsibility and, more importantly, budgetary sincerity. These three pillars were those of the Government in 2019, they are in 2020 and will be in 2021. The bill before you takes stock of an ambitious budget, first of all because the Government has focused on investment, increasing investment spending by 12% since 2017 and by 5% between 2018 and 2019. In 2019, several measures aimed to strengthen purchasing power: an increase in the activity premium, an increase in the social minimums, an increase in the minimum old age and an increase in the adult disability benefit. Priority was also given to education and research. We have made this possible by increasing the budget for education and research by almost EUR 1 billion, an effort accompanied by the doubling of certain primary classes. Through the Skills Investment Plan – ICP – we have chosen, through this budget, to encourage the training of low- and low-skilled job seekers and young people away from the labour market. The means were also put in the field of security with the strengthening of the resources of the armed forces: the expenditure of the "Defence" mission increased by 4.4% compared to 2018 thanks to the additional appropriations of 1.7 billion euros in 2019. Finally, the Government has supported the fight against climate change, in which it has invested by providing an increase of 446 million in the funds of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" compared to 2019. As requested by the President of the Republic, this budget also helped to finance ADEME, the Agency for the Ecological Transition. I recall this as my colleagues have done, because I think it is important to stress this before the forthcoming opening of the debate on the bill to finance social security: the national objective of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – before the health crisis and the Ségur de la santé – has been raised to its highest level in the last ten years. The President of the Republic and the Government had committed themselves to this, and we kept to it: this bill is that of the sincerity of budgeting. Indeed, we have made the ambitious budgetary choices that I have just presented to you with the utmost attention to the budgetary sincerity of the law. The reserve level was 8% in 2017; It is 3 per cent for this budget. In terms of management too, the carry-overs of appropriations have been at their lowest level since 2006, now amounting to EUR 1.9 billion in the general budget. The bulk of the cancellations under the amending finance law concerned the appropriations put in reserve. This commitment to a reorganisation and sequencing of public accounts could not have been achieved without the collective work of program managers, budget management and the Directorate-General for Public Finance. It would of course not have been possible either without the work of the parliamentarians. Allow me to thank the majority for their unwavering support to the Government. In order to facilitate your action, the Government has anticipated the year-end amending finance law, passed on 26 November and promulgated on 2 December 2019, which has led to a more calm budget schedule, giving more visibility to the management plan. In addition, you have been able to deal with this bill fifteen days in advance, largely because of the efficiency of the budget administration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] All these elements will allow us, I hope, to deal with the next finance law in good terms. I hope that the work we have done together will continue. I have full confidence in our ability to extend the efforts already made in terms of transparency, exemplaryness and budgetary seriousness. I am convinced that they will be the solid foundation that will enable us to revive our economy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u88	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u89	As we begin the final reading of the 2019 Settlement Bill, we can choose between two options. One is to repeat the same things as when examining the text at first reading and again reading; the other, to politicize the subject, an option chosen by the Senate, which explains the absence of a joint concluding committee. I understand very well that our colleagues in this chamber wanted to turn this text into a political subject. However, we disagree on its purpose. For example, my Senate counterpart, Alberic de Montgolfier, considers that the management of public finances adopted in 2019 is insufficient in the face of the crisis. I think exactly the opposite, with regard to our action over the past three years in the area of simmering and serious budgetary matters – as the minister has said. In the previous debate, Mr Ramadier called not to confuse austerity with budgetary seriousness: I can only endorse this statement! What we have been doing for the past three years is serious budget: we do not cut public spending blindly and we transform public action by doing better with less. This ability to provide room for manoeuvre, to manage our public balances and our debt well, allows us today to cope with the crisis by using massively robust tools, and thus to debt ourselves to a very large extent, but necessary both because of the urgency and for the recovery. There are two distinct points of view. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] In any case, it is important to stop for a moment on 2019, which is the last normal year of the quinquennium, the last year of good weather before the next two fiscal years. If I qualify the public financial management adopted in 2019 as good, it is not the effect of a stupid and mean belief or activism, but of the examination of the figures: the public deficit is 2.1%, excluding the impact of the transformation of the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, in decline of contributions. Give me a single government that has managed to have a public deficit of less than 3% more than two consecutive years! The one supported by this majority is the only one who has succeeded. Give me a single government that has simultaneously managed to control public debt, reduce the level of compulsory levies and stabilize the public debt for more than two consecutive years! This government and this majority have succeeded! This morning, Gilles Carrez gave a long, very interesting and fair speech on public debt. What matters, he said, is not only whether we are in debt for good or bad reasons, but also how far we can get into debt, and why we have an additional debt capacity. In the information report on the public debt that I presented to the Finance Committee a few weeks ago – available in all the good bookstores as well as in the National Assembly Library – I say that what matters is not the debt ratio, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u90	I do, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u91	... nor whether we have crossed the fateful threshold of 100% of GDP, but why we continue to lend money – in other words, the evolution of the quality of France's signature during the crisis. My work has led to a conclusion that may seem baroque: the crisis has strengthened the quality of France's signature. Indeed, the action we have been taking over the past three years and the quality of our response to the crisis have strengthened the confidence of our creditors in French debt. Thus, when we issued new debt securities, the demand for financial markets exceeded supply. It must be borne in mind that the crisis has strengthened our credibility in the financial markets and has not weakened the quality of the French signature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u92	It's dangerous as a speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u93	This is not a dangerous speech, dear colleague. What is dangerous is to consider that the debt may not be repaid, and that we can go into debt without limits, ad vitam æternam. That's not my point. I'm just saying that the quality of the management of our public accounts over the past three years, and especially in 2019, has allowed us to face the crisis, using debt under the best market conditions in the world. Together with the United States and Germany, our country enjoys the best refinancing conditions in the world. It is not dangerous to say this: such a speech is realistic and factual. However, this debt will have to be repaid. In this context, the draft cantonment of part of the public debt presented by the Minister of Economy and Finance is of particular importance. The same applies to the draft organic and ordinary law on social debt and autonomy, which we adopted a few minutes ago, including a debt transfer to CADES, the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, amounting to 136 billion euros. Budget sincerity is not incidental, as we have maintained the reserve rate at 3% since the beginning of the quinquennium and no advance decree was presented in 2019. These guarantees of the quality of the good management of public accounts are taken into account by those who lend us. This is also an important point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by recalling that we are not voting on a technical text alone: we are, of course, closing the 2019 accounts, but we are also voting for permission to respond to the crisis, as well as the conditions for a massive response. As a national representative, it is important for us to be fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u94	In the general debate, the floor is in Mrs Zivka Park.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u95	After two readings of the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2019 by each of the two chambers, and an unconclusive joint committee, we met one last time to approve it, after a final reading. Our work, in reviewing this text, is primarily to ensure that the appropriations committed under the original finance law are properly implemented, and that the public deficit is controlled during its completion, so as not to aggravate our public debt. The Government has been criticized for failing to take sufficient advantage of the growth and fall in the debt burden last year to redress the public accounts situation. As a reminder, the general government deficit recorded in 2019 is 3% of GDP. For the third year in a row, this threshold is therefore respected, as the rapporteur-general pointed out. As for public debt, it stood at 98.1% of GDP at the end of 2019, in stability. The expenditure we made in 2019 thus reflects a fully controlled budget execution, in a context characterized by social turbulence that needed to be addressed in an emergency and in a responsible manner. Our work is also, and above all, to ensure that the commitment of funds has served the priorities of the Government's policy for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Our differences and differences, we faced them during the review of the original 2019 finance bill. The debate we are going to have on this bill cannot be the return game of debate that we have already had. The context of the economic and social crisis facing our country imposes on us responsibility. We will shortly adopt the third amending finance bill for 2020, which allows the Government to commit an additional €15.5 billion. For the time being, we need to look at this bill, for final reading, in a spirit of accountability. Let us remember that the continuous improvement in the trajectory of our public finances, as well as the successful execution of the fiscal year 2019 and its excellent results, allow us today to face the crisis and deploy exceptional means to save our economy and to revive it, as well as to accompany and protect the most fragile. I will draw your attention to two points. First of all, the trend in general budget expenditure tends to direct them towards priority policies. Budget implementation in 2019 confirms the Government's strategy, as well as the implementation of its commitments, in particular with regard to the objectives of reducing taxes and supporting purchasing power. For example, €4 billion is spent on upgrading the activity premium, an increase of 52% in the number of beneficiaries compared to 2018. Let us also mention the strengthening of the Regalian budgets, as well as the additional resources allocated to the ecological transition, to transport – you know that this subject is dear to me – and to the economic and social emergency measures that we have taken to respond, as we had to do, to the yellow vest crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Secondly, I would like to point out that budgetary implementation in 2019 has been at the forefront of the issue of the state's financial transfers to local and regional authorities. They are in sharp progress, thanks in particular to the assumption of the rebates of housing tax – which some still deny – in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic, his government and this majority from the beginning of the quinquennium. As a famous quote recalls, "your successes are not made public, your failures are announced with the trumpet"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u96	Bravo! What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u97	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group.– Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Without bragging, and with humility, we have enough to collectively satisfy ourselves with the implementation of the 2019 budget. Now, let us prepare the recovery plan for our country, in order to make it a collective success! We all know that the task will not be easy. This is a real challenge, which we will all have to face together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u98	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u99	France was hit hard by the covid-19 epidemic. The economic impact of the pandemic has been dramatic for our country, and it will be for many months to come. We now know that the French economy is one of the most tested in Europe by the recession and the crisis. The magnitude of the crisis has been somewhat greater every day than the Government had originally anticipated for 2020: a recession of 11 per cent of GDP, a public deficit of 11.4 per cent of GDP, a public expenditure of 66.3 per cent of GDP and a public debt whose amount is exploding, reaching 121 per cent of GDP. Of course, these figures are the direct result of the health crisis and the related long containment. This bill, which we will be passing earlier, deals with last year's accounts, which are well before the crisis; As such, it may seem anachronistic. Yet, by stopping there a little, we will be able to understand why France is experiencing the crisis so hard. Indeed, our country is among the least well off in Europe – Germany manages to limit its recession to 6.3% of GDP and Poland suffers a loss of only 4.6% of GDP. Unlike Germany, France has been unable, in recent years, to undertake structural reforms and to undertake efforts to balance public accounts or to try to desist. On the contrary, public spending has been steadily increasing! Last year, twenty-three of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union fell into debt; France, for its part, was among the five countries whose debt continued to increase. And debt, Mr rapporteur-general, is indeed an important issue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u100	We never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u101	We absolutely must commit our country to the path of deleveraging. All this is all the more regrettable since, from 2017 to 2019, the economic situation, which was very favourable, was conducive to debt relief. Yet, nothing has been done to control spending, take advantage of growth and clean up our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u102	As you have so often proposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u103	On the occasion of the consideration of this bill, the Government welcomes an improvement in the budgetary balance. Looking more closely, however, this is due only to increases in tax revenues, which are about €8 billion higher than the amounts provided for in the original finance law. This dynamism of compulsory levies is not good news; It was not before the crisis and it is not so for our post-covid-19 economy. Indeed, it is feared that this dynamic will be strengthened in the wake of the crisis. However, as we have said for so long, France was already sadly famous for its record rate of compulsory levies in Europe. This bill must be an opportunity for us to change our paradigm and abandon our bad habits of spending too much, too much debt, too much borrowing and too much customs on future generations. Even before the crisis hit us in full swing, the public deficit was 0.1 percentage points higher than expected by the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. Similarly, the effort to restrict public spending remained less than expected. Therefore, the few good news brought about by the bill must absolutely not be put to the credit of the decisions taken by the Government since 2017. For the most part, they stem from exogenous factors. Thus, keeping interest rates at a very low level has reduced the burden of interest on debt, and the increase of €9 billion – a huge figure – in the issue premiums received in 2019 compared to 2018 has reduced its weight in public finances. The way our economy reacts to the crisis proves, if it were still necessary, that our public finances are fragile. The slight improvements highlighted in this text are therefore not due to the Government, but to the economic situation. Our country has been dragged into an unprecedented health crisis that has disrupted its economy, without being sufficiently armed to fight. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hope that France will learn from this upheaval. This crisis was unpredictable; It is our duty, as we know from now on, to prepare ourselves precisely in times of more favourable economic conditions, because today we are paying the high price for this lack of anticipation. Regretting that there has been no desire to improve public finances so far, Members of the Republican Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u104	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u105	Here we are at the end of the review of the 2019 Account Settlement Bill. It is in my view useful to say again what a settlement law is: the amount of expenditure and revenue is finally decided; the proper implementation of a budget is also recognized. This exercise is out of the ordinary, and it must be recognized, as the economic situation that this bill describes is incomparable with the one we are currently encountering. This particular situation must lead us to exercise even more demanding control over the spending of 2019, and requires us to carry out this work with seriousness and sincerity. This check was carried out during a spring of the out-of-the-ordinary evaluation; I would like to take this rostrum once again to commend my fellow Special Rapporteurs for their work under conditions that have become so special because of confinement. This exercise allowed us to look at the crisis in a new light to provide it with the necessary answers and a recovery plan. Expenditure control is a democratic necessity, and the importance of accountability makes us regret the Senate's rejection of the text and the inability to reach agreement at the CMP. Indeed, in addition to its democratic necessity, the draft law shows that the execution was in accordance with the original finance law. I stress again, after others, the lack of recourse to pre-orders. The principle of budgetary sincerity, to which the MODEM Group has always been committed, has thus been respected for the second year in a row. [[Smile]] 2019 was also the year of the implementation of the levy at source – this reminder will please our session chair. This reform has enabled some households, whose incomes have fallen by an average of 5%, to adjust their levies without waiting until next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u106	[[Smile]] He recognizes him himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u107	The administration was thus quite agile during the confinement period. This tool has shown its usefulness. We welcome the successful implementation of the budget, with a deficit of EUR 15 billion lower than that foreseen in the original finance law. This is factual evidence of a good execution. We call for other budgets to this image. This settlement law has also made it possible, as has been said, to finance more policies that we consider to be priorities: support for human capital, with the increase in the investment plan in the skills that you have highlighted, Mr.Minister Delegate, but also the sovereign missions of the State and the environmental and energy transition. Support for these policies, in this time of crisis, is increasingly important to us, and it must continue. Finally, the continuing effort to restore public finances must be underlined and welcomed. The principles of sincerity, seriousness and evaluation have guided our work and must always guide it in the future. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, as you have understood, the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u108	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u109	We are now considering, for final reading, a second bill to regulate a fiscal year under your full responsibility. Unsurprisingly, as at first reading, you welcome the budget implementation for 2019. However, I would like to recall that, for the second year in a row, the government's deficit is on the rise, although it had fallen steadily between 2010 and 2017. The 2019 budget was the one that continued the drastic decline in assisted jobs: there were only 83,000 in 2019, compared to almost 450,000 in 2016. However, these schemes effectively support short-term employment, particularly in the non-market sector, and strengthen social cohesion. I note, however, that the view of the majority on this tool has clearly changed: the announcements of the President of the Republic on 14 July, and then of the Prime Minister in his plan for youth employment unveiled today, mark an inflection. The 2019 budget is the one that has reduced the number of staff of the Ministry of National Education for the first time since 2012. This reduction is even greater than that foreseen in the employment scheme, which envisaged a reduction of 1800 full-time equivalent jobs – FTEs – while 3800 were finally abolished. Amazing priority than abolishing faculty positions in 2019! The 2019 budget is the one that continued the downsizing of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. With you, it's always less customs, always less cash in the territories. The 2019 budget is the one that highlights the fiasco of the Innovation and Industry Fund – IIF – that you created in 2018. I will look into this on the basis of the observations made by the Court of Auditors in its report on the implementation of the 2019 budget. On the one hand, the Court is critical of your debudsmanship practices, which affect the readability of finance dedicated to innovation and are contrary to the principle of budgetary sincerity. On the other hand, she points out that the fund is strangely "maintained in 2020 when it only financed companies up to 20% of its targets over the period 2018-2019". Funding for break-up innovation is therefore largely insufficient. In addition, "the main projects funded are those already funded from the general budget and the IAP – future investment programme. As a result, the Fund did not add value to the traditional budget circuits. So you were about to privatize ADP, a highly strategic group, to abound a fund that is useless. Without the request for a referendum on a shared initiative by the Socialist parliamentarians, the Court of Auditors' report would have come too late. It is time to stop the fiasco of the IIF and to announce the definitive abandonment of the privatization of ADP. The 2019 budget is the one that has not renewed our stock of masks and has reduced the means of Public Health France. Since then, savings have continued, to the detriment of health insurance, to which the funding of Public Health France was transferred in 2020. In the face of the health crisis, it was the latter who had to grant it an exceptional allocation of EUR 4 billion on 30 March last year. The 2019 budget is the one that has undervalued many social benefits; It is also the one who re-aligned the activity premium, under the pressure of the movement of the yellow vests. We approved this re-evaluation. But the state will not be able to replace companies forever to raise small wages. The 2019 budget is finally the one that turned the CICE into a permanent drop in employer social contributions. Today, the annual cost to public finances of all general social contribution relief schemes is approaching EUR 60 billion. However, you have chosen not to compensate social security for the exemptions from contributions: this organised deficit is not sustainable, while it now exceeds EUR 50 billion and you are about to vote for new exemptions. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the 2019 Settlement Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u110	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u111	It is now necessary to pass this 2019 Budget Settlement Bill, in order to be able to begin discussions on the 2021 Finance Bill at the beginning of the year. He has been the subject of many criticisms, notably for his lack of ambition – a reflection of the lack of ambition of the original budget. But we must be clear: while successively adopted amending budgets for 2020 make some of the figures contained in this bill derisory, the Government has at least the merit of having provided sincere accounts, particularly with regard to expenditure, the implementation of which was largely in line with the budget originally voted. However, as we have already had the opportunity to mention it during the discussions in this text, the recovery is incomplete. The Court of Auditors highlighted one observation: the government deficit increased in 2019, from 2.3 points of GDP in 2018 to 3 points in 2019. Although the temporary cost of CICE's shift to burden relief increased the public deficit, the Government was unable to take advantage of three factors that could have enabled it to more firmly redress the public accounts: a 1.5 per cent growth in GDP, an abnormally strong dynamism of compulsory levies and a decrease in the debt burden, notably due to low interest rates. Finally, the absence of an improvement in the structural balance in 2019 means that no effort has been made to reduce public expenditure. For example, the government's budget deficit is on the rise for the second consecutive year, the net balance of the State's assets and liabilities has deteriorated by €74 billion and public debt has reached a peak of €2380 billion. France has reached the European level. Persevering in always delaying efforts has far-reaching consequences; While it was planned to postpone them until the end of the legislature, the health crisis has destroyed the plans to control public finances, after three years of growth that have not been put to use. Today's priority is to reinvest massively in our economy in order to enable recovery and investment, which are vital in the current context. Unfortunately, it is well known that "debt is tax squared". We place the burden of our current spending on future generations. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR, MODEM and Active ens groups]] The IDU and Independent Group believes that the proposed Regulations should be an opportunity to assess the sound management of public funds. Despite the deterioration of state finances in 2019, we recognize a genuine effort of sincerity that justifies our favourable vote on the text. Nevertheless, we share some criticisms on other benches. The last two years of the quinquennium will have to be used to make the efforts that have not been made during the first three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u112	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u113	We are approaching the final reading of the bill, which describes a situation far removed from what we are experiencing. The health crisis and its economic counterpart, as well as the resulting severe shock to our public finances, must lead us to exercise even more demanding control over the spending of the year 2019. First point, and several of us have recognized it, the process of budgetary Sincerization continued in 2019, leading to a healthier implementation. While the previous years had had two or even three decrees in advance, none were required in the course of last year. However, as my colleague Charles de Courson had said at first reading, the 2019 budget marks a break in the republican pact established by the Veil Act of 1994, due to the non-compensation of emergency measures for social security revenues, to the detriment of social policy-holders. In this regard, we regret the rejection of the amendment we tabled on the third amending finance bill. This choice, which puts social security under stress when it has almost returned to balance, remains all the more unjustifiable today as social accounts have been heavily mobilized to respond to the crisis. We see this as a form of state accountability. In support of this, you urge the local authorities, and in particular the departments, to make efforts without allocating sufficient resources to carry out their activities. Secondly, the Court of Auditors considers, in view of the results of the public finances for 2019, that the recovery is incomplete. This is easy to understand: despite relatively strong economic growth of 1.5%, the government deficit was 3%, compared to 2.3% in 2018, with its first deterioration since the 2009 financial crisis. On the other hand, the deficit for the state budget alone amounts to almost EUR 100 billion. Rather than taking advantage of the favourable situation, which has now been lost, in order to regain budgetary room for manoeuvre, the Government has postponed the structural adjustment of the public accounts, which we can only regret. The initial finance law for 2019 already provided for a structural effort reduced to 0.1 points. However, since the publication of the annual national accounts by INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, and the opinion of the High Council of Public Finance on the third amending budget, we have learned that there has finally been no structural effort in 2019. How did we get there? Public expenditure increased by 1.8%, three times as much as the original target of 0.6%. Emergency measures following the movement of yellow vests had the effect of lowering the level of tax revenues. As a result, compulsory levies decreased by EUR 10 billion, while savings for the public sector as a whole were barely 5 billion. As regards compliance with the European budgetary rules, the observation is hardly more encouraging: the previous government managed to exceed the maximum deviation allowed over a year for each of the three rules. Almost three years ago, the Government promised to reduce the burden of public spending to the euro area average. In 2019, this gap was 8.2 points. In its opinion, the High Council for Public Finance notes, moreover, that the improvement in the structural balance is due to factors which are not the result of the action of the public authorities, such as the reduction in the burden of interest on the debt. No room for manoeuvre: this is the observation that can be drawn from the budget implementation of 2019. Of course, it would have been difficult and unpopular and demanded a strong political will, but it is now clear that we are paying the price of a policy of always delaying efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u114	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u115	About a year ago, here, I mentioned, about the settlement law, an amazing continuity in the practice of power, despite successive governments – this famous never-ending day when majorities pass, faces change, but where a policy remains: that of austerity and the reduction of public spending. Unfortunately, the 2019 fiscal year, which concerns us for the third time, does not derogate from the rule. Since 2017, public spending has fallen by €78 billion, and local and regional authorities have seen their budgetary room for manoeuvre drastically limited, notably through control contracts. Yet this crazy logic has not even made it possible to clean up the nation's accounts. The reason is simple: the multiplication of tax gifts and tax niches, as well as, overall, a tax policy that is outrageously favourable to larger companies. As a result, the government's revenue continues to be weakened, resulting in a €92 billion increase in our public deficit for 2019. Of course, your budget is sincere, but it is economically wrong, in addition to being politically shifted or even exceeded, because it was decided when we had several exceptional crises, both in their duration and in their magnitude. In January 2019, the protest of the yellow vests continued, relayed and amplified by the protest of the unions against pension reform. These protests should have dictated a radical change of course. It wasn't. Only the crisis of the Covid-19 forces you to take exceptional measures, which will have heavy and lasting consequences for our economies. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do you not see that all these crises, however diverse, underline the same bankruptcy: that of an ageing socio-economic model, inherited from the 1980s and 1990s and based on the dismantling of our public services, the worsening of the logics of competition and rapin, the exaltation of an individual success pushed to its peak? Do you not hear that social movements show an opposite aspiration, demanding more equality and justice? Does not the crisis of the Covid-19 make you look down on the importance of local public services, concrete and active solidarity, and protective social security? Has it not highlighted the importance of the commune and, more broadly, of the local and regional authorities, who have been able, worthless, to help, assist and accompany our fellow citizens at the height of the crisis? In 2019, these communities were further weakened by the removal of the housing tax. Since 2014, the cumulative decrease in the overall operating allocation has amounted to almost 50 million euros. So how can you congratulate yourself on such a budget? The Group of the European People's Party cannot, whether it is in first reading, in new reading or in final reading. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] For all the reasons mentioned above, we will vote against the bill, convinced that only a frank break with liberal orthodoxy would have been able to better prepare our country not only for the present crisis, but for the one that will inevitably come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u116	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u117	We are approaching the final reading of the 2019 Bill Regulations. This exercise is necessary, because ensuring the proper use of public money means ensuring that it is spent in accordance with the authorisation given by Parliament. Our Group on Ecology democracy solidarity once again welcomes, as others have done before me, the seriousness and sincerity of the budget. I noted with satisfaction the success of the massive increase in the activity premium decided at the end of 2018. It was a response to the social demand expressed at the beginning of the yellow vest movement, as well as a temporary and effective lever to finally begin to improve the situation of precarious assets and part of the middle class. We must credit this quinquennium the consideration of too little wage growth in our country. The call for responsibility that we already addressed to part of the employers before the economic crisis must be repeated here. Our group wants to be constructive with demand. Indeed, while there are satisfactory points in the implementation, others are, alas, more worrying. As far as the public service of justice is concerned, continuing in 2019 to under-consumption jobs and means can no longer suffice. We cannot content ourselves with the "slightly better" assessment of the computer resources in our colleague Patrick Hetzel's report. For the rest, justice suffers, among other things, from too few jobs budgeted and filled, from support functions in difficulty compared to other ministries, and from material out of age. I heard the opening remarks of Minister Éric Dupont-Moretti and I took note of his willingness to complete the law on the programming of justice already passed and not to stick to the "whole prison." This requires resources and staff. If the Ministry of Justice intends to catch up in the coming months with decades of delay, it will obviously be able to count on the support of our group. It's high time. The state cannot be reformed if some of the pillars of the rule of law reach such a point of erosion that they threaten to ruin. I come now to the tax control which allows me to refer to the financial implementation of the law on the fight against fraud, of which I had the honour of being the rapporteur. It was under this law that a huge company operating a famous search engine and its services had to pay EUR 1 billion in fines and taxes. So it is she who provides something to rebalance our budget. Its revenues alone represent three times the proceeds of the digital services tax! This law reflects the desire to advance exemplaryness and equality in the face of taxation. The tools and general spirit that characterize it will be decisive in the coming months, when we have to assure our fellow citizens that state aid which will support many companies will not evaporate in nature in the event of fraud. However, as I have already said, our judges, particularly the National Financial Prosecutor's Office, or PNF, must have the means of their action. No PNFs, no extra billions in our accounts. No tax controls, no tax receipts. I noted, Minister, that the July 2019 results of the DGFiP, the Public Finance Branch, were presentable. In 2019, the figure of 11 billion euros collected through tax control would have been exceeded. This increase must still be solid. Many other tax control figures published just a few days ago are of concern to me, including the reduction in the number of checks and charges notified. This is less revenue for the future financial year. Without our support demanding in human means, throughout the territory, all those who ensure the fair and equal application of the tax law, it is another pillar of our Republic that is likely to sink, under budgetary data for the time being apparently reassuring. Despite these few alarms he has chosen to highlight, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is in favour of voting on the draft budget settlement and approval bill for the year 2019. This voting position, which guarantees the seriousness of our group and its willingness to dialogue with all, enables us to promote the values we carry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u118	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u119	We are meeting again today, for my great pleasure – and certainly for yours as well – after having had very interesting debates this morning on the direction of public finances, in order to complete the final reading of the Budget Settlement and Account Approval Bill for 2019. In fact, these two discussions are complementary and part of the same whole: the management and direction of our public finances. We have already heard high-quality interventions on this bill at first reading and again, and I would just like to reiterate, in a few words, the Government's efforts to ensure that the public accounts are properly implemented. For the second time in thirty years, the latter has not made any appropriation or cancellation of appropriations by order in advance. As a result, the reserve rate has been stabilized to 3 per cent excluding Title 2, reflecting an initial budget for programmes that is more sincere and in line with the spirit of the LOLF, the Organization Act on Finance Laws. We must be critical when necessary, but we must also be able to salute, encourage and thank when the changes we called for in our wishes materialize. This is the case with respect to the principle of sincerity of public accounts. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the forthcoming budget texts will be of crucial importance and that respect for the principle of budgetary sincerity must be preserved as far as possible. In substance, as we have already discussed at length this morning during the public finance policy debate and during the first and new readings of this text, the public deficit in 2019 stood at more than €92 billion in execution, 0.2 points less than what was provided for in the LFI, or initial finance law, and 0.1 points less than what was provided for in the LFR, or amending finance law. Government debt stabilized at 98.1% of GDP. The debt burden has been reduced by very low interest rates. Tax revenues were close to €8 billion higher than expected in the original Finance Act, while expenditure exceeded the forecast by €6 billion. Of course, the control of public finances could and should have been stricter, but it would be dishonest to ignore the social climate that presided over the design of the 2019 budget. The massive cuts in compulsory levies contained in the latter were necessary to restore purchasing power to our fellow citizens. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has promoted a policy of reducing levies for households and businesses, which will continue with the reduction of production taxes and the complete abolition of the housing tax by 2023. This policy has made it possible to restore oxygen to the French economy. At the same time, the most vulnerable have been protected, thanks in particular to the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities and the activity premium. The analysis of the management of public finances in the wake of this crisis must be carried out bearing in mind these few elements of reflection. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] The discussion of this 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill seems almost anachronistic to us in the exceptional circumstances we know. It is now time to rescue the most affected sectors and to support local communities and our most fragile compatriots. Last but not least, the time has come for the massive, targeted and strategic revival that our economy needs to enable us to transform this dramatic health and economic crisis into an opportunity to enter the "after world". That said, the members of the Action Together group will vote on this bill to regulate the budget and approve the 2019 accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u120	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u121	What a gourmand to be able to comment on this 2019 budget. I'll tell you right away, Deputy Minister Griset: you have nothing to do with it, because you weren't there. So I'm going to be able to go straight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u122	Mr. Dussopt is at his side!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u123	Mr. Dussopt was there, indeed – I'm coming! We are here to determine whether the 2019 budget has been properly implemented. However, he was executed very well – and even very, very well! Yes, the reduction in the solidarity tax on wealth has been well implemented and cost the state budget nearly €3 billion. The 350,000 great fortunes of our country thank you: thanks to you, they made a lot of money! You have implemented this reform well, so much so that in 2019 the number of millionaires has increased sharply – there are 62000 more. Bravo, it was a good goal and you reached it. INSEE also announced that in the same year, an additional 400,000 people came in addition to the 9 million already living below the poverty line. Yes, in 2019, the tax on large companies with profits of more than €500,000 actually fell, as you expected, to 28%! Thanks for the big multinationals! This is about €2 billion less in the state coffers. Yes, the CSG increased well for all retirees in 2019, as you planned, even if you then decided to reduce it under pressure from yellow vests, protesters and trade union organizations. Yes, in the same spirit, you have increased the rate of contributions to the AGIRC – the general association of supplementary retirement institutions of managers – and to the ARCCO – the association for the supplementary pension scheme of employees – and lowered the pensions of a large number of pensioners. Yes, France's budget lost 2 billion euros in 2019 because of the real tax shield you introduced, the flat tax, which cap taxes on financial revenues. In 2019, the CAC40 multinationals distributed €60 billion in cash, including €49 billion in dividends, making France the vice-champion of Europe's dividend distribution that year. Bravo, that's another good result! Yes, in 2019 you decided and implemented 5.7 billion euros of savings on the back of our social security, including 1 billion euros of savings on our hospitals, which rightly made the nurses and doctors scream. It took almost two years and a terrible epidemic to get you back on these choices and give back budget oxygen to our public hospitals. Yes, you have also continued your policy of lowering capital taxes by making it more advantageous, for example, the Copé niche. This was done well in 2019. You have also, of course, reduced the tax credit for the energy transition, the ISCED, by reducing it from 30% to 15% and reducing the list of eligible works. Bravo! This, too, was a good goal that you had set yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u124	What about MaPrimeRenov?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u125	You have also made great savings on the backs of our municipalities and communities by depriving them of several billion euros as a result of the so-called Cahors contracts. You have in fact decided to cap the investment of the agglomerations and have passed this reduction on to the resources allocated to our communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u126	No, they're up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u127	In 2019 – it's the pompon! – you have also granted €40 billion in reductions in contributions and tax credits to all businesses, including those that do not need them, that distribute dividends and that get used to it. Multinationals like Amazon or Apple, who have benefited from this gift, thank you! Finally, you have implemented the downsizing in Bercy by undertaking a program to eliminate, among other things, municipal cash – public services to which the French are attached in our communes. However, this 2019 budget did not include the investments that should have been made to preserve the environment and that we called our wishes, for example, by investing in the preservation of small lines or in favour of freight, which we are talking about today. There was also no funding needed to renovate 700000 thermal colanders every year, as would have to be done to meet our climate target: it is barely if, in 2019, 100,000 dwellings were renovated. There is also no EUR 80 billion in this budget that is lacking in the state budget to effectively combat tax evasion, on the basis of a list of tax havens that we dream of finally getting one day – even though, as Émilie Cariou said earlier, an additional EUR 1 billion has been spent on this fight. There's a hole in the racket there too. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] For all these reasons, you will understand that, if the rich thank you well for this 2019 budget, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left refuses, for its part, to vote for a budget whose philosophy does not meet the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u128	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u129	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u130	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u131	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No 3226).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u132	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u133	Last Tuesday, the Joint Joint Committee of Senators and Deputies led to the adoption of a joint text for the third amending finance bill, or PLFR3, for 2020. This agreement was far from being achieved, as it is neither small nor modest in size. Its consideration had led to the discussion of nearly 2000 amendments in the National Assembly and nearly 1070 in the Senate. The High Assembly voted only about 30 articles in conformity, leaving more than 110 articles to be considered by the Joint Joint Committee. The rapporteur general of the Senate and I have proposed a text which, I believe, combines the best of what our two assemblies have adopted and which has had the honour of obtaining the favourable vote of the CMP. This result was not achieved the previous day, but the common energies and sense of responsibility of our two delegations have brought about the conditions for an ambitious agreement. Each assembly agreed to make one meaningful journey to the other. The CMP accepted the deletion of sixty-three of the seventy-three additional articles adopted by the Senate. In addition, more than ten articles have been published in their version, which emerged from the work of the National Assembly. However, several relevant contributions from the Senate have drawn my attention and we have proposed that they be retained in the text that you are proposed to adopt. In all transparency, I will therefore summarize the main advances made by the Senate. Article 1 provides for the inclusion of the occupants of the public domain of public health institutions for the benefit of partial cancellation of State fees. Article 2 A relaxes the tax credit for the first subscription to a press publication, by removing the condition of resources and depleting the amount of this tax credit, in return for a reduction in the rate, to 30% instead of 50%. Article 7 maintains the so-called "return to better fortune" clause in favour of the departments, which will only be required to repay the advances received after the proceeds of the DMTO - transfer rights for consideration - income at its 2019 level. Article 18 extends to all enterprises with fewer than 250 employees the possibility of receiving partial social security contributions, provided that they do not benefit from the exemption and support schemes for the payment of wage contributions. The progress is considerable, as I would remind you, we are moving from 50 employees to 250 employees. Article 18b extends the tax credit for investment in Corsica until the end of 2023. This provision had been proposed on some benches of our assembly, and we took advantage of this CMP to announce this good news to you. Article 21a maintains the extension of the VATF - the value added tax compensation fund - to the expenditure of local and regional authorities related to the cloud, with effect from 12 January 2021. There is a time when we must be able to take note of the majority votes in Parliament in the legislation. Finally, Article 22a opens up the possibility of financing with the new DSIL envelope - local investment support - projects corresponding to the specific conditions of the DETR - provision of equipment for rural areas. We can see that the Joint Joint Committee has made frank progress on the text adopted in the House, but it has not resulted in unbalanced provisions which would have called into question our vote at first reading, which I would not have accepted. I therefore wholeheartedly welcome this outcome. The success of the Joint Joint Committee shows that our two assemblies live up to the challenges and their responsibilities in the present period. They have managed to overcome their differences and even their divisions. This agreement will speed up the deployment of aid to businesses, small households and local and regional authorities and prepare for the recovery. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I thank all the directors of Division B for having done such work in record time, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in advance for the adoption of the text of the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u135	On behalf of the Government, I would like to begin by congratulating the Joint Joint Committee, which was able to bring the third amending finance bill to fruition. This is the third time, on three amending finance laws, that the Assembly and the Senate have reached an agreement, a compromise allowing for adoption as quickly as possible. In this convergence between the two assemblies, I like to see that, when our country faces a crisis and encounters difficulties, it is possible to overcome differences and oppositions in order to make a number of concessions. As the rapporteur-general said, some of the provisions adopted by the Senate deserved the full attention of the National Assembly and the Government; They enriched the text, which responds more effectively to problems that may not have been sufficiently identified. I will highlight five points that we see as characteristic of this amending finance bill. First of all, this text allows us to strengthen, with a great deal of money, the mechanisms that have proved their worth in the face of the crisis. I am thinking of the partial allocation of activity, which will mobilise more than EUR 31 billion, or of the solidarity fund, which will exceed EUR 8 billion. Your work will allow us to abound these effective and appreciated devices by those who benefit from them. Secondly, the amending finance bill will fund the measures we have announced in favour of the automotive, aeronautics and tourism sectors. These sectoral plans will be financed both from the general budget and from this text, as well as from the recovery plan that Bruno Le Maire and I will present at the end of August. This recovery plan will be translated into a specific mission of the PLF for 2021 and, if necessary, a new amending finance bill will allow us to propose the necessary adjustments at the end of the management. Parliamentary work has also expanded or strengthened the nation's support for areas that may not have been adequately addressed, such as festivals or the press. Thirdly, the amending finance bill respects the words given, particularly with regard to tax exemption and social security contributions. We had indeed made a commitment to have the USSRAF and the tax services turn several tens of billions of euros of major deadlines into exemptions. This is now done because section 18, which is also amended by your House and the Senate, exempts the administratively closed TPEs as well as the SMEs in the most affected sectors and the companies whose activities are closely dependent on those concerned. The Senate has further expanded the scope of this measure by raising the ceiling to 250 employees below which it is possible to benefit. Fourthly, we are providing significant support to local communities. The municipal block will benefit from a guarantee of resources equal to at least the average of the tax and state revenues collected from 2017 to 2019. Overseas communities are also subject to a specific provision to take account of the particular structure of their taxation – I am thinking of the granting of the sea as well as the special tax on energy consumption. The departments will also see their level of resources guaranteed through a system of repayable advances that we set up after a discussion with the ADF – the Assembly of the French departments – and whose duration you wanted to extend, so as to compensate for the impact of the foreseeable decline in DMTO for the year 2020 on the treasury of the departments: 2.7 billion euros are thus provided. We know that a number of problems remain. At the initiative of your rapporteur-general, Laurent Saint-Martin, who has thus paved the way for a partnership with Île-de-France Mobilitys, you have adopted an amendment to bring a down payment of EUR 425 million to this public institution. His work with his Senate counterpart has brought this down payment to 600 million euros. This important gesture by the State and Government will allow IDFM to have sufficient cash. I recall that ACOSS, the agency responsible for making monthly payments to IDFM, has changed its calculation procedures since April, now taking as its reference the month of February 2020; Since IDFM's business has not yet suffered, on that date, from the crisis following the covid, this new method of calculation guarantees IDFM to benefit from substantial payments and a substantial cash flow. For example, on 22 July, 50% of the funds owed by ACOSS for the whole of 2020 to IDFM for the mobility payment, i.e. €2.9 billion, have already been paid to it. Two more of our commitments seem to me to have to be underlined. First, in the PLF for 2021, we will renew the commitment made in the PLF for 2020 to maintain the overall level of operating allocations. Secondly, in this PLFR, we abound the investment aid for the local block to the tune of EUR 1 billion, with the possibility of a carry-over of appropriations for the benefit of the communities which would be forced to commit the projects concerned a little later than expected. Finally, it is an essential point, which alone would justify the Government's satisfaction with the text of the CMP: support for young people. You have indeed accepted our proposal to support the hiring of apprentices, which you have extended to professionalization contracts. In addition, an amendment by the Senate extended the scope of apprenticeship contracts to levels 6 and 7. In addition to the recruitment aid, we have included in the PLFR the appropriations necessary to finance the premium for the recruitment of young people under 26 years of age; the Prime Minister, on a trip to the Doubs today, has specified the modalities of this. This point is important both in that it illustrates the attention we are giving to the new generation that will enter the labour market as of next year, and in that it demonstrates that the amending finance bill is at the crossroads of the emergency provisions and the stimulus provisions. With this text, you are not just responding to the urgency: you are beginning to support the revival of economic activity. This is the case, not only thanks to aid for the hiring of young people, but also thanks to support for the decarbonisation of our industry. The text provides for EUR 500 million of commitment authorisations to finance the first call for projects in future industries and decarbonisation. A plethora of examples illustrate our willingness to anticipate the recovery through this PLFR. The fiscal and financial provisions of the recovery plan to be presented on 24 August by Bruno Le Maire will obviously find their place in the PLF for 2021. I take this opportunity to reassure those who mentioned it during the policy debate on public finances: thanks to the first three PLFRs and the adjustments that could, if necessary, be adopted in the end-of-management PLFR, we have the necessary resources to finance the recovery policies until the end of 2020. For 2021 and 2022, we will put in place an efficient, rapid and short-term spending plan worth EUR 100 billion: recovery expenditure, not structural expenditure, which would eventually aggravate the public deficit or compulsory levies. This will be the subject of debates during the parliamentary re-entry, when you will be reviewing the PLF for 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by thanking the rapporteur-general once again for the work he has done with the other members of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u136	Excellent work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u137	[[Same movements]] For the third time, this work has proved successful, demonstrating the ability to listen and gather together at both assemblies. I would also like to thank all the Members who participated in the development of PLFR 3. Through this fine work, you respond very broadly to the needs of the economy and our fellow citizens: thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u138	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u139	The uncertainties in the parliamentary calendar lead us to vote on this amending finance bill on the same day that we reviewed the 2019 Budget Settlement Bill and held the public finance policy debate for 2021. Today, therefore, we will have talked about the past, the present and the future. In the past, since Budget 2019's settlement law illustrates the government's continued efforts to achieve fiscal consolidation. Before this terrible and sudden pandemic and economic crisis, public finances were in the process of remission. The urgency forced us to make the choice of the loan. Despite an exponentially rising debt ratio, the French signature continues to be considered with confidence. Our country has had no difficulty in financing itself, thanks to credibility built by the example. In public finances as in love, there is no trust; There's only evidence of trust. It is these efforts that have enabled us to tackle the crisis with the resources necessary to respond to it forcefully, in particular through successive LFRs. From the present, which we deal with with this third amending finance bill. It is not so common to reach a PMC with the Senate, let alone when it comes to public finances. I therefore salute our honourable senators for their spirit of compromise. Together with the MPs who were members of the CMP, around the two rapporteurs-general, they showed responsibility for a text which was urgently requested, and which they therefore recognised the virtues. Firstly, it accompanies the gradual recovery of economic activity and aims to maintain and supplement aid schemes for sectors which are still significantly stationary, such as tourism, which will benefit from additional cancellations of charges. Secondly, the support provided is both ambitious and demanding in terms of ecological transition. Thus, the participation of the EPA – State Equity Agency – in the capital of large companies will be conditional on the submission of an annual report measuring compliance with their climate commitments. Thirdly, this text supports the most fragile. From the beginning of the crisis, the Government, associations and local authorities have worked to support the most fragile, through the following measures: extension of the winter truce, food aid, emergency shelter, and the granting of a premium to vulnerable households. The breakdown cannot put an abrupt end to this aid. For example, a further EUR 200 million is foreseen to finance the extension of the winter truce and emergency accommodation, on the one hand, and subsidies for the purchase of basic necessities, on the other. Youth is also the subject of support measures: EUR 155 million finance an exceptional premium, in addition to the premium for precarious households; It will benefit 800,000 people under the age of 25 without resources. Finally, in a context where the school year has been severely disrupted, 283 million euros are released for the learning holiday programme. Fourthly, the text includes an exceptional €4.5 billion mobilisation to support local authorities hard pressed for by the crisis. As a municipal elected representative, I would like to stress the commitment of all local elected officials, who have been able to help and support our citizens. I'm coming to the future. We will have to adopt decisive financial texts at the beginning of the year to tackle the recovery after the crisis. The previous LFRs allow us to approach this with a solid production potential. However, major challenges remain: in the area of ecological transition, and the development of the world's first green budget is a major innovation in this area; in social matters, while the crisis weakens those who were already the most fragile; Finally, because companies have suffered hard. It is only by dealing together with these subjects, whose stakes are strongly intrigued, that we can emerge from this terrible ordeal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] In Mandarin, the word crisis is composed of two characters: one represents danger; the other, the opportunity to seize. In the face of a danger to us, we can seize the opportunity of a revival towards a more sustainable model at the economic, ecological and social levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u140	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u141	The epidemic that affects France and the whole world is not yet contained. It has slowed our economy for long weeks and triggered a crisis that we probably won't get out of for a long time. France has tried to react quickly, and I welcome this reactivity. Thus, we are considering a third amending finance bill in just four months. These emergency support measures, although initially too timid, were absolutely essential to save the companies most affected by containment. In a spirit of responsibility, we voted for the first two PLFRs: the urgency of the situation required it, in the face of a crisis of unprecedented magnitude. As early as May and the announcement of the decoupling, the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans, however, called on the Government to think very quickly about the revival. We should have started as soon as possible a real race against the clock, to get our country back as soon as possible. This third PLFR, late and incomplete, remains a support plan and leaves us somewhat on our hunger. To tackle this recovery plan, we will have to wait until the PLF by 2021, when most of our neighbours, Germany and the United Kingdom in the lead, have started theirs for more than a month. What a waste of time! This PLFR certainly contains new measures which we can welcome. Members of the Republican Group, who had called for exemptions from charges for SMEs and TPEs as early as April, during the examination of the second PLFR, have finally been heard. Our proposal was first swept away, but three or four-month exemptions from employer charges were finally granted to the most affected sectors. Unfortunately, they remain too low in terms of the amount of deferred expenses, ten times higher, which often cannot be reimbursed. It also introduces a premium for the hiring of apprentices, carry-overs of repayments of tax credits for companies subject to corporate tax, and an exceptional release of retirement savings for self-employed workers in difficulty. In addition, the Government has opted for a sectoral support plan that encompasses many sectors. Tourism, automobiles, aeronautics, culture, the press, construction and public works, start-ups and French Tech will benefit from support measures, as will local and regional authorities, which suffer heavy revenue losses. While it was, of course, necessary to support the sectors most affected by the crisis, the sectoral approach initially adopted by the Government was not the best because it excluded many small and medium-sized enterprises from the scope of aid; We deplored it at first reading, and we are pleased that the CMP has adopted the approach adopted in the Senate, which is more in line with our demands. PLFR 3 therefore proposes essential measures. Therefore, we will vote in favour, even if it is only an additional support plan, while the recovery cannot wait any longer. The recovery must be ambitious and focused on investment, to get our economy back on track and to support long-term growth. We will be at the rendezvous and will make proposals to go further, in particular to extend incentives to hire young people beyond 1.6 SMICs. We too advocate a very ambitious policy of public investment in housing isolation, among other things, in order to reduce carbon emissions and to support the construction sector, which provides a strong source of jobs. We will also defend the phasing out of production taxes, which we have been asking for since 2017 – provided, of course, that we strictly compensate for the loss of revenue suffered by the communities. Finally, we regret that, during the debates, you rejected our many amendments which were preparing for a faster and more powerful relaunch. Unfortunately, your scheme is now known: your majority continues to systematically reject all the proposals of the Republican Group, before taking them back, but with delay. We are still pleased with the measures adopted in the Senate, such as the one that eases the taxation of exceptional redemptions of retirement savings and life insurance contracts. Finally, we welcome the success of the Joint Joint Committee because, although it is too light, the PLFR 3 is necessary; Without major support, many companies would not survive the crisis. That is why Members of the Republican Group will vote for this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u142	Ah! Good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u143	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-I groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... – as they voted for the first two, Madam Vice-President of the Committee on Finance – waiting for a recovery plan, which we hope will be more ambitious, more comprehensive, and take into account our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u144	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u145	Congratulations, rapporteur-general, on having known, with your counterpart in the Senate, how to find ways of convergence and compromise! This is as much time saved for companies, associations and employees in France, who will benefit from the measures included in the text more quickly than if we had to commit ourselves to a new reading. With this amending finance bill, we are consolidating the anti-bankruptcy and anti-licensing shield that we built in the previous two editions, and we are arming companies to deal with the crisis. At the crossroads of recovery and recovery, we intervene in a powerful but targeted way, to accompany the sectors most violently affected by the crisis: the automobile, aeronautics, tourism, the press and new technologies. We support them now while at the same time preparing for the industrial transition which the President of the Republic calls for tomorrow. The French know this and strongly support these measures. Because local authorities will be at the heart of the recovery, we give them real means of action: I am thinking of the compensation mechanism for the communal bloc and the advances for the departments, but also of the billion euros coming to support the investments of the local authorities. We welcome the exceptional measures aimed at safeguarding employment and preserving France's entrepreneurial heritage. The text provides for a plan to clear debts and exempt contributions and social contributions of an unprecedented scale. With a staggering period of up to 36 months, it will smooth out the effects of the crisis on the cash flow of companies, so that they can preserve employment. For the companies and businesses most affected by the health crisis, we go even further: the social security contributions, which were deferred in the spring, will finally be cancelled for the months of February to June 2020, and the measure will be accompanied by aid for the payment of all contributions and contributions due to the USSRAF for the year 2020. Self-employed workers, authors and lecturers will also benefit from exemptions or reductions in contributions. In the history of the country, contributions had never been cancelled for entire sectors. However, it is an absolute necessity today because, when a company disappears, a fabric of relationships, know-how and skills is lost forever. Our businesses, businesses and artisans are a national treasure that it is our responsibility to protect whatever it costs. The amendments by Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement have enriched the Government's text – I welcome it – in terms of valuing the work. One of the amendments we tabled, like other groups, extends the deadline for payment of the Macron premium until 31 December 2020. In addition, Master's students are integrated into the learning plan, thanks to an amendment tabled by Stéphane Baudu at first reading. As regards local and regional authorities, another amendment by Stéphane Baudu incorporates, in Article 5, the territorial and rural centres of balance as well as the countries organised in trade union form. An amendment by Vincent Bru also grants an additional two years to the reimbursement of the DMTO. In the area of solidarity, three amendments by Sarah El Haïry appear in the CMP text. The first concerns the taxation of inheritance donations to an organisation recognized as being of public utility. The second extends the time limit for making a gift of succession to an association or a recognized foundation of public utility. The third removes the certificate of non-religibility of transfer rights for life insurance which benefits recognised bodies of public utility. With regard to ecological transition, an amendment by Bruno Duvergé increases the tax incentive for the incorporation of fatty acid methyl esters into fuels. As for Patrick Mignola's amendment, he made the granting of own funds conditional on the granting of aid to the largest companies. As a Member of Parliament for the Yvelines, therefore from France, I would like once again to congratulate the rapporteur-general for the work he has done and for the compromise he has been able to find with the senators, so that Ile-de-France Mobilitys can see, as soon as the text is promulgated, a down payment of EUR 600 million to deal with the decline in the mobility payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u147	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This text, of which we are pleased that it has been agreed between the Assembly and the Senate, is a genuine economic defence plan that responds both to the absolute need to preserve the employment and purchasing power of employees and the self-employed, and to the need to arm companies and associations in the face of a major crisis. That is why Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of the text of the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u148	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u149	As we are only in July, we are about to pass the third amending finance bill for 2020. As my colleague Christine Pires Beaune rightly pointed out at first reading, this unprecedented situation proves that we are going through an unprecedented crisis in our modern history. The Socialist and related group cannot hide its disappointment at the end of the legislative path of PLFR 3. What vision do you have in defending this text? It's hard to answer! This budgetary collective consists primarily of measures under sectoral support plans, unrelated to each other or extending emergency arrangements put in place at the beginning of the health crisis. You will tell me that this vision will be reflected in the recovery plan that will be set out in the PLF for 2021. Let me reply that reducing production taxes or announcing an umpteenth programme of thermal renovation of buildings is in no way a vision for France of tomorrow. Instead of reducing production taxes by 20 billion euros and reducing the revenue of local authorities once again, help local authorities to be able to invest. They are the first public investors in France. However, while PLFR 3 contains support measures that are in the right direction, it must be noted that these measures are still insufficient. Thus, communities, primarily municipalities and EPCIs – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – will not benefit from any compensation from the State for their loss of tariff revenues. For their part, departments will have to repay their DMTO advances, even though the assumption of a rebound in the real estate market is uncertain. As for the regions, these are the great forgotten ones of PLFR 3. Their skills are, however, central to the revival of economic development, spatial planning and training. I note, moreover, that in the preparatory report for the debate on the orientation of public finances, the Government mentioned a possible support mechanism for the regions: it states on page 19 that an amendment to PLFR 3 should have been submitted in order to compensate the regions for the loss of revenue in respect of VAT and internal consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – to the amount of EUR 700 million. I note, however, that unfortunately you have not presented this compensation scheme, which we would have unreservedly supported. We are in favour of the thermal renovation of the buildings, but we must be ambitious: let us set a course to eliminate, in the coming years, the 7.5 million thermal colanders that France counts. The members of the Socialist and Related Group have a well-worked, costed and argued proposal: the climate premium, defended by my colleagues Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout. For now, you've sent us an end to not receiving. The same applies to PLFR 3: you have swept away all the proposals we made to the National Assembly, and the progress made by socialist senators, particularly in the overseas areas, has been deleted by the CMP. Most of our proposals were aimed at implementing our plan for an economic, social and ecological rebound. I invite you to read this plan, credible and funded. Your lack of consideration of the opposition's proposals poses a democratic problem and weakens Parliament. I note, moreover, that not all oppositions are treated in the same way: the right-wing opposition, from which the two prime ministers of this quinquennium came, is a little better treated than the left-wing opposition – which, in particular, led to the conclusion of the CMP. Given your policy, this difference in treatment won't surprise anyone. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Since the consequences of the health crisis impose emergency measures, we will not vote against PLFR 3, but we will not vote for this incomplete and visionless text either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u150	This is irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u151	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u152	This amending finance bill concludes a series of three pieces of legislation designed to address the consequences of confinement and proposes, in this exceptional context, emergency measures to support our economy. Its purpose is clear: to save our economic fabric, to preserve employment, to support our businesses and local and regional authorities, to help all those who continue to suffer from the consequences of the epidemic. The IDU and independent group agrees on many points concerning the measures to be taken and the objectives to be achieved. However, these emergency measures must be complemented by medium-term responses; In this regard, we all look forward to the Government's announcement of the recovery plan on 24 August. We will also have to be at the meeting to correct the underdotes of certain budget lines. Massive state investment, combined with a government deficit estimated at 11.4 per cent of GDP, a recession of 11 per cent, a public debt of 120.9 per cent of GDP, a decline in household consumption and a fall in investment, will require the submission of new and important finance bills, which we will need to support together. This text, which is the result of an agreement in the CMP, provides some immediate solutions. We particularly welcome the efforts made to preserve our businesses. The debt-remittance scheme is thus extended to all enterprises with fewer than 250 employees who have lost more than 50% of their turnover. The plan to support tourism was essential and the measures to cancel the charges, amounting to EUR 4 billion, were welcome. The threat of a second wave and the global context herald a very difficult season for those who participate in the rise of our heritage; It was unthinkable to abandon them. The Solidarity Fund will therefore remain open to them until the end of 2020; companies with up to 20 employees and up to EUR 20 million in annual turnover will be eligible. I am also thinking of the associations, which have done remarkable work during this crisis, despite their limited human resources. The increase to 75% of the rate of tax reduction for payments made to them is a good signal. We particularly welcome the increase in appropriations for the renewal of the national police and gendarmerie fleets. This is a request that my colleague Christophe Naegelen has been relaying for more than a year, because of the state of old age of law enforcement vehicles. Finally, measures in favour of local and regional authorities, which are heavily affected by the crisis due to the decline in their tax revenues coupled with the rise in social expenditure, will help to compensate for the losses suffered. However, the state of their finances at the dawn of 2021 must remain a primary concern. On the other hand, we regret that the proposals put forward by the IDU Group and independent in order to support the recovery have not been heard. I am thinking in particular of the removal of the privilege of public creditors, which seems to us to be an extremely urgent measure: the bankruptcy of a company should not result in the bankruptcy of its suppliers; It is preferable to pay suppliers rather than create unemployment. Finally, we will pay attention to the introduction of the recruitment aid scheme, which was to be included in this text, but it seems to be introduced by regulation. The labour market is likely to be impenetrable, especially for our young people. In this context, we believe it is essential to support our SMEs in their recruitment. We need to go further, by creating a hiring bonus to ensure that we do not create a "covid promotion". For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u153	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u154	The crisis is there, of an unprecedented scale, with budgetary, economic and social repercussions. More than ever before, it is important for public authorities to be present alongside the most vulnerable companies and our fellow citizens. Recent economic developments suggest that this recession could be a little less than expected – GDP was expected to fall by 11%. However, the current uncertainties call for caution. In our view, the response to this crisis should take place in three stages: emergency, support and recovery. This third amending finance bill in four months aims first of all to amplify the overall response to the emergency. I am thinking of the additional abundance of the solidarity fund or the partial activity support scheme. In view of the latter's high cost to public finances – a total of EUR 31 billion – we reiterate our call for more ex post checks. This budget collective then provides support to the most affected sectors: tourism, hospitality, catering, sport, culture, arts and entertainment. We have been heard about the exceptional exemptions from contributions for these sectors, amounting to EUR 3 billion, and we are satisfied with that. Nevertheless, we regret that, despite some progress, the mechanism chosen is complex and incomplete. It would have been preferable and clearer to open the system to all companies experiencing a decline in turnover in 2020. I would also like to welcome, of course, the extension until 31 December 2023 of the investment tax credit in Corsica, even though its enlargement has not been retained by the Joint Joint Committee. God knows that we have mobilized ourselves in favour of this tax credit, an essential mechanism for the creation and vitality of companies in Corsica. This fiscal collective was also expected to improve the situation of local and regional authorities, whose revenues were affected by the crisis. We welcome the improvements made by the Senate and, to a large extent, retained by the CMP – I am thinking in particular of the return to good fortune clause with regard to DMTO advances. However, communities are faced with new burdens and the Government's proposals only partially respond to them, particularly with regard to the departments, which are going to experience a sharp increase in their expenditure on solidarity. We also regret that the regions have been forgotten: they do not benefit from any measure in this PLFR, whereas we should accompany them to the extent that they have been and continue to be their commitment. At all levels, losses for local and regional authorities are estimated at €7.5 billion. In response, the Government is planning only €4.5 billion in increases to the DSIL, including repayable advances. You can see that there is an imbalance. However, communities represent the majority of public investment, and it is always useful to recall that. As for the revival, it is present in the text, but only in respect of certain sectors, such as automobiles and aeronautics. We regretted that this PLFR did not include a major global recovery plan. Since then, we have learned that it will be included in the budget for 2021. Its total amount is known: around 100 billion euros. We also know that it will be based, to the tune of EUR 40 billion, on the European recovery plan, which we once again welcome. We should be careful, however, that the recovery plan does not turn into a delay plan. Business failures will increase, alas, well before the beginning of the year 2021. The recession will be all the more severe as we delay the implementation of a stimulus to reconcile economic ambition with the ecological imperative. We regret, therefore, that the progress made in the Senate to accelerate the energy renovation of homes has not been retained in the final text. This would have been a strong signal to an area of highly affected future. In summary, we take note of the compromise reached with the Senate, which brings advances for the territories and answers, albeit imperfect, to certain sectors that are particularly affected. We regret, however, that the social dimension is so weak, as inequalities grow, and that the revival and ecological shift so many times announced are slow to materialize. That is why the vast majority of Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u155	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u156	The vote on this amending finance bill, third of the name, allows me to take stock of the successive PLFRs and of the plans announced. In fact, it becomes difficult because every day brings its share of billions of euros, supposedly new, promised by one or another minister. Emmanuel Macron thus in turn saves health, rail, youth and even Europe. I say "supposedly," because the only constant of these plans is the art of propaganda. We actually add carrots and turnips, sometimes bitter: real subsidies alongside tax or social exemptions, redeployments, guaranteed loans, promises over several years, sums already included in previous plans. In fact, no one is able to say what really is, what this money will be. Let us take the example of the EUR 100 billion announced for the recovery plan: if you have done the exercise of searching for its composition in the press, you will have found that it varies from one article to another, so much the blurry reigns. It is not even known whether part of this amount does not fall under the first two LFRs. Thus it seems that these 100 billion include the 38 billion partial unemployment schemes, which are essential but are a safeguard measure, in no case an economic recovery. In addition, of these 38 billion, some 30 have already been infused by previous amending finance laws. The exemptions you promise are not gifts fallen from heaven: they have a cost to the community. Less contributions, less taxes, less revenue. You are announcing a 10 billion drop in production taxes, while the main cause of the deficit caused by the crisis is the loss of tax revenues, already estimated at 135 billion euros. So it is the opposite of what we would need to get out of the crisis. You are using exemptions from social contributions, which will increase the social debt. If the State compensates for these reductions in contributions to the euro, it will cost it much more than to be in debt directly, as the economist Michaël Zemmour has shown; and if it does not, it will endanger solidarity mechanisms. We could very well have created targeted aid for companies that are in difficulty as a result of the crisis and subjected them to ecological and social conditions: for example, not to lay off, or not to use this money to pay dividends. In ten years, let me remind you, CAC 40's dividends have increased by 70%, compared to 12% for SMIC. You ask the financiers to moderate the payment of dividends, whereas they are in their eyes their only criterion of good economic health: I find the joke rather cynical... In essence, you always apply and claim the same recipes: those of supply policy. That's how you plan to fight offshoring. During the crisis, you spoke of "the welfare state", "nationalizations", "protectionism". In reality, you want to fight with the very weapons that have weakened our economies: ever more sumptuous gifts to capital, tax cuts, and lower labour prices. For generations to come, you propose to die competitively, because this policy has resulted in a social and ecological ruin for thirty years. Instead of amendments to ecological conditionality, a puppet amendment makes it difficult to subject aid to ecological conditions, whereas the provision contained in the bill already contained, concerns only one of the very many aids and the conditions adopted are not binding: failure to comply with them will not result in any sanction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u158	Looking closer, we realize that nothing you do is up to the crisis. The billions announced at all-va are insignificant in terms of lost GDP points. In essence, it is your aid as well as the European recovery plan. The European Parliament has estimated that EUR 2000 billion is needed; And you finally put on the table an amount twice as small, which therefore covers only half of the European GDP losses. That is why the European Parliament, including the representatives of the French parliamentary majority, has just voted against the conclusions of the European Council. France, which you call victorious, is the great loser of these negotiations. Indeed, without the creation of own resources, the Member States will have to repay in full the EUR 750 billion of the recovery plan, including the 390 billion of grants, in proportion to each other's contribution. France will receive 40 billion and repay 66 billion; So she'll lose 26 billion! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Once again, the objectives of this PLFR are similar to the European recovery plan: a lot of blur, of publicity effects, concealing the risk of an economic stall in France. We needed to rebuild our health and industrial sovereignty, to preserve and create employment by investing in the economy, under environmental conditions, to rebuild the social state and public services, to share working time and wealth. You are persevering in the world before, the one whose inhabitants and the earth have suffered for thirty years: wild capitalism, competition, free trade and overprofits. The group La France insoumise will vote against this PLFR, that is to say little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u159	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u160	We are approaching the final reading of the amending finance bill for 2020, third of the name. I will mention our disappointments, a little too many, our satisfactions, rare but real, and our responsibility. The opportunities for disappointment, first of all, are numerous in the text that came back to us from the Senate, through the parliamentary shuttle, and then from the Joint Joint Committee. With regard to the cross-conditionality of aid to support our economy, the Senate had made some useful, though timorous, proposals: they were, however, swept away at the time of the CMP, as our sub-amendments on this subject had been, at first reading. At best we can note very small steps in the governance of our aid to green our support policy; Can we still fear that they describe a circle to return to the starting point... Another disappointment, in the social field. We are entering a period of economic crisis, during which there will probably remain a bit of employment, but of poor quality. But you give up a tax on the CDS of use created six months ago: the least-so-called social seems to prevail. The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party can only regret this drop in the campaign for tax incentives to give assets permanent employment contracts, especially since these provisions were adopted unanimously by the majority group, which I represented at the time. However, listing our disappointments does not imply ignoring our satisfactions, which must be recognized. Business support measures, which are insufficiently geared towards ecological transition, are nevertheless relatively balanced, and they do not forget SMEs. Credit measures, social support measures for students – such as 1 euro meals at the start of the school year – and schemes to finance learning and integration are also to be welcomed. With regard to youth, our group had broader ambitions, including a much more substantial strengthening of the youth guarantee. Our duty to be honest, however, requires us to say that certain things are clearly established, and we thank the Government for that. In times of crisis, our group recalls its sense of responsibility: we will vote in favour of this text. I will note one last source of satisfaction, which I hope is not relative. As the deputies of the Republican Group wanted, the Senate had carried out the dry removal of the special contribution of solidarity of the societies, the C3S, thus sabrating nearly 4 billion euros dedicated to the social protection of our pensioners. I want to be optimistic by seeing it as the beginning, on the part of the majority, of a real reflection on the usefulness of production taxes. The C3S, a not very fine compulsory levy on turnover, which has anti-economic effects, nevertheless remains a minimum tax for many large international companies established in France, which are not fully or partially exempt from the taxation of their profits. I hope that, for all so-called "production" taxes, we will soon be able to maintain, whatever happens, a sense of precision and tax justice. They cannot be reformed without an overall vision, without an effective minimum tax. I know that in MODEM, in particular, this idea is old and very lively. I know that, on every bench, the idea of a tax base on business activity, ensuring tax justice, is on its way, just as it is talking to our fellow citizens. The US tax system has, moreover, already been implemented. Let us be very vigilant: the recovery that has been badly refined by the fall in taxation can lead to black tax holes, real ones, those that do not swallow up a few million, but billions of euros, preventing the financing of our public services and undermining the idea, so essential to the Republic, that every citizen or economic actor, in the name of equality, must pay a minimum contribution, according to his faculties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u161	Before I continue the general discussion, I would like to inform you that, on the bill as a whole, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u162	The PLFR 3 has the same vocation as the previous ones: to deal with the emergency, to give the French the means to resist the brutal shock inflicted on us by the crisis of the Covid-19. That is why the Group of the European People's Party welcomes measures in favour of the most fragile French people, such as the creation of an exceptional premium for 800,000 young people under the age of 25 without resources, or a support premium for precarious households. That being the case, I would like to use the time I still have to go back to the measures in favour of businesses. First of all, I would like to express our group's satisfaction and pride in having supported, together with the other groups of the majority, the following measures: the sustainability of the partial activity scheme, for an additional €3.3 billion; the increase in the appropriations of the Solidarity Fund for an additional 1.2 billion; the cancellation of nearly EUR 4 billion of charges in the sectors most affected by the crisis; the resources mobilised for the benefit of our communes, departments and regions, to the tune of 4.5 billion, to overcome the financial impact of the crisis. I take this opportunity to congratulate Patricia Lemoine and Lise Magnier, who won their battles over DMTO's or FCTV's advances. These measures continue to respond to the current urgency, the tragedies of many of our companies, the lives of their employees and managers. However, it seems to me that it is no longer possible to dissociate urgency and revival. If PLFR 3 calls for urgency, the way in which we respond to it, our choices in terms of amounts and method, are, in many respects, the milestones in the economic recovery that we are all going to work together on. That is why I would like to draw your attention to three important methodological points in order to ensure the coherence and continuity of our action vis-à-vis companies. The first point of methodology is on tax visibility and stability. Companies cannot be asked to recover, to reinvent themselves, without giving them a minimum of legibility in terms of the tax environment. Options were announced by Bruno Le Maire, particularly regarding the reduction of production taxes. We welcome this direction, but above all companies need urgent clarification in order to draw up their recovery plans. Similarly, their privileged partners, local authorities, need more visibility in order to best work towards economic recovery in our territories. The example of the two-thirds rebate of the CFE, the business land contribution, is a good example of my point. The announcement of this tax relief has raised both some concern in the territories, linked to the issue of its financing, and a very strong expectation from our businesses, which, according to their location, will not all be able to benefit from it. This must encourage us to keep in mind the importance, at all levels, of tax visibility and stability. The second point of the method concerns the support of enterprises. I repeat, giving them or guaranteeing them money is not enough to help them transform their economic model; They also need advice and engineering, it is an insistent request from company representatives. I proposed to Bruno Le Maire the creation of a national, regionally declined mechanism that would guarantee the managers of TPE and SMEs the right to a turnkey accompaniment, a veritable "consultation check", allowing them to be assisted by professionals in the development of their recovery plan and the transformation of their model. It would also be a measure of solidarity between companies. Finally, the third point of method relates to the behaviour of the strategist and shareholder State. The PLFR provides for the conditioning of the State's shareholdings in the capital of undertakings. I had advocated an amendment to this effect with my colleagues, and I am pleased that the final version of the text recognises the difference between the saving and the shareholder states, by not conditioning emergency aid and subsidies, but only State equity investments, which reflect a long-term commitment to the strategy and the future of companies. To impose environmental requirements on companies in which the state invests is not to force them, but instead to direct their development towards strategic choices that are winning in a decarbonized economy. In short, I would say, it is a question of the state at last playing a real effective shareholder role, anticipating changes in society, investing in the future and contributing to an ever more sustainable creation of value and wealth. I hope that the upcoming recovery plan will remain the same: that of a more visionary and demanding shareholder state, able to reconcile economy and ecology. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of these three points of methodology, we in the Group of the European People's Party will be pleased to vote on the text of the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u164	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u165	[[Smile]] Thank you all for coming in number to listen to the last speaker...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u166	The best!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u167	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We are looking at the third amending finance bill in the version of the CMP, which remains in the same vein as the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u168	Very good! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u169	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Nothing changes, indeed. Of course, I admit it again, a lot of public money is put on the table! A lot of public money is what we ask, but the way you use it does not satisfy us at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u170	The opposite would have surprised us...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u171	There are still many positive elements in this PLFR:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u172	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u173	... the aid provided to the municipalities, since part of their revenue losses will be offset; the additional billion euros allocated for the allocation of local investment, which the municipalities need for the renovation of schools; the effort made to support the TPEs and SMEs, with the cancellation of €3 billion of contributions, which is an important support for their cash flow and is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u174	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u175	Above all, support must not be stopped for all small businesses, which do not relocate employment. We also welcome the adoption of the amendments in support of Guyana and Mayotte, which my colleague Gabriel Serville, a fervent defender of his territory, defended: they provide for necessary support, as the economic and health conditions in these territories are deteriorating. Despite these few points of satisfaction, the third amending finance bill follows the same logic as the previous ones: a lot of public money put on the table – 460 billion euros in total, our money, taxpayers' money – but some of this money is unfortunately distributed to large groups, to entire sectors, without any condition of maintaining employment, training or investment in the environment and protecting the climate. That's where the bastard hurts, and not just a little bit. To take an example, the automotive industry will receive €8 billion in public support – 8 million, but 8 billion is huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u176	And necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u177	However, the Renault Group announces 4500 job cuts in the country! Despite the 8 billion euros! That's not acceptable! Renault could, thanks to public money and the shareholder state, decide to relocate part of the production of its vehicles, the Sanderos, the Clios, the Twingos, the Dacias...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u178	No publicity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u179	...produced in Romania, Slovenia or Turkey. Why don't we relocate the production of vehicles, especially those sold in France? It would be good for the climate and it would be good for employment. Public money must be used for this, not to shut down factories. It is planned that no more vehicles will be produced in Flins. Public money should be used to relocate these jobs and to reopen factories instead of closing them. I could also tell you about Sanofi: this group has eliminated 1000 jobs, deciding at the same time that 200 of the 300 drugs of major therapeutic interest that it produces will no longer be manufactured in the country, while it will receive 200 million euros of public aid. I could also tell you about Alstom, which we interviewed the President and CEO, Mr. Poupart-Lafarge, a few days ago. The group, as part of a merger with Bombardier, decided to sell its site in Reichshoffen, Alsace. Elsewhere in the East, the Hambach site, where the Smart is produced, will also be sold.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u180	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u181	An industrial disaster will therefore occur in the region. Two factories located 70 kilometres from each other will be offered for sale. Imagine the disaster for the population, for families, for employees who will lose their jobs. How are they going to pay for the kids' education, the credit for the house and the car? These tens of billions of euros of public money that we decide to put on the table should, instead of eliminating jobs, be used to maintain them and even create others. There are jobs to be filled by relocating the industry and finally taking the ecological turn. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] For all these reasons, and just for these reasons, you will understand that Communist Members do not vote for the PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u182	And they won't be the only ones who won't vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u183	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u184	I put to the vote the whole of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u185	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 64 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1018.u186	Next meeting, Monday, 27 July, at 4 p.m.: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence; Discussion of the draft organic law, adopted by the Senate, on the extension of the term of office of members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council; Discussion of the bioethics bill at second reading. The meeting is adjourned.
