ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I would like to remind you of the derogatory rules governing the organisation of our question-sessions established by the Conference of Presidents because of the health crisis. Only a limited number of ministers and only one Member per group are present in the Chamber. The questions with the same theme are grouped together, with each question being answered specifically. The number of questions is reduced. On the other hand, the usual speaking times remain, two minutes per question and as much by reply – if any, replica or counter-replicate. In order to minimize the number of staff present, I should also like to remind you that the list of speakers of which you have become aware is not displayed on the screens during the meeting. Finally, the health rules that are now customary continue to prevail, including the following measures: cleaning the microphones during the session – I remind you that you are asked not to put your hands on the microphones and to use a different microphone per speaker –, respecting the distances between the participants, entering and going out. We begin our session with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, and about health in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u2	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u3	I would like to associate my colleagues Michel Herbillon and Olivier Dassault with my question, as well as all Members of Parliament, the Republicans. While the Academy of Medicine has just advocated the widespread wearing of the mask during the period of confinement and at the time of its lifting, the Government is forced to operate a spectacular volte-face on its doctrine concerning masks. Until last week, you thought the mask was "unnecessary" or even "counterproductive" for uninfected people. Your spokesperson even argued on March 25th: "There is no need for a mask when you respect the distance of protection vis-à-vis others." From now on, you encourage the general public to wear alternative masks, surgical masks being reserved, and that's quite normal, for the health care staff. This turnaround is questioning us. Why didn't you recognize from the beginning that we lacked masks and that they would be distributed sparingly, rather than pretending that they weren't used for anything? It is now appropriate to go to the end of your logic by explaining to us, like the mayors who take the lead, how you intend to supply the population with masks now that they will become indispensable to circulate. Finally, once all caregivers and caregivers are served, how do you intend to help properly equip yourself, as you advocate, with masks or other protective equipment, the countless professionals in livestock, food, distribution, building and public works, services or transportation, who work to support us and who you encourage to continue or resume their activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u5	Mr President, I would not like your question to cause confusion: that is why I will try to answer you as clearly as possible. First, no decision has been taken at this stage to make it mandatory or even recommend wearing the mask for the entire population. We remain, as I speak to you, in the protection strategy, through the wearing of FFP2 masks or surgical masks, caregivers, you have spoken about it yourself, patients and people who are most vulnerable or at particular risk. The Prime Minister is firmly committed to promoting in France an industrial sector, both in the textile and paper sectors, of the production of alternative masks, which would complement imports or the intensive production of all the French production lines of classic masks. These alternative masks, which are less protective, are intended for people who are in the second line in the fight against the virus, primarily those who are in daily contact with the public without performing care functions – I am thinking in particular of transport personnel or operators. Finally, the issue raised by the Académie de médecine in France is not unanimous among many international bodies. Will it be necessary, in the long term, to propose, recommend or even make mandatory the wearing of the mask for the whole population? I repeat, this question remains open. I say it with humility, faced with an unprecedented epidemic threat. As scientific recommendations evolve, we have to ask ourselves questions or even ask ourselves questions. At the moment, I can only confirm what the Government's spokesman has said, namely that the most effective measures recognized by the World Health Organization – WHO – are barrier actions, social distancing, hand washing or coughing in one's elbow. However, if it turned out that wearing the mask for the entire population could enhance the effectiveness of the device and if the recommendations of the scientists were to do so, then we would have to communicate on the subject. But I repeat, at this stage the doctrine has not evolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u6	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u7	I am asking this question on behalf of Justine Benin, Member of Parliament for Guadeloupe, who associates our colleague Max Mathiasin with it. Minister for Overseas Affairs, the whole world is facing an unprecedented health crisis and, more than ever, the current pandemic is exacerbating social, territorial and economic inequalities. This is particularly true for our overseas countries, and especially for Guadeloupe, where the epidemic threshold was crossed two weeks ago. You are well aware of the difficulties of Guadeloupe: the fragility of its health system, the problems of access to care, insularity, employment and digital coverage. Our caregivers and populations are worried. They legitimately question their ability to cope with the epidemic. Masks, gloves, breathers: Guadeloupe, like all other overseas territories, need more than ever massive means to respond to the health crisis. The overseas countries need to be reassured. Can you guarantee the sending of additional materials and human resources? Can you also specify the missions of the Dixmude helicopter carrier that will be mobilized in the West Indies? Moreover, the health crisis is compounded by an economic and social crisis, in a territory that is already experiencing far higher unemployment than elsewhere. While we welcome all the efforts of the Government to support firms in difficulty, it is necessary to extend this action to the overseas countries and territories. Indeed, it appears on the ground that a large number of TPEs are excluded from the schemes, because of the complexity of the criteria, particularly as regards social and tax charges. Minister, can you guarantee that the Government will be fully committed to supporting the economy and jobs of the overseas countries and territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u9	Mr President, as you pointed out, our country is now hit by a global crisis and the overseas territories are unfortunately not spared. I understand the concern of Members from Guadeloupe, Justine Benin and Max Mathiasin, whom I share. That is why we intervened very quickly. Our priority was to prevent the spread of the virus in the ultramarine territories, where, once taken, national decisions were implemented immediately, while the epidemic was not at the same stage as in the hexagon: only a few cases had been identified. Measures specific to the overseas territories have also been decided. We have strictly limited flights to them. Passengers who arrive there are subjected to a strict four-year period, either at home or within collective structures. We have also put in place curfews, particularly in Guadeloupe. Health facilities have been and continue to be strengthened. Thus, fifteen respirators arrived in Guadeloupe, to increase the number of resuscitation beds, as well as twenty-three health professionals from the health reserve. Currently, 15 patients are hospitalized in resuscitation in Guadeloupe, for 39 equipped beds. The coming weeks will see a rise in the resources provided. We will live up to the answer. The Dixmude helicopter carrier, which will arrive in Guadeloupe, Martinique and the entire West Indies-Guyane – it takes twelve days to cross the Atlantic – carries equipment, including more than a million masks. This helicopter carrier will, of course, also allow medical evacuations by air. Finally, with regard to economic measures, I have called for the creation of emergency cells, piloted in each overseas territory by the Prefect: we will proceed on a case-by-case basis. We have already done so and will continue to do so. I am in constant contact with all elected officials. Like the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I would like to reiterate that overseas is a concern of the entire Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u10	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u11	I associate my colleagues in the Socialist and related group with this issue. Prime Minister, since the beginning of this health crisis, our country has been facing a shortage of masks that threatens our ability to contain the epidemic. Our country "is at war": these are the words of the President of the Republic. To prevent this war against the virus from turning into a war of all against all, let me ask you three great questions, in order to learn more about your doctrine. First question: since 3 April, the health authorities have changed doctrine and recommended the widespread wearing of the mask. While the prospect of a deconfinement has been raised, and given that many of our fellow citizens work daily to carry out jobs on which the nation depends, how do you intend to equip the French in masks, especially today, those who have to work? Are you considering distributions of free but rationed masks in pharmacies, to make them accessible to all while avoiding inflation or rush? We believe that there is a need for a clear speech on the subject. Second question: according to the instructions of some regional health agencies – ARS – home helpers would only be entitled to nine masks a week. A home helper sees between five and seven patients a day. How do you intend to protect these people and our elders? Third and final question: while the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region made orders for masks, two of these orders were requisitioned by the State without the region being notified, even though the second order had been the subject of a consultation with the Grand Est region. But Mulhouse, home of the epidemic, is only forty kilometers away from Belfort! Why does the state give the impression of abandoning local authorities on the front line? Does it now intend to organise a transparent and solidarity-based distribution of masks between the regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u12	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u13	Member of the European Parliament, health authorities have not changed their doctrine. Discussions are organized between scientists. One of them is held in the Academy of Medicine, which proposes an evolution. Other institutions have not yet taken a decision on the matter. We have referred to the scientific council and all public health authorities, the High Council for Public Health in the first place, a possible evolution of the doctrine regarding wearing the mask – I have already replied on the subject to Mr Viala. This week, we have destocked 45 million masks across the country. You spoke of solidarity with the regions, taking the example of the Greater East region. The Prime Minister and I have recalled that, in this region, the consumption of masks – which is normal, given the strength of the epidemic that has spread there – has exploded, especially in the hospital environment: it has been multiplied by ten, by twenty, or in some units by seventy! Hospitals in the Greater East were supplied with masks and protective equipment. The nation's effort for the Greater East region has been commensurate with the needs, including a large number of sanitary evacuations. I draw my hat to all the actors in the agencies, especially those in the hospitals, who have mobilized in such a way that the epidemic peak, which seems to us to have passed or at least reached in this region, happens in very harsh conditions in terms of the organisation of care but remarkable from the human point of view –– not to mention the TGVs, planes and helicopters mobilized. The solidarity of the State with the territories in tension, the solidarity of the regions with those in tension, has been full and complete. Finally, not only do we distribute, as we can, protective equipment to home helpers as well as EHPAD staff – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – but, as I announced yesterday, we are going to carry out a massive screening policy that will strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable people, especially our seniors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u14	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u15	Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, the IDU Group, Action and Independents, will accompany me in welcoming the very strong mobilization, the unwavering commitment and the remarkable work of the EHPAD staff. These women and men demonstrate tremendous solidarity, and we will have to remember that. Although we still lack figures, there is no doubt that the situation of the EHPADs affected by the Covid-19 is of great concern. The mortality rate is abnormally high: several deaths per day are recorded in some institutions. The lack of data, particularly with respect to the percentage of EHPAD affected, does not give a sense of the total transparency that caregivers and families of residents need. Do some refusals to hospitalize seniors mean that priority is not given to the most vulnerable? The sense of abandonment, the psychological problems and the large number of deaths associated with the epidemic are shocking for both staff and residents and their families. Allowing residents to live temporarily with their children is a recurring demand, which remains unanswered. Are our elders given sufficient consideration? In some regions, SRAs still do not give masks to EHPADs that are not yet struck by a Covid-19 case. EHPADs, residences and facilities for persons with disabilities have not been adequately protected, as we know, due to a lack of means of protection. Can you, Minister, reassure us this time for tomorrow? The Prime Minister had announced systematic tests for residents and employees of these establishments: we have heard a lot about them since this morning. Can you give us any details on this matter, as well as on the grouping of the patients of Covid-19?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u17	On 11 March, we announced the suspension of external visits to EHPAD, following the outbreak of the Blue Plan; On 28 March, together with the Prime Minister, we called for a strengthening of protective measures, up to chamber confinement for already fragile elderly people: these are humanly difficult measures, but necessary to protect them. I even went so far as to call the EHPADs who could invite their staff to stay there. This shows once again the sense of sacrifice and the total altruism of the actors of the world of health, social and medico-social towards the most fragile people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u18	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u19	We have never denied the difficulties in terms of equipment, for example for home helpers. Logistical difficulties are significant, although distribution through local hospital groups has considerably improved the situation with regard to equipment for EHPADs and home helpers. The valuable support of the departments, which immediately reached out to us, has also enabled us to greatly improve the distribution channels. Difficulties may persist, but all of them have made a truly remarkable effort. As far as testing is concerned, systematic testing will gradually be deployed in the territory, obviously in conjunction with the local authorities, first and foremost the departments, which use volunteers from the health reserve to carry out sampling and which lend vehicles, such as regional health agencies. We are in the process of drawing up a list of all the laboratories available to carry out the tests: as you know, I have authorized all the laboratories, including the departmental laboratories, to participate in the national testing effort, so that we can test all the people as soon as a case is found in an EHPAD. As you can imagine, all this takes time: logistics is extremely complex and the mobilization of all is necessary. Finally, the honourable Member, transparency is complete. The figures that we announce every night are those that go back to us daily from all the EHPADs and medical and social establishments in the territory. We are the only country to be completely transparent about the number of EHPADs involved, the number of patients per institution and even the number of deaths. We pay great attention to the most fragile people: for us, I repeat, they are the priority of priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u20	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u21	Fragile people are the first affected by the Covid-19. This is particularly true with regard to persons with disabilities and elderly persons residing in medical and social institutions. The situation in these structures is of particular concern: on the one hand, confinement is difficult to apply and explain to residents; On the other hand, the spread is facilitated by promiscuity. It was not until last Thursday to know the real scale of the epidemic in EHPADs and medical-social institutions: the record is particularly heavy, since more than 2,000 people have died. In this context, some associations are concerned that people with disabilities may be denied hospital care when they are infected with the virus. Such practices, if proven, would be absolutely intolerable. We are aware of the incredible effort made everywhere, by health workers, to ensure the care of all. However, in the most affected regions, it is necessary to be certain that the level of autonomy and dependency of individuals has not become a criterion for admission to hospital. It is therefore essential to reaffirm that the protection of fragile audiences is a priority. So, Minister, what clear commitments can you make before us to ensure that physical or mental disability is not and does not become a criterion for refusing hospitalization? Finally, to reassure the concerns of EHPAD caregivers and residents and medical-social institutions, you indicated earlier that screening would be systematic. Can you tell us when it will be deployed? In particular, tests require reagents, and I guess things don't happen with a snap of fingers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u22	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u23	You are right: as I said earlier, it requires a very complex logistics. The support of the departments and the organization by the regional health agencies will be valuable for the proper functioning of the territory by territory. The support of the EHPADs themselves will be necessary: I know that they are already mobilizing to tell us when they encounter difficulties and need help. All government departments, communities – including municipalities – and associations must participate in the national effort. For calling elected representatives from all sides and from all types of communities, I can tell you that, systematically, a hand has been stretched. In the current period, the national union is important, and beautiful to see: everywhere, the goal of protecting the most fragile people is shared. With regard to the denial of hospital care to persons with disabilities or loss of autonomy, I held a press conference with Sophie Cluzel on Saturday, during which we affirmed with the utmost determination that it was inconceivable and unthinkable that any obstacle to access to care would be posed due to a physical, mental or mental disability. It's out of the question. The disorder arose from the unfortunate publication, on the website of a regional health agency, of an internal document, itself somewhat unfortunate, which was later modified by a learned society of resuscitation. The document, which absolutely does not reflect reality, was immediately corrected, and the persons responsible explained this. How can we imagine that in a country like France, even as we salute heroes who save lives on a daily basis, people would be able to sort out according to disability? Let me pay tribute to all the players in the world of mental health and psychiatry: I brought them together this morning on the phone to pay tribute to the remarkable work they are doing, under extremely difficult conditions. In psychiatric hospitals, confinement can be even harder. I therefore welcome the commitment of all caregivers in the mental health sector, as it is not sufficiently done. For what they do and for their exceptional result in the prevention and preservation of these establishments, hat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u24	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u25	On April 4, Minister of Solidarity and Health, you said that the delivery of masks to caregivers was now weekly. However, protections of all kinds continue in fact to be sorely lacking in some hospitals, particularly in the Grand Est and Île-de-France regions. The stories of caregivers are icy: overblouses absent or tearing themselves because of their poor quality, rationing masks, which even sometimes arrive mouldy. We hear the caregivers, we've interviewed them: it's the D system, they tell us. The University Hospital – CHU – in Lille has even set up a sewing workshop to make blouses, while the civil hospices in Lyon offer a tutorial to make aprons with garbage bags! On the east side, the head of the emergency department of the hospital in Sarreguemines, stated yesterday, on France 3, not yet receiving masks from the state, but only thanks to the solidarity of the private. In this region that is suffering and in the midst of a crisis, rather than providing masks, the regional health agency has considered closing nearly two hundred beds and six hundred posts in Nancy. The result: as we are in a phase of worsening of the crisis – I repeat the terms you used this morning – many healthcare workers feel abandoned by the state, and many remain deprived of protection, at the risk of their lives as well as ours. Worse, you're threatening some sanctions, like in Hautmont, in the North. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I ask you today, Minister, to give us, as well as the caregivers who hear us, clear and precise elements, with no announcement effect: what exactly is the situation of the 500,000 masks a day that you promised to the medical and social sector on April 4th? How many have already been distributed and how many will be distributed by the end of the week? What orders have been placed exactly, in terms of masks as well as other necessary protections, like blouses? Which contracts have you entered into in a certain way, with which companies and with which delivery times? Mr Le Drian announced this morning, it is now known that masks from China will not arrive until the end of June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u26	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u27	Mr Coquerel, I will try to answer as much as possible; I invite you to try to be as factual in your questions, which contain, forgive me to report, many mistakes. First of all, I'm not threatening anyone with sanctions – or you have to explain to me who I'm threatening, and how. To say I'm making threats is a slanderous accusation: I'm not threatening anyone. You make a sign of your head: we therefore agree that this first assertion was false.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u28	No! There have been sanctions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u29	Then you say that masks from China do not arrive. However, we have placed a firm order of 1.6 billion masks, currently in reliable production, of which 66% are in China. These masks arrive regularly: 20 million arrived last week, 25 million this week, in addition to the French production.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u30	But how much in hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u31	Mr Coquerel, you're asking me for figures, I'll give you them. You're also talking about the 500,000 masks a day requested by the medical-social sector. These are the 500,000 masks we deliver every week to institutions, the equivalent of the number of masks required for each day worked. This will not have escaped you, Mr Coquerel: logistics can be complex. If it still sins in some places – and I do regret it, because it is not normal – the equivalent of 500,000 surgical masks a day are well destocked and arrowed towards the medical-social sector. In the case of blouses and overblouses, we distributed an additional 400,000 blouses and ordered 5 million blouses, as well as masks, gloves and charlottes. In the territories most affected by the epidemic, the explosion of hospital consumption can lead to tensions in access to protective equipment: again, believe that I regret it. In hospitals in the Greater East region, we tripled the number of resuscitation beds, and mobilized the health reserve and city staff to support caregivers in hospitals. This in fact greatly increases the consumption of equipment. You're right, it's up to us to protect those who protect us. We make every effort to do so under the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u32	That's not what's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u33	With your question, it is not only the state that you are targeting, but all the actors in regional health agencies, health insurance, social security, hospitals, home helpers, who are mobilizing in all territories to find solutions even when it is particularly difficult. Through this answer, I wish to greet them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u34	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u35	Since the beginning of the health crisis, hospital staff have been doing exceptional work to combat the epidemic in our country. Despite shortages of masks, blouses or breathers, their sense of dedication is exemplary. Everyone measures how our public health system is a common good that we need to preserve and strengthen to meet the challenges ahead. In this context, we are deeply shocked by the remarks made this weekend by the director of the Greater East Regional Health Agency, confirming in the midst of a health crisis the elimination of 598 jobs and 174 beds at Nancy Hospital. These indecent comments also echo a note by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations of 26 March, commissioned by the executive. Far from considering a massive investment plan in the public hospital, this document only resumes the stable revenues that have weakened the public health service, by providing for rampant privatization and by continuing the commodification of care. Since January 2018 and the beginning of our French tour of hospitals, we Communist parliamentarians will alert you to the crisis situation in the hospital, while putting on the table proposals. The Covid-19 crisis further underlines the need to abandon the deadly orientations of the last thirty years, leading to the elimination of jobs and beds. Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, we and the country are concerned about the comments of some government officials or the financial community's recommendations on the future of the public hospital. Can you tell us – and why not, reassure us – about your state of mind and that of the Government regarding the future of the public hospital at the end of this health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u36	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u37	With regard to the future of the hospital, and in particular Nancy's, I believe that we are not far from sharing the same spirit, Mr.Peu. I fully understand the emotion that followed the intervention of a state servant who, I imagine, thought he would do well in recalling the existence of a reorganization plan. I immediately announced publicly that all plans for reorganisation, restructuring, bed reduction were suspended. It's time to mobilize everyone, alongside caregivers who save lives. I believe that in the following day, as the President of the Republic has said, we will have to rethink our health and hospital model to take into account the lessons of this health crisis, with its incredible successes, such as the increase in the number of beds in resuscitation, the unwavering mobilization or the ability to react, wherever the peak is very high, to cope – because the caregivers face, with bravery and courage – but also by taking into account the tensions observed and by measuring the implications on the organisation of the hospital park and on the funding plans as well as on the careers. These are fundamental questions. As far as Nancy's hospital is concerned, I have been clear, and the Prime Minister himself has written to the chairman of the medical establishment committee and to the general manager of Nancy's hospital to reassure them: we cannot be clearer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u38	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u39	My question, with which my colleague François de Rugy is associated, is addressed to Mrs Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Minister, researchers are at the forefront of the war against coronavirus and form a battalion of excellence. Whether at the Institut Pasteur, where more than 300 of them are mobilized, at the Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale – INSERM – or at other research centres, women and men are working hard to find effective solutions against the virus. French medical research has been at the forefront of international research for centuries. We owe it to great names in our history: Louis Pasteur and Marie Curie, of course, but also, closer to us, Jules Hoffmann or Françoise Barré-Sinoussi. This excellence is also the result of a permanent commitment by the state for decades. In announcing the allocation of an additional €5 billion for research, including 1 billion dedicated to health, the President of the Republic affirms France's desire within Europe to remain at the forefront of international research. While it is too early to determine the precise allocation of these additional appropriations, it should be noted that emergency funding has already been allocated to eleven Covid-19-related research projects. These projects, carried by French researchers of excellence, are a source of hope for all of us. Can you, Madam Minister, provide us with more information about them and, perhaps, provide us with information on the first broad guidelines for the allocation of additional funds for research? Moreover, biotechnology companies, often with unique agility in the medical research landscape, are currently facing difficulties in presenting their Covid-19-related projects to the public authorities and in obtaining, where these projects are deemed relevant, urgent funding. So, Madam Minister, would it not be possible to establish a fund to support these Covid-19-specific therapeutic projects carried out by biotechnology companies when they can move to the clinical trial stage within a short period of time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u40	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u41	You were right, honourable Member, to recall the excellence of French research and the way in which it was committed. Thanks to the device called REACTing, we have been able to continue an epidemic watch and to keep on alert, since ancient crises such as those of Zika and chikungunya, research teams specialized in infectiousology. This enabled us, as early as February, to support twenty urgent research projects, including first clinical tests. This has also enabled us to support, in the amount of EUR 16 million, 44 projects submitted to the National Research Agency. More broadly, an additional €50 million has been made available to ensure that not a single project that can inform us about the virus, whether it's how it spreads, the links between clinical aspects and the immune response, or its different forms of replication, depending on the populations concerned, is excluded from funding. Beyond these biology projects, we are also funding projects in the humanities and social sciences to enable us to better understand the response of populations to what we are currently experiencing, including confinement. These projects must also enable us to better combat false news, which sometimes hurt as much as the viral infection itself, or to ensure the best possible understanding by our fellow citizens of the exceptional situation they are experiencing. In addition, EUR 4 billion will be made available to all stakeholders who will be able to provide technological or therapeutic solutions, of which biotechnology companies are of course part. The role of the analysis, research and expertise committee is to propose any solution that is viable very quickly, and to take a scientific look at the projects that these companies will propose to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u42	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u43	I would like to associate my colleagues Jean-Jacques Gaultier and Fabrice Brun with my question, as well as all members of the Republican Group. Prime Minister, we cannot live again, with the screening tests, the lack of anticipation and the shortage that we are experiencing today with the masks and protective equipment. The World Health Organization keeps repeating this: screening is the best bulwark to effectively control coronavirus. However, diagnosis is sorely lacking in France and your screening strategy raises questions. There are currently two types of tests. The former seek the presence of the virus itself, by sampling from the nose using polymerase chain reaction technology known as PCR. They are made by order and reimbursed by social security. Unfortunately, these tests are reserved only for symptomatic caregivers – while 30% of patients may be asymptomatic – and, within the general population, only for serious and hospitalized patients. Why? The second method of testing is based on serology, i.e. the search for antibodies against coronavirus, by blood test. These serological tests, used in China and Germany, are extremely effective. Since 1 April, they are available in France, in some laboratories, for a cost of about 60 euros. Why are they still not reimbursed by social security? When will they be? It is imperative to avoid double-speed testing. Generalization of screening is absolutely fundamental to successful release of containment when the time comes. Prime Minister, can you tell us exactly how you plan to conduct this large-scale scientific and logistical battle?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u44	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u45	I would like to stress once again, Mr Viala, that it is necessary to be extremely precise and factual. There are actually three types of tests. The PCR test is used to determine whether an individual is carrying the virus at the time of symptoms. It is indeed reserved for symptomatic people who also have criteria of severity, fragility, or who are led to be in contact with fragile people – this is the case for caregivers, for example. We are increasing the use of these tests: last week, 22000 were conducted on average every day and we announced that we would increase this number to 50,000 per day during the month of April. This will allow us to carry out massive screening in EHPADs. A second type of test can also be used to determine whether an individual is ill: these are rapid antigenic tests, for which we have placed orders. We hope that they will be delivered, but they do not yet exist anywhere in the process of industrialization in sufficient quantity. Some are being manufactured in the United States; We have ordered millions of copies. We will receive them when they are available, which will allow us to add them to the total of the tests we are doing today by PCR. Finally, there is an important subject: serology. It allows us to determine not whether an individual is ill at the time of the test, but whether he or she has been immunized, whether he or she has antibodies against the virus – whether he or she can be quiet, if you allow me that expression. Serological testing is no more available in other countries than in our own; We are not without it any more than the others. Research, innovation and development in this field have in fact been successful, both abroad and in France. We are currently placing the necessary orders, while innovation has just arrived and these tests are in the phase of pre-industrialisation. We have to equip ourselves with it. This is a good thing: there are very promising French producers. All of these tests, like all the care in our country – it is a pride for our nation and for our model of social protection – are obviously covered by health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u46	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u47	When will these serological tests be available?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u48	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u49	Prime Minister, today, three weeks ago, confinement became the only way to slow down the Covid-19 epidemic. It was necessary; We supported him. Our collective efforts will begin to produce their effects. They must not be released when we have not yet stabilized the pandemic. Your comments on the deconfinement have alarmed many French: poorly prepared, poorly anticipated, it could cause another outbreak of contamination and new deaths. In this regard, the current situation in China does not reassure us. However, whatever strategy will be decided, deconfination cannot be achieved without real means to monitor the immune state of the population and avoid contagion. The Minister of Solidarity and Health has just told us that there are reliable serological tests. That's good news. So I too repeat my questions: when will we be able to test the population? By the end of April? Late May? Indeed, we will not be able to fight the virus in the deconfinity phase without the means to do so. I'm coming up with the masks. The Academy of Medicine indicates that it may be useful to wear one; But it appears more or less from what I read that if it had not been said earlier, it was that there were not enough masks. What to do with the trouble in our fellow citizens! In the debunking phase, masks will be needed for everyone. It will take three or four per person. Will we have the means to do so, knowing also the rumours that many masks would be negotiated on the tarmac of Chinese airports and handed over to the highest bidder? We're having a hard time understanding your strategy. It seems to me that you are trying to prepare the next move without even knowing clearly what you have today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u50	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u51	Mr President, you are referring to the question of tomorrow – indeed, rather the day after tomorrow: you are asking us about what will happen when we are ready to proceed with the deconfination that some of us are talking about. Personally, I don't talk about it very much: I'm just answering the questions I'm being asked. Indeed, we are working on it. It's not about tomorrow. Today, the imperative is to ensure the effectiveness of containment and to ensure that the virus circulates slowly enough so that the number of severe cases, justifying admission to a resuscitation service, does not exceed the overall capacity of our hospital system. Today, therefore, it is time for containment – and it will last. I am fully aware of the fact that it is difficult for many French people to cope with, but it is essential to avoid us finding ourselves in a situation even worse than the one we are experiencing today. The debunking, whether it takes place tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, raises many questions. They are complex, because many of them are due to information that we do not yet have. That's why we're getting ready. Preparing, that means we're not ready. Preparing is working technically, scientifically, logistically, to be ready when the time comes. That is what we are doing right now. This is a difficult exercise, as I have already said, and we will discuss the essential elements of it when the assumptions on which we are working are verified and the scenarios are written. But for the time being, all these issues are largely premature. What matters is to ensure that confinement is respected in order to alleviate our hospital services, which are in great need, as we all know, in order to be able to prepare for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u52	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u53	This question by my colleague Fiona Lazaar is addressed to the Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Our country is facing an unprecedented crisis. The state, more than ever, must respond to a health crisis that affects the entire territory, but also to combat an economic crisis that affects businesses, self-employed people and employees. In addition to these two fronts, which fully involve Parliament, the Government and all the public authorities, there is a third front: inequality. Indeed, what this collective test also teaches us is that we are not all equal in the face of the epidemic. This crisis has been acting for several weeks as a revealing of social and territorial inequalities. More than ever, it challenges our collective solidarity. Today, the most vulnerable are particularly affected by the epidemic and its consequences. This is the case for homeless people, migrants – as evidenced by the emergency situation in Grande-Synthe – and for all those who live in the informal economy and are deprived of resources, but also for many precarious families who do not have the means to cope with the crisis. When you live outside, when you occupy an overcrowded dwelling, when you continue to work as a deliveryman, supermarket cashier or garbage collector, often using public transport, it is more difficult to protect yourself from the disease. The closure of schools and canteens, on the other hand, increases the shopping basket of already very modest families, while distance school follow-up penalizes families who are not equipped or able to accompany their children's learning. Important steps have been taken and should be welcomed: the opening of emergency shelters, the creation of a civic reserve and support for food aid. At a time when family and community solidarity are made more difficult by confinement, Ms Lazaar wishes to stress the urgent need to strengthen our action for the poorest. As the Government had said, the protection of the most vulnerable was a priority. She would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, about the complementary measures that can be taken to support our most vulnerable citizens in this crisis, in particular on the advisability of an exceptional solidarity allowance for modest families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, he is no one in France whose daily life is not affected by the epidemic crisis we are going through. The Government is fighting on all fronts to bring our country out of this unprecedented crisis. My work with Minister Olivier Véran aims to ensure the presence of national solidarity among the most fragile and all those who need help at this critical time. The President of the Republic has reaffirmed that the epidemic crisis must not lead to a social tragedy. The first challenge is to maintain food aid thanks to the support of the volunteers who have mobilized themselves through the civil reserve platform, but also and above all thanks to the associations and the communal centres of social action, which more than ever exceed themselves in order to succeed the impossible. Julien Denormandie and I are making sure that service cheques are distributed to homeless people who would encounter difficulties in accessing essential goods. Our second objective is to ensure the continuity of social work among the most vulnerable, thanks in particular to the support of the students in voluntary social work that the National Union of Training and Research Associations in Social Intervention, UNAFORIS, and I have mobilized through the creation of this social reserve. The third challenge is to maintain the payment of social assistance throughout the crisis, even when recipients cannot take the steps usually necessary to renew them. The family allowance funds are also mobilised to grant, on an exceptional basis, individual support to families, particularly single parents. Ms. Fiona Lazaar proposed a specific allowance for the most vulnerable families for whom this period of confinement resulted in additional expenditure. I confirm that we are studying this solution carefully. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the daily commitment of all volunteers, employees, social protection workers and social workers, because solidarity is an obligation in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u56	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u57	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of Solidarity and Health, we wish, Bernard Perrut, Jean-Marie Sermier, Didier Quentin, all Members of Parliament, the Republicans and myself, to alert you to the situation of our EHPAD. At least 2,400 residents of these facilities have succumbed to coronavirus, and this assessment is expected to increase considerably in the coming days. The population of some institutions is even decimated by absolutely frightening waves of death. It is imperative that we protect their residents and their staff. The masks, overblouses and hydro-alcoholic gels are just beginning to reach them, but better protecting EHPADs also means multiplying the tests that you limit, for the moment, to the first cases of each establishment. The strategy of systematic isolation, which has been adopted for lack of extensive screening, is not satisfactory, so sensitive are the ethical and functional issues it raises. We cannot permanently cut off our parents and grandparents from the world, inflicting on them the test of loneliness and immense distress. Nor can we permanently force so many people to confide with the residents for lack of better solutions. My questions are simple: when do you really plan to implement massive screening in EHPADs? How do you intend to alleviate the sense of isolation of residents of these institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u58	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u59	Mr Arnaud Viala, I said earlier that the EHPADs were the subject of particular attention. Residents of these institutions are people who, in most cases, have lost much of their autonomy, with an average age of eighty-five years. The French may not know that this is often the last home of frail elderly people. Each month, more than 10,000 of them die outside of any epidemic context. They are therefore particularly vulnerable to any influenza epidemic, and obviously to coronavirus. This is why difficult decisions in terms of containment and protection have been made, difficult for both the elderly and those working in EHPAD, for caregivers and the family. The decision to limit visits can only be weighed and, I believe, no screening replaces confinement. If, tomorrow, based on a massive screening of caregivers and residents of an institution that did not reveal any positive cases, visits were allowed, there would be a risk that the virus would be brought in. Even though everyone would have been declared negative for the test on Monday, who tells you that on Tuesday a contagious person will not enter the establishment? Unless there is a permanent screening of caregivers, there will be no real screening, i.e. screening that is sufficiently accurate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] What we propose is to tighten the meshes of the net by detecting more from the first alert, as soon as a person is ill. As I said earlier, this strategy requires enormous work involving the communities, the elected representatives of the territories, the departments, the mayors, the regional health agencies, the health reserve, the state power, the hospitals, the EHPADs themselves. It's a huge project that we announced yesterday. It is a very strong objective that we are setting ourselves, because it is at this price that we can further strengthen the level of security within the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u60	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u61	Minister, it is not at all my practice to argue, and that is not my objective, but the question-and-answer session in the Government as it is currently taking place is the only time when the Members of Parliament who are here can question you about the decisions you are making. It is all the more important that democracy suffers from this situation, which I regret. I asked you earlier when serological tests would be available: you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u62	I didn't have time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u63	I now ask you when the tests will be deployed on a larger scale in EHPAD. I listened carefully to you this morning and I understand your arguments, but we need a timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u64	We continue our meeting with questions on economic and social issues. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u65	Prime Minister, the Government is working to find solutions to gratify those who are mobilizing in this time of crisis. Similarly, my colleagues in the group, in particular Régis Juanico, and myself, offer an exceptional bonus for public officials who are on the front line. However, I would like to draw your attention to the special situation of living aids. Whether recruited by the private or voluntary sector or by a territorial community, the auxiliaries will not be able to take full advantage of a financial reward of the Macron bonus type, either because the legislation does not allow it or because the structures which host them cannot afford it. It would be regrettable if they were once again forgotten as they were during the "yellow vest" measures. It would be all the more regrettable that we owe them a lot: which family did not have, had or will not have recourse to these staff, mostly female, who survey our territories to accompany our elders when families are too far away or too busy? On weekdays and weekends, they enter delicately into the privacy of families who sometimes live in inadequate housing, in order to perform the most ungrateful tasks, moreover having to accommodate the demands of families, all for a wage of misery, a forced part-time, hours cut off. In this period of confinement, too concerned with the situation of our elders, these staff have nevertheless maintained the continuity of service, taking risks for their families. It obliges us. It is up to us to find together the way to reward them on an exceptional basis. To that end, I propose that you double the rate of hours worked during confinement. Our parents, grandparents and those who care for them are well worth the nation's effort to compensate for this exceptional burden on structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u66	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u67	Mr Bricout, first of all I would like to point out to you – but you know – that the Government has ensured, Muriel Pénicaud can attest to this, that staff employed at home, regardless of their status and that of their employer, are eligible for partial unemployment. I am convinced that the upgrading you are requesting will also be included in the order made by the Minister of Labour at the last Council of Ministers. You referred in particular to the situation of auxiliaries of living, home helpers employed by the public sector, and through it the situation of public officials, holders or contract workers. This is an opportunity for me to pay tribute to their commitment. The moments we are experiencing illustrate how committed these men and women are to the public interest and public service. They are the face of national solidarity. As far as the public sector is concerned, we have ensured that the income of all those affected by housekeeping measures in the context of confinement is maintained. That is why we favour the use of special leave of absence and have decided that communities, many of which employ home helpers, contract staff or part-time staff, many in the professions you mentioned, will be supported by the National Health Insurance Fund, through an exceptional scheme to cover part of the remuneration of these staff in the event of special leave of absence. We want to go further, in keeping with the promise of the President of the Republic to recognize the commitment of the health care workers, not only by paying overtime more, but also by working, under the authority of the Prime Minister, to define the modalities of an exceptional premium. We also intend to recognize the commitment of the State officials who, mobilized in this crisis, accompany the implementation of business continuity plans on the ground. Finally, I would like to say that I talk to all territorial employers every week. They asked me that communities be able to pay their agents a flexible premium that is taxed and exempt from social contributions. We are working to develop a regulatory or legislative vehicle that will allow them to do so. The Prime Minister and we ourselves know how essential these personnel are in this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u68	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u69	On behalf of the health and safety of the French, I ask you, Prime Minister, to limit our country's productive activity to the strictest necessary. As a political leader, I saw the cost of maintaining non-essential activities for the country. I have seen many elected officials, candidates, activists, assessors of polling stations heavily beaten because the municipal elections were maintained. Don't repeat that mistake, Prime Minister. You know as well as I do that the curve of the epidemic in our country follows the Italian curve ten days late. On 9 March, Giuseppe Conte, President of the Italian Council of Ministers, declared, like the French government today, that the productive apparatus should continue to function before, twelve days later, on 21 March, being forced by the scale of the epidemic to declare the cessation of any production activity other than those strictly necessary. We must not lie: we too will continue to be hard hit – your Minister of Health pointed out this morning. Yesterday, the Minister of the Interior declared that it was necessary to tighten the containment. We know that this may limit individual freedoms more and more, which will have to be discussed again, but this contradicts the injunction to continue economic activity, too many sectors simply do not have sufficient protection to avoid contamination, both in public transport and in the workplace. Maintaining or even promoting work, whether waged or not, in these sectors means exposing the lives of workers and their loved ones to unnecessary risks, to the risk of increasing the spread of the virus – I am thinking of McDonald's announcements, which intends to resume its activity, a counterproductive decision because it will delay the release of the confinement. We have the opportunity not to be taken short again. That is why I ask you when you will concentrate the means of maximum protection to the benefit of the activities strictly indispensable to the countries and to put an end to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u70	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u71	Mr President, the question you are asking is who, in the context of this crisis and confinement, must work for the good of the nation and in what manner. Both issues are closely related. On the first subject, we have already discussed: it is very difficult to say which sectors are indispensable and which others are not. We will all agree, for example, that the food sector is vital. The French must be able to feed themselves, and this implies, upstream of the supermarket, warehouses, logistics, transport, mechanics to maintain the means of transport, in addition to the agro-food industry, agriculture and packaging. One can see that this single activity mobilizes a very important part of the economy. Economic activity must be understood from end to end, as a chain whose links are interdependent. It is therefore difficult to answer your question, and that is why we have chosen another choice. Italy, which had endeavoured to draw up a list of essential activities, was constantly complementing it, as the economic sectors were interdependent. However, we can act on ways of working. The economic service of the country is already reduced to a minimum, since almost half of the activity is stopped or slowed down. In this context, we share your concern to preserve the health and safety of workers. Three weeks ago, we set up a project team that works with professionals, and I consult the social partners on this every two days. Good practice guides are established by trade: thirteen have already been published, and another twenty will be published this week. We monitor their proper application in companies, knowing that the Labour Code imposes an obligation of means on them and requires them to organise their activities in order to protect their employees. So we help companies with guides, but we also control them. There is no question of choosing between economics and health: we must ensure that the lives of the French continue, while protecting the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u72	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u73	This question by Mr Eric Girardin, Member of Parliament for the Marne, to which he associates Mr Thierry Benoit, Member of Parliament for Ille-et-Vilaine, addresses Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance. The crisis we are going through is not only health, but also economic. The Government has grasped the extent of this, as it has allocated a €45 billion envelope to support businesses and safeguard jobs. I would also like to welcome the action and mobilization of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this area. Private actors have also engaged, in particular banks and insurers. On 23 March, the Fédération française de l'assurance announced that its members would participate in the solidarity fund to the tune of EUR 200 million. This decision is in addition to the measures announced on 19 March to maintain all of the undertakings' guarantee contracts in difficulty, in the event of late payment, during the entire containment period. Many professionals are calling for an additional effort: they want the pandemic to be recognized as a natural disaster, so that the exploitation losses they suffer as such are addressed. However, no mechanism seems to allow this, apart from specific contractual provisions. Is the Government working on a legal tool to cover these operating losses? Does it intend to encourage other forms of mobilisation of insurers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u74	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u76	You are asking me about the involvement of insurers in the collective effort of businesses and individuals to deal with the pandemic. Thank you for mentioning the work done by the Minister of Economy and Finance to make the participation of insurers immediate, concrete and pragmatic. This effort can be found in the company solidarity fund, which will provide EUR 200 million over the next few days to the very small companies that need it most. It must be supplemented by measures aimed at undertakings which will find it difficult to pay their insurance premiums. Insurers have made commitments to this end, and must meet with the Prime Minister tomorrow to continue the reflection on their participation in the collective effort. On the other hand, it is not possible, for legal reasons, to apply the health disaster regime here. As much as the natural disaster regime is mandatory in insurance contracts and covers damage to property, the health disaster regime does not necessarily appear there and covers only a small amount of the same damage. As not all companies pay a health disaster premium, this risk cannot be shared, and the State cannot manage its reinsurance. So we can't use it. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent us from developing, as we do, a mechanism for the coverage of health disasters for the future, so that the current difficulties do not recur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u77	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u78	This question by Mrs Aurore Bergé is addressed to Mr Franck Riester, Minister for Culture. Containment profoundly upsets our daily lives; It deprives us of the link with our families and relatives, and obliges us to reinvent spaces of social bond. More than ever, culture and the media demonstrate the central role they play in our lives. Every day, creators mobilize: they draw, write, interpret, play and think about the moment we live, just as much as they allow us to escape from it. Public and private cultural operators – theatres, operas, museums, libraries – responded to the call. The media, both public and private, mobilize, keep us informed and provide our families with renewed access to culture and educational, scientific and entertainment programs. However, the world of culture and communication is facing the crisis: cinemas, bookstores, theatres, theatres and museums were the first to have to close; shoots and recordings are stopped; tours and festivals are postponed; Media advertising revenues fell sharply, from 70 to 90 per cent. The Government has already released €22 million in direct support for the cultural sector, but more needs to be done. The artists and technicians of the show had signed contracts before the crisis, which cannot be honoured: will they be integrated into the calculation of their 507 hours? Is there a specific fund for theatres and performance scenes? The authors will certainly have access to the solidarity fund, but their income is paid irregularly and can differ considerably from month to month: how will this specificity be treated? Finally, the media have never experienced such a decline in advertising resources. This can permanently undermine the financing of information and audiovisual and cinematographic creation. Our cultural sovereignty and diversity are at stake. Mrs Aurore Bergé has proposed an investment credit for advertisers, in order to anticipate and initiate economic recovery and to support the communication sector. What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u79	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u80	The Minister of Culture has the floor, whose recovery we welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. All sectors of activity are affected by the health crisis, starting with the cultural sector. This is why the Ministry of Culture, in conjunction with the other ministries, has ensured that the professionals concerned – artists, authors, intermittents, entertainment companies – are integrated into the general economic arrangements designed to deal with the crisis. We are continuing this work. In this way, I will present during the week a specific plan dedicated to the live, non-musical show. I also announced yesterday the creation of a crisis unit dedicated to festivals, so that all the organizers of these events have an interlocutor, both in the region – including overseas – and in the central administration, to which they can express their difficulties and ask for answers. We are also preparing for the future, even though most of our resources are now focused on the aid that will enable cultural actors to overcome the crisis. As Mrs Aurore Bergé pointed out, the audiovisual sector is particularly affected. I thank journalists and professionals in the press and the audiovisual media, who keep us informed and offer programs adapted to containment. I address a particular satisfaction to the public audiovisual sector, which contributes to the project of a "learning nation" and provides educational content to our compatriots. We will continue to work with artists and cultural professionals to help them overcome this terrible moment and prepare for the future, so that tomorrow, the arts and culture in our country will be as exceptional as they have always been.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u82	We continue with questions on various topics, always in connection with the health crisis. Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u83	This question by Ms. Josy Poueyto is addressed to Mrs. La Garde des Seales, Nicole Belloubet. The period of confinement is conducive to an increase in domestic and domestic violence. Effective measures were quickly taken by you to facilitate the alert: mobilization of pharmacies, preventive calls from law enforcement agencies, possibility of sending SMS to 114. Once the violent person has been identified or arrested, however, the question of follow-up arises. In her constituency in Pau, Ms. Josy Poueyto is approached by associations that are concerned about measures that can help victims in an emergency. The challenge now is to determine the rapid conditions of a de-habitation, as far as possible. Last week, the state announced that it would finance an additional 20,000 hotel nights to ensure the safety of people at risk. This is a good measure, even if we believe that the removal of the violent spouse must be the rule, so that the victim retains the enjoyment of his or her home in these difficult times. The Government also announced the establishment of a shelter platform to ensure the eviction of perpetrators of violence. It was to open last Friday and be made available to prosecutors. If it seems logical that the number of accommodation places depends on the identification of the needs expressed on the ground, can you specify, Madam Minister, how this arrangement will be organized to be quick and effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u84	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u85	We share Ms. Josy Poueyto's concern. I therefore requested that the follow-up of domestic violence should continue despite the closure of the courts; These are indeed priority and urgent disputes. Protection orders continue to be issued and immediate appearances issued. It was also essential to apply the removal measures imposed by the courts. That is why, in collaboration with Mrs Marlène Schiappa, we have decided to create an exceptional and temporary mechanism for immediate and effective action. The orientation platform designed to ensure the eviction of violent spouses, which opened yesterday, responds to this. It can be seized by e-mail, either by the judicial police officers – if, for example, prosecutors do not prosecute violent spouses but order an expulsion order – either by the prison services of insertion and probation, or by the associations, when the prosecutor ordered a judicial control measure with the expulsion of the violent spouse. This platform evaluates the housing available in the usual partners. If the park is insufficient, it can allocate hotel stays, the cost of which is borne by the State. In 24 hours, we have already received ten applications from different departments, from the small Parisian crown to more rural departments, notably the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the constituency of Mrs Josy Poueyto. We must respond in 24 hours, and some of them have already been satisfied, particularly in the Upper Rhine. We have therefore built a system that meets an objective of efficiency and immediacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u86	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u87	My question is to the Minister of National Education and Youth. The health crisis in our country has necessitated the closure of educational institutions, in favour of a system of educational continuity provided by teachers. Here I would like to thank them and to pay tribute to the immense, time-consuming work they do to maintain regular contact with their students, to maintain their knowledge and to make them acquire new knowledge – difficult missions in these unusual conditions. I would also like to thank the associations and the municipalities, which are also helping educational institutions, especially in small municipalities. There are a number of legitimate questions today. Despite the improvement in distance education, equality among pupils is challenged by differences in access to the Internet, lack of computer equipment at school or at home, the possibility of families helping children, and many other obstacles. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, about the shortcomings that will necessarily be experienced by many young people, at all levels, in their learning. In this respect, inequalities will increase further. What help will these students receive? Will the September re-entry be prepared accordingly? As far as examinations are concerned, the choice of continuous control seems right to me. However, teachers are surprised that the first averages are not taken into consideration. In addition, many parents and high school students ask about the harmonization jury and the granting of the mentions. Can you reassure the students of high schools "severely" during the school year, specifying the role and functioning of these juries? Finally, have any measures on the school card – opening or closing of classes – been or will they be taken with a view to the September school year?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u88	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u89	Madam Member, I agree first of all with your threefold tribute: tribute to the teachers, who are now on the front line to ensure educational continuity; pay tribute to all education staff, including school principals, CPEs, senior education counsellors, and to all staff who, together with teachers, will be looking for students; Finally, it is a tribute to national unity, because we feel that, behind the teachers, it is the whole country that is mobilized, starting with the parents of students, associated with the teachers in a form of complicity in order to help the children, each understanding that the profession of teacher is difficult and that all the teachers of France are committed to our students. This tribute also highlights the work that we have to do to compensate for the inequalities, which are likely to increase during the episode we are living with, each being referred to its family context. This underlines, on the contrary, the importance of the school of the Republic, which allows, in normal times, to combat inequalities; This acute awareness is important for the future. It is appropriate, Madam Member, to distinguish between what we do during the crisis and what we will do afterwards. During the crisis, we will look for the students; This is the meaning of the grid that I referred to and that we are putting in place, in particular with the help of the heads of institutions. This allows us to reduce, day after day, the number of students who are not included in the pedagogical continuity. Of course, there are others who do not benefit, but our efforts are bearing fruit, because we are a major public service for national education. We use special resources, such as computer equipment obtained through local authorities and associations, with which we work hand in hand. There are also other devices: La Poste will provide us with envelopes that will allow the free sending, from this week onwards, of documents written by the teachers to the students we cannot reach via the Internet; and there is also the weekly phone call. Unfortunately, having no time to answer your entire question, honourable Member, I would just like to say that, after the crisis, at the time of the return to school, arrangements will be put in place to customize the journeys and to take into account any delays in learning due to confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u90	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u91	For four weeks now, the school has been stopped. While the Ministry of National Education is trying to maintain the link between the teacher and the pupil and ensure the continuation of learning, we see how difficult this so-called "teaching continuity" is: the unavailability of working parents; lack of skills, as it is not enough to have attended school to know how to teach; Finally, the lack of tools, because in many small homes, the only link to the Internet is the phone: no computer, even less printer – and sometimes nothing at all in the white areas, in our countryside. You admit you've lost contact with 8% of students, but in many territories it's much more; In my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, your administration thus estimates the proportion of students who have dropped out of school to one third, a proportion which reaches 60% in technical education. It is now clear that school at home is likely to increase school inequalities a little more. We cannot accept the serious and lasting consequences for the students – for example for those of CP: we know that it is at the heart of this term that their flight to reading and writing must occur. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Minister of National Education and Youth, do not add the school crisis to the health crisis. Yes, there will need to be a massive catch-up plan and, no doubt, adapt the programmes so as not to endorse the delay experienced by some students. Can you, while your administration is already announcing to our communes the closure of several classes, commit yourself before the national representation to launch a moratorium on class closures? I learned this noon that, of the 1200 additional posts you announced on 27 March, there would be none for the Seine-Saint-Denis, which is nevertheless the youngest and most popular department in France and which is currently paying a heavy toll on the crisis of the Covid-19. I must say, it stunned me! I didn't plan to finish my question that way, but, minister, could you reassure us and tell us that this is a fake news? So I wouldn't have lost my afternoon...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u92	[[Smile]] The Minister of National Education and Youth – who prefers the word "baliver" to the expression "fake news" – has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u93	Member, I will reassure you and save your afternoon – and even more. This was indeed a balverine: your department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, will benefit from 127 job creations this year, making it one of the departments where there will be the most. This was already the case last year, with 10 per cent of national job creations registered. It did not escape me that some elected officials of Seine-Saint-Denis had published a forum on the subject, even as we are going to beat the historical record of the supervision rate in the department next year. I would like for France as a whole to have these exchanges that we have every year at the same time in a completely transparent way. We cannot talk about closures without talking about openings, and there are many more openings than class closures in Seine-Saint-Denis. We will keep the promises of the President of the Republic regarding the duplication of the major section classes in REP and REP+, in order to limit the number of pupils per class to twelve; Idem for CPs and CE1s – most of the time, it's already done. We will be up to the challenges of your department, thanks, I repeat, to record levels of supervision. I have also made a commitment, with the support of the Prime Minister, who has arbitrated in this regard, that there would be no more class closures without the mayor's agreement in rural areas and that in urban areas, in each municipality, the ratio of supervision would be analysed with the mayor and that the balance of class openings and closures would necessarily result in an improvement of the latter. That is the commitment we have made. You can, if you wish, control common by commune that it is well respected, and if you find an exception, I am ready to remedy it. I therefore think that we are up to the situation, which requires better levels of supervision at primary school and a personalisation of the course of the pupils, as Mrs Descamps pointed out earlier: this is one of the imperatives for the coming school year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u94	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u95	I am speaking here for Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, Member of Parliament for Drôme. Prime Minister, on Saturday morning, we learned with fear that a terrible stabbing attack had taken place in the heart of Romans-sur-Isère. On that day, a young Sudanese, a refugee in France since June 2017, murdered two people and injured five others, who found themselves in an absolute state of emergency. Our emotion is great, and my thoughts go to the victims and their loved ones, to whom I extend all my support. I would like to pay tribute to the exemplary work of law enforcement, firefighters and caregivers, whose responsiveness has once again saved lives. I wish that all the light was shed on what happened. The National Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor's Office has dealt with this case. From the first elements in his possession, it appears that this attack is of a terrorist nature. Handwritten documents with religious connotations were found, in which the author complained, inter alia, of living in a country of unbelievers. With this tragic event, they are once again annihilated families, broken lives, broke in the middle of the street, by the obscurantist madness of Islamist fundamentalism. Wherever it comes from, wherever it is, we must fight it and not lower our guard, in order to defend the republican values to which we are so strongly attached. This attack is in addition to the previous ones and reminds us that, even in times troubled by the health crisis, the fight against terrorism must not suffer any respite. In the face of religious fundamentalism, the Government must be intractable. However, we feel that too little is being done to protect the French. After the President of the Republic's speeches on separatism, we expect action. When will the Government finally tackle the Islamist scourge?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u96	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u97	I greet Emmanuelle Anthoine, who followed minute by minute what happened Saturday in his constituency: at ten forty-five hours began the murderous journey of a man who attacked seven people and killed two of them. Beyond the only municipality of Romans-sur-Isère, it is, of course, our entire national territory that is bruised. I went there in the afternoon, first to give my support to the mayor of the commune, Mrs Thoraval, who mobilized all the municipal services in order to achieve a calming, as the tensions were strong in this city overwhelmed by the torpor of confinement and the heat of an early summer. I saw how bruised the city was, and how the mayor was engaging with the inhabitants to accompany them, as well as with the internal security forces – which I also want to welcome, since ten minutes after the alert was given, they managed to neutralize the assailant and put him at the disposal of the justice system to be interrogated. The investigation, first entrusted to the local prosecutor, was, in view of the information gathered over the hours, placed under the authority of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor, who, as you said, the Member of Parliament, considers, at the moment I speak to you, that there is a case to be investigated as a terrorist act. I would like to welcome the mobilization of all our forces; As part of this investigation, 150 specialized police officers are engaged to make the full and complete truth about this case and to verify that there is no risk that the event that took place in Romans-sur-Isère will experience rebounds in the national territory. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I would like to assure you, honourable Member, that, despite the context, our internal security forces are fully mobilized – in particular those who work within the counter-terrorism sub-directorate of the Central Directorate of the Judicial Police and within the Directorate-General for Internal Security. They demonstrate a commitment of every moment to prevent or defeat possible attacks; If sixty-one have been prevented and nineteen have failed since 2013, we owe it to the remarkable work done by these women and men who, in the shadows, protect the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u98	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-07-O1191.u99	Next sitting, Tuesday, 14 April 2020, at 15:00: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
