ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u1	The next item is the final reading of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021 (No. 3601).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u3	I stand before you this afternoon for the final vote on the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – for the year 2021: an exceptional PLFSS, I have repeated enough, for a year that has tested so many dogmas, so many certainties, a year that has tested our health system and our solidarity. My generation, our generation, had never known that. Last year, as rapporteur-general, I welcomed the return to balance and I believe that there were many of us on these benches happy to finally see the end of the tunnel. If today the balance may seem far away, let us not let bitterness dominate: balance is certainly essential – I am also the minister of balance of social accounts – but let us not lose sight of the fact that the figures do not mean much in themselves. Only in the circumstances can this budgetary package be understood and justified. It's a bundle that I assume perfectly, because from the beginning of the crisis, France has shown itself to be faithful to its values: to accompany each one according to his needs, not to leave anyone on the edge of the road, let alone in front of a hospital, on the pretext that he would not have the right social cover. It is the honor of a great nation and, if we end the tired year, we do not have to blush and we can look at the future without trembling. You have adopted, for the year 2020, an increase of no less than EUR 13.3 billion in the national objective of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM: it is an unprecedented amount, which is the result of the exceptional extra costs associated with the first wave of co-vid and the effort devoted to the support of healthcare workers. Before the crisis, there were few people who thought they were wealthy; Nor will it be necessary to consider that the commitments of the Secur de la santé are illegitimate or unreasonable. The promise of the President of the Republic to respond to the situation, no matter what the cost, was not a formula, and we are here to meet our commitments. But beyond what it devotes to the crisis that we are going through, the text is also the translation of Segur's commitments: apart from covid, ONDAM will increase by 6.2% in 2021, after having increased by 3.1% in 2020. It's historical. But this text is obviously not just a matter of figures: it provides for measures that will change the daily lives of caregivers and French people. I can only mention the most emblematic ones, the ones that were launched or enriched by the parliamentary debate: an exemption scheme targeted at the very small enterprises – and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – of the sectors most affected by the new curfew measure; in-hospital and EHPAD valuations to the amount of 183 euros net per month in public and private non-profit health-care institutions and EHPAD, and 160 euros net for the private for-profit sector; the financing of a co-divided premium for employees in home support and support services; the governance of the new branch of social security, dedicated to autonomy; extending paternity leave to 28 days, including seven mandatory days; the creation of a mission of general interest to combat violence against women; the guarantee of the paying third party and secrecy for the costs related to the abortion – voluntary termination of pregnancy; the generalisation of the full-paying third party for all equipment and care in the 100% Health basket; the strengthening of anti-fraud provisions; the sustainability of hospital hotels and birth homes; Finally, the recovery of hospital debt to the tune of EUR 13 billion. This PLFSS has been greatly enriched by the work of Parliament: while the original bill had 51 articles, there are now almost 140. I welcome the commitment of parliamentarians – and in particular of the rapporteur-general – who, beyond sensitivities, have been exemplary of demand and rigour on a text that asks for it every year, but this year perhaps a little more than the others. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates have been lively, but always passionate, and it is to be welcomed that the public hospital, caregivers, the family, the elderly and self-reliance are fully mobilized by the representatives of the nation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But the debates on health and social protection do not end with the PLFSS: the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification, which we will begin to examine in a few hours, and the reform of the old age will allow, beyond the crisis we are going through, to continue to advance the strengthening of the social protection of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u4	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u5	We find ourselves at the final stage of our Assembly's consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. I have had the opportunity, both at first reading and again, in our debates as well as in my report, to set out its content at length, and I will therefore not go back to it in detail. Everyone is now familiar with its flagship provisions, which the Minister has just recalled: the extension of measures to support the economy by means of exemptions, aid for payment or partial activity, the structuring and financing of the fifth branch of social security, the unprecedented investment in the public hospital, the upgrading of the remuneration of hospital staff, EHPADs and home help services, the introduction of a longer paternity leave, including seven mandatory days. On the other hand, I would like to highlight what seems to me to be the great lesson of this PLFSS for 2021. In my view, the advances I have just mentioned illustrate what, in this difficult period, is likely to give prospects and hope. The crisis we are experiencing could have caused a form of torpor and sideration, but we have not given in to it: on the contrary, I have the feeling that we have found the resources to continue to advance our social security project by following two strong ideas. The first is that our social model, with its fairness, flexibility and experience, carries an important part of the response to the crisis. The second is that in order to move forward, this system must be reformed and planned for the long term, relying on structures, logics and mechanisms that can adapt to the realities of today and tomorrow. The fifth branch of social security, long announced, long postponed, which we finally created this summer and then consolidated throughout the review of the PLFSS, is one of the most illuminating examples. Despite disagreements, which have been able to express themselves clearly and sincerely, our debates have shown our House's strong support for this bill – support for disagreements will probably re-express in this last discussion. I also note broader moments of consensus on certain subjects, on amendments tabled by the majority, but also by other groups, like the provisions to strengthen the fight against social fraud that have enriched the text. That is the whole point of the parliamentary debate, to which everyone here is naturally attached. The examination of the Social Security Financing Bill is an exercise in which I, as rapporteur-general, fully appreciate the immense qualities. Of course, I note the possibility of taking over not only figures – those of revenue forecasts, of deficit, of ONDAM, of other expenditure targets – thanks to high-quality financial reporting. But I am thinking above all of the opportunity to debate what we want for our health system, for access to care, for autonomy, for the family, for pensions, as many areas as social security shapes on a daily basis. The moment of the PLFSS therefore remains for me – and also for many of you – an indispensable moment for our Assembly: a time of a particular political and technical density, which allows us to foresee but also, in many respects, to build the future of our social protection. But it is also in my capacity as rapporteur-general that I see the real limitations of this exercise. I will quote two for an illustration. The delays in the review of the finance bill have led this year – rightly – to a few months. I will merely observe objectively that the PLFSS is subject to such deadlines every year, and I hope that we can find, in good intelligence with the Government, ways to improve the conditions for our discussions, so that we can all have more time to read and amend the text. I also believe that the debate could become more comprehensive: some highly social issues are still outside the scope of funding laws. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss this with the Committee on Social Affairs in the coming months. So, twenty-five years after the creation of the financing laws, fifteen years after the last major reform of their contours and strong of the experience that is now ours, it seems to me time to put the work back on the job and to ask us all together about how we could improve the exercise of it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you can see, the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021, in terms of its content and the democratic exercise it represents, is already inviting us to look forward to a future that we all hope will be better, a future that we can only improve by adopting these provisions. For my part, I will do so with great pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u6	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u7	At a time when we are discussing this PLFSS in the Chamber for the last time, it is almost a year since the epidemic of covid-19 has arisen and it has fallen on a health system that is hyper-fragilized by years of unsustainable savings, particularly in the hospital. Because behind the accounting lines there are beds, and behind the beds there are lives: 100,000 beds have been closed in 20 years in the hospital, of which 7400 in the last two years, under your majority. And it continues: in the midst of a health crisis, some thirteen hospitals still pay the costs of this logic of closing beds. To this, we must of course add the precious time lost because of the calamitous management of the crisis, since the fiasco of the masks, which should not be worn before they became compulsory, to the small shops, that had to be closed while the metro trains remained crowded. Confiscation, deconfinity and incoherent reconfinition have thus succeeded each other, making us waste precious time. Now, and while other waves of the virus may occur, it is clear that the French cannot continue to live in the permanent alternation of confinements and deconfinations. Last week, the group of unsubmissed France presented a comprehensive document developing alternatives to containment. It is in addition to our eleven bills, the four guides, one dedicated to the protection of employees, the five complete plans and the report resulting from the hundred hearings that we carried out during the first wave, during the first confinement. Of course, everything has been systematically swept away by the Government and the majority, who in any case seem to have no control over the health crisis, especially since decisions are now taken in the famous defence counsel, who is subject to defence secrecy. No matter: we believe these proposals for alternatives to containment that are useful in the country, and we have worked in particular on the concept of rotation – working rotation, school rotation, transportation rotation – so as to avoid too high a concentration of people at the same place and at the same time, this measure must of course be associated with a strengthening of health protocols. Telework must be the rule; It must be fully provided with the means to do so. From now on, attention is focused on waiting for the vaccine, which arouses the hope of some, the attentism or even the distrust of others, but always the enthusiasm on stock markets. We solemnly affirm that the pandemic being global, the vaccine against covid-19 should be a common good for all mankind. Moreover, it cannot be the only solution to the epidemic: we must deploy the means necessary to design effective treatments for the virus. Twenty years ago, we produced 80% of the medicines we used; Today, the opposite is true: we import 80% of them. That is why we want the creation in France of a public drug centre for basic research and for the manufacture of essential molecules. Moreover, the health crisis is now coupled with a serious economic crisis. Many posts are being abolished, including by profitors who, while continuing to distribute incredible dividends, are growing in their jobs, in the midst of a crisis, in order to further increase their margins. Poverty has reached record levels, while wealth is increasingly concentrated in a few hands. To the hunger that is raging in many places is now added the cold beginning to fall upon our country. There is a need for an exceptional plan for homeless people, as well as a plan to combat energy insecurity; For example, we want free vital consumption of basic common goods, such as water and energy. This measure could be financed by progressive pricing. We need a guarantee of dignity, so that no one in this country lives below the poverty line. This is the exact moment when poverty is growing, which you choose to introduce a mandatory payment of 18 euros when you go to emergencies that do not lead to hospitalization. Undoubtedly, you are preparing for an increase in non-use of care. Minister, the "whatever it costs" was therefore only a formula, which was quickly corrected by the President of the Republic, who went to the hospital staff to declare that the problem was in the organization and not in the lack of resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Alain Bruneel also applauds]] Moreover, with the exception of the exceptional measures linked to the crisis of the covid-19, the economic trajectory did not change; Just in the hospital, with this PLFSS, you're claiming $800 million. We therefore propose that you reject this text because it does not satisfy the demands of health workers, although they are well before the crisis; You have to review your copy if you want to answer it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u10	On this motion of rejection, I am seized by the La France group, which has not submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u11	I understand that you are campaigning for rotation, but I do not see it, at least, in your ideas. You are talking about counter-PLFSS, counter-committee of inquiry: I would have liked to have met you more frequently in the committee devoted to the management and consequences of the covid epidemic -19! We are experiencing an exceptional crisis; more than ever, the nation must be united; There was an unhoped-for opportunity for you to address the French who hear you, some of whom voted for you. You could have told them about the increase in ONDAM, the support for TPEs and SMEs, the salary increase in hospitals and EHPADs. You could have mentioned the covid premium for home help, the prolongation of paternity leave, the investments and debt relief to be provided to hospitals, the financing of the fifth branch. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Instead, I have unfortunately only heard a pale dissertation, mostly out of the question, which was confined to the presidential campaign speech. We were waiting for facts – the facts that we, for our part, have taken note of and that we wish to highlight to the French. We give them a true, committed, determined speech, because it is their future. More than ever, we should be a nation, united around the social values that we all share in this House. It would have been a good omen for us to be able to discuss calmly, instead of tabling this motion of rejection before which, of course, the La République en marche group will oppose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u12	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u13	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this rejection motion. The main reason for this is very simple: we think of all the forgotten of the Segur of Health. I do not know how many times we have explained that home nursing services, the SSIADs, that social children's homes, the MECSs, that many medical-social institutions were not considered in the provisions of this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u14	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u15	As a matter of principle, the Group of the European People's Party does not support the motions for rejection: the House is a place for debate, and we are here for this debate to take place. We therefore do not understand the concept of a motion for rejection before, let alone on a final reading, let alone on a PLFSS text, which we adopt every year. In order to operate, France needs a social security budget. We will therefore oppose this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u16	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u17	The IDU and independent group will vote against this motion to reject, because we also want to be able to exchange and debate during the final reading of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u18	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u19	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] It has been a number of times that I hear colleagues say that they are in principle opposed to any previous rejection motion on the grounds that they want to be able to debate. I would remind you that this motion is the only one left to us since the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, against which the Group of the European People's Party voted, deprived us of the motion to refer the matter back to committee. If you do not wish to have motions for rejection, we should not adopt these rules! I wanted to say it, because I'm getting tired of always hearing the same apology. With regard to the committee of inquiry, Mr Borowczyk, you are aware that not everyone could be part of it. Therefore, to suggest that Members of our benches are not involved is unfair. Our group has only two registered members:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u20	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u21	...they took an active part in it, only rarely went away, always for excellent reasons and after warning you. That too, I wanted to make it clear. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course, we will vote in favour of the motion for rejection before and against the text. Of course, a salary increase is still good to take: wages have been frozen for ten years. But when the interested parties claimed 300 euros, this figure did not fall from the sky; 183 euros is insufficient for our country to be competitive against Belgium or Luxembourg, which take us 40,000 of our caregivers; It's not enough to pay rent in the big cities, and for many other things. As for those excluded from Secur de la santé, they will not touch anything, which, you will agree, is even more inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u22	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u23	Here we have a new chance to try to establish a PLFSS that is truly up to this unprecedented situation and, in some respects, dramatic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u24	He is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u25	... but which already existed in part even before the crisis occurred: this is the problem. The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left consider that the fundamental trend should be reversed, which is not the case in the text that you are presenting to us. This trend had been expressed in previous social security budgets: the latter did not fail in the appeal. We still find ourselves in a logic of reducing the current, ordinary, public hospital and more generally health expenditures, even though this PLFSS allocates additional resources corresponding on the one hand to certain measures stemming from the Segur of Health, which are moreover unequal and insufficient, on the other hand to certain needs directly related to the crisis – which is happy, because you could hardly do otherwise. Because of the cuts that continue to structure this budget, we continue to oppose it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] On the other hand, I would also like to stress the situation of a number of personnel, the forgotten members of the Ségur, who have been excluded from the salary adjustments, where they should have been included. Mr.Minister, this situation is untenable: it can be even less prolonged because the same services are being met by people, some of whom are going to benefit from these adjustments and others are not, which is not justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u26	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u27	You know this since the first reading: the Republican Group does not approve of this PLFSS. After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, in a ping-pong game, as is often the case between the Assembly and the Senate, your majority rejected the amendments made by senators as a whole. Therefore, our position on this text has not changed, as Jean-Carles Grelier will recall earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, we do not agree with the arguments put forward in support of this motion for prior rejection. They are contrary to our overall proposals, which we want to be constructive; For example, we do not accept the absence of a long-term strategy for social finance, which will be in real danger in the years to come. Also, we will abstain; We will not vote for or against the motion to reject, since we are also opposed to it and to the PLFSS for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u28	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u29	Mr Quatennens, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about rejecting: we are talking about building. This PLFSS contains many advances in the salaries of staff working in hospitals and EHPADs, paternity leave, birth homes, hospital hotels, financing of the fifth branch, and the increase in the remuneration of home helpers. That is why the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats Group will not vote in favour of this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u30	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u31	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 24 Against 60
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u32	In the general debate, Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u33	This PLFSS is an extraordinary text in many ways: first and foremost because we have never experienced a health crisis of such magnitude; Secondly, because the consequences of this crisis will have a lasting impact on our social accounts – as this text itself shows –; Finally, because after a near return to balance in 2017, the social security account deficit will reach €49 billion in 2020 and €36 billion in 2021. Such deterioration is likely to have a long-term impact on the financial situation of our health care system, the quality of care provided to the French and the working conditions of our caregivers. In this PLFSS, the Government makes the choice to make social security bear the cost of the health crisis, assuming to use social accounts to finance economic recovery measures. But the billions of euros dedicated to recovery are all social contributions that cannot be used for the social protection of our citizens. Once again, the Government refuses to compensate social security for exemptions from State contributions, as it had already done in 2018 and 2019. This led him to have the measures taken as a result of the yellow vest movement financed by the social accounts. This same logic should now lead, with a long-term social security debt, to compensate the euro for any exemption from State contributions. While it is true that the ONDAM in this PLFSS has been the most important since the creation of the social security financing laws, it is important to remember that its increase is intended exclusively for the response to the current health crisis and the health security agreements. These are short-term measures, which were necessary. Of which act. But don't tell us that this is the most ambitious ONDAM of all time, because this is not the case! The wage increases we voted for health care workers are an important step forward, as they reflect a necessary catch-up. Nevertheless, several professionals have been forgotten from the Segur agreements. The MECS and SSIAD employees deserve to have their wages upgraded as were those of the EHPAD employees. The Government has decided, within the framework of this PLFSS, to create the fifth branch of social security, dedicated to the care of the loss of autonomy and dependence. However, no new funding is planned to address this new risk. This fifth branch is therefore an empty shell, which allows the Government to make communication but which will not change the daily lives of dependent elderly persons or persons with disabilities. This text also contains measures that are of deep concern to us: the so-called regulatory measures, i.e. budget cuts, set out in Annex 7. It seems scandalous to us that the Government is submitting a text that deprives hospitals of 805 million euros in 2021, as we are going through a period of global pandemic that is particularly difficult for our hospitals. We are also against the introduction of a package of 18 euros for emergencies in the midst of a health crisis. In many territories, there are no more doctors' guards at night and emergencies are the only way, for many French people, to be treated by a doctor. The introduction of the package will lead many families to give up care. In addition, this text seems to us to be very poor in the area of mental health. We know that both confinements have had negative consequences for psychology and psychiatry. However, the PLFSS does not provide for any enhanced support in this regard. In addition, we consider this text to be very incomplete with regard to our country's vaccination strategy. Of course, 1.5 billion euros have been budgeted for vaccination, but this amount is largely insufficient. The vaccination strategy decided by the Government will have a direct impact on the social security budget. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We therefore believe that it is necessary for an amending PLFSS to be presented in the spring of 2021 to take account of the development of the health crisis in social accounts. Despite some isolated measures that we support, such as paternity leave, we will vote against this PLFSS. Indeed, it does not provide a lasting solution to the hospital crisis, it is very incomplete in its response to the health crisis, forgetting entire parts of our care system, and it risks increasing the inequalities in access to the care of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u34	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u35	This afternoon, our Assembly is to take a final decision on the social security budget for the year 2021. Our debates have been intense, sometimes passionate, especially since the stakes have never been greater. But it is the beauty of our representative democracy to allow this annual debate and the confrontation of the visions of what our social protection should be. At first reading, I stressed the need to set a new course to regain the spirit of the founders of social security in 1945 and happy days. Indeed, the challenges ahead are unprecedented. For almost a year now, our country has been living at the pace of the covid-19 epidemic. It must be stressed that our social security has played its full role as a shock absorber of the crisis for our citizens. She has demonstrated her plasticity and responsiveness in adapting to these new challenges. At the same time, of course, this situation has an important impact on the balance of our social accounts. The ONDAM for 2020 reaches unprecedented amounts, while deficits are undermining the catch-up path that has begun in recent years. I am therefore pleased that we can implement the strong measures of this PLFSS, aimed both at providing more protection to our citizens and at sustaining our social security system. The Social Debt and Autonomy Act had been a first step in this direction, relieving the cash flow of the ACOSS – the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies –, which was severely weakened by the exceptional expenses associated with the epidemic. This PLFSS goes further in favour of caregivers and the hospital. It will allow, and already allows, an unprecedented revalorisation of the remunerations of staff, whether caregivers or not, of our hospital system as a whole, both public and private. It is a historic and concrete measure, as of today. In order to breathe new life into our public hospital, it also makes possible the recovery of one third of the debt accumulated for too long, which will allow innovation and investment in structures. This is also an essential measure allowed by this PLFSS. The new resources committed to the hospital are up to the crisis, with an additional EUR 12 billion for ONDAM in 2020. Such means were essential, in particular in order to take account of the second confinement. Beyond vaccines, however, there is still a need to take into account the particular issue of treatments, on which our group has already warned. Together with my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs, I also alerted again about the situation of wholesalers-partitioners. We reach the limits of the current regulatory model and some players find themselves in great difficulty. I know the Government's attention in this regard. A lasting solution is imperative this year. In general, we would have appreciated more concrete commitments to the drug chain. There is an urgent need to better address the challenges of attractiveness and to provide predictability to the whole sector through multi-annual programming. Without this, consideration of possible relocations will remain a dead letter. I welcome the creation of a fifth branch, five years after the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing. It must be implemented very quickly in the draft law on the old age, on which it is no longer possible to retreat. The home help sector has been the subject of passionate debates in recent weeks. It was legitimate, as for years it has been the poor parent of autonomy. I would also like to commend the involvement of the Government and Deputy Minister Brigitte Bourguignon in this regard. As early as April 2021, 150 million new euros will be passed on to the attractiveness of the trades. From 2020 onwards, EUR 200 million will be on the table. In our discussions, I stressed the importance of revising collective agreements and the need to act on the rate of the personal autonomy allowance, the APA, which would finally allow home support structures to raise wages. This project will be the work of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy, the CNSA, which we have placed at the head of the new autonomous branch. In consultation with the departments, it will determine the conditions for the equitable allocation of these new appropriations. The PLFSS thus creates the conditions for better coverage of the fifth risk, that of loss of autonomy. Our group welcomes this historical inflection, which renews the approach of the founders of social security after the war, while fully enrolling in it. [[Applause on the banks of the Agir ens group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The crisis of the covid-19 obliges us to reinvent ourselves to make live the beautiful idea of social security. Our group will therefore fully support this bill to finance social security, which is starting a decisive turning point in addressing today's health and social issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u36	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u37	Today we are entering the final stage of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. Last Thursday, senators decided to reject the text without debate, which leads us to conclude on a version identical to that adopted by the National Assembly on a new reading. Thus, disagreements remain between the Senate, the Government and the majority. Yet, for the first time since the beginning of this legislature, this PLFSS includes a significant increase in ONDAM for 2021. This was a constant demand from our independent IDU group. So let us make sure, in a constructive approach, that we do not lock ourselves in a vision too manichean when we decide on our final vote. We cannot, as a matter of responsibility, oppose certain measures of the PLFSS dictated by the health and economic crisis, such as the significant corrections to the forecasts for 2020 and the financial trajectory for the next four years. Unfortunately, the only major development between the original text and the one examined today is the aggravated social security deficit projected for 2021. The initial forecast was reduced by €7.8 billion to €35.7 billion in 2021, due to the contraction of the wage bill in the private sector. We therefore expect the Government to ensure that the prospect of vaccine development is accompanied by a clear, coordinated and effective organization of vaccine deployment throughout the country. The speed of economic recovery is at stake. We also welcome other measures independent of the health crisis, such as the extension of paternity leave, the introduction of measures to encourage the attractiveness of home help occupations or the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child. In addition, some of the Senate's contributions have been retained, including the principle of a conference of self-government funders to make recommendations on the financing of new measures. This is also the case with several measures against social fraud. The upgrading of the careers of hospital staff is also one of the points of agreement. However, as we pointed out during the debates, this measure causes serious misunderstandings among agents who, being attached to the medical and social service of a health institution, do not benefit from it. They are already called the forgotten of Segur, and the consequences in terms of the attractiveness of their trades are already felt in our territories. We also regret that the Government has removed many of our fellow senators' contributions to the original text, including other measures also proposed by the IDU Group on fraud, the revision by 2020 of the State compensation for the National Public Health Agency, ANSP, or the refusal of the social debt amortization fund, CADES, to finance one third of hospital debt. Despite the progress I have welcomed, this PLFSS does not sufficiently reflect the structural reforms that social security needs for fairer funding of the system and for more effective protection of our compatriots at the different stages of their lives. We will begin this evening's consideration of a bill whose stated objective is to translate the non-budgetary provisions of the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, but which will not provide clear information on the Government's operational prospects or their implications for health insurance expenditure. In this regard, the PLFSS leaves open the debate on how to reduce health inequalities between our territories. Overall mortality in the Hauts-de-France region is 20% higher than in Hexagone. However, this region is only fifth in the regions with the Regional Assistance Fund. The establishment of an ORDAM – the regional objective of health insurance expenditure – is a long-standing demand of our political party. This PLFSS, like the previous ones, does not manage to better allocate health resources and spending, as close as possible to the territories and their realities. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote mainly against this text, as it had done in previous readings. In the absence of a more pronounced orientation of this text, I shall abstain in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u38	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u39	Today we are completing the fiscal year of social security for the year 2021 after intense and intense debates, and in a new context. As the Senate has rejected the text adopted by our House on re-reading without considering it, the MoDem and Allied Democrats will vote in favour of the version before us today. We would like once again to welcome the considerable financial commitment made both for the year to come and for the year to come. The ONDAM for 2020, which was already increased by EUR 10.1 billion in the original text, was increased by an additional EUR 3.2 billion during shuttles to take account of the additional costs associated with the crisis and to accelerate the upgrading of healthcare workers. It is worth recalling that, as of the end of this year, they will receive an additional 183 net euros per month in public and private non-profit institutions, and 160 net euros in private profit institutions. We continue to believe that this is a historic measure and we also welcome the fact that this text has made it possible to make progress on the question of the remuneration of home helpers. Valuing this activity is a necessary prerequisite for the reform of old age and autonomy, since it will have to make home maintenance a central pillar. In addition, we will closely monitor the progress of the negotiations between the State, the social partners and the departments, so that home help professionals can quickly see the concrete effects of the annual allocation of EUR 200 million. While the amounts mentioned since the beginning of this fiscal year are impressive in terms of their magnitude, particularly as regards the deficits in the social accounts, it could not be otherwise: they are up to the health, social and human challenges. This text also responds to the economic urgency, since more than €8 billion is spent on financing the social exemption schemes put in place to help companies closed administratively or particularly affected by successive containment measures. These colossal figures will have a real impact on our health care system. With regard to the recovery of one third of hospital debt to the tune of EUR 13 billion, this measure will have to enable our hospitals to regain the means to invest again and to restore their financial situation. Its implementation should be carried out in the most fair and equitable manner, taking into account the great disparity in territorial realities. While our group supports the various expenditure initiatives proposed by the Government, it has reiterated throughout our discussions the urgent need to make progress on the monitoring and transparency of the allocation of these resources to the territories. The use of public funds, particularly social security funds, must be able to be monitored and analysed in a more legible way. We therefore expect much from the work of the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance – HCAAM – on the redesign of the indicator of ONDAM. As we prepare to vote for a historic budget, which devotes a substantial increase in social security expenditure, it is more necessary than ever for us to have a clear, clear and precise vision of how these funds are deployed in the territory, in particular through the various actions of the regional health agencies, the RHAs. Our group will pay particular attention to the submission of the report which has been asked to know the status of the process of labelling the new community hospitals, on which there is much hope in the territories (Movements of approval from the banks of the Dem Group). Apart from its purely financial provisions, this text has allowed for many societal advances – I am thinking in particular of the extension of paternity leave or the payment of the birth premium before birth, which we have been defending since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u40	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u41	We also welcome measures to strengthen women's rights, such as the introduction of a third-party fee for abortion-related costs, experimentation to enable midwives to practice instrumental abortions or the mission of general interest against violence against women. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, it should be recalled that this social security budget for 2021 is quite exceptional, as evidenced by the substantial developments which have been reflected in the various readings of the text by the two Assemblies. The answers it provides seem to us to be commensurate with the challenges facing our country. For all these reasons, the MoDem Group and related Democrats will vote with confidence and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u42	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u43	With the health crisis, I naively thought that we were done with the world before. Unfortunately, it is not: you are not up to it. After 2.2 million cases of covid and more than 52,000 deaths in France, I thought that the Government was going to take care of the health and living conditions of the French and would therefore present a combat budget, but it must be noted that it remains in a form of routine. Of course, you do not fail to gargle billions announced for this and that, but these amounts correspond to very limited measures in time, and the Minister of Finance is already announcing years of austerity to repay the sums spent as a result of the crisis – an austerity that has already destroyed the public hospital and continues to deteriorate all the public services, because the accountants who run our country view our common goods as sources of expenditure, not as an investment to improve the lives of the French. Your philosophy does not change: you are increasingly tending towards the private sector and abandoning the public while staff are the heroes of this crisis. You delegate government missions to the private sector, which results in the closure of services, the reduction in the number of beds and understaffed personnel, all of which undermine the quality of care. In addition, you still refuse to review the geographical coefficient. Thus, while the Réunion CHU has recorded a loss of more than 20 million euros in recent months, the State has remained absent, merely allocating to the region an envelope of 6 million euros. In Mayotte, the situation was even more difficult, and medical evacuations had to be made to Reunion, with the risks involved. However, I give you notice of the prolongation of paternity leave, the perpetration of birth homes or the financing of a fifth branch devoted to dependency – a measure which, for the moment, remains an empty shell. You have no long-term vision and, from this point of view, the differences between the Assembly and the Senate are so deep that the Joint Joint Committee has ended in failure. I will give two examples. Your so-called modernisation of the health system causes its deterioration, with the development of hospital hotels, paying emergencies, the removal of the moderator ticket and its replacement by a package paid for by all. As for the old age branch, it is always the uncertainty as to the retirement age and the number of quarters needed to benefit from a full rate. Older people and people with disabilities remain the biggest forgotten of your policy. In addition to being isolated, our gramouns no longer have the financial means to live with dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It should not be forgotten that in terms of purchasing power, an overseas euro does not amount to a euro in Hexagon. In addition, low incomes and the cost of life destroy family ties. How to improve work, reception and stay in EHPADs? What are you doing to support thousands of home helpers? What are you doing to help children who give up everything to look after their elderly parents? What are you doing to respond to the lack of specialists in the territories, be it dentists, pneumonologists or cardiologists, and I'm passing it? On the poverty front, the Observatoire des Inequalités tells us that in 2018 there were 5.3 million people below the poverty line. What will happen at the end of 2020? By the end of August 2020, the number of beneficiary households with active solidarity income alone, the RSA, had already increased by 10% compared to the beginning of the year, which represents an additional 400,000 people if one counts the beneficiaries. The Catholic Relief confirms the significant increase in requests for assistance and requests from new people and audiences. It is not the EUR 100 increase in the school start-up allowance or the one-time support paid to the beneficiaries of the RSA that will give long-term prospects. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Instead of being on the side of the poorest, you have preferred to grant 10 billion euros of tax cuts to large companies. Today, 22 per cent of young people between the ages of 18 and 29 are poor, nearly 2 million households receive RSA, and 4 million people are poorly housed. All of this shows how bad your policy is and national solidarity is far from up to the level, which is why we are campaigning that there should no longer be a single income below the poverty line in France. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As you will understand, we will vote against your social security funding bill, not for pleasure, but because it is not good. The health and well-being of French people must not cost the savings you want to make, and especially not turn into a business to increase the profits of your friends in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u44	On the whole of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and La France insubmission of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u45	The social security budget for 2021 could have been an opportunity for a major political shift in the context of an unprecedented health crisis. It was an opportunity to break with the neoliberal and austere policies of the last thirty years, which damaged the public hospital and the nursing staff. It was an opportunity to display a great ambition for the public hospital service. It was an opportunity to invent new solidarity for those who are experiencing the economic crisis. Unfortunately, in fact, it is the budget for missed opportunities. Overtaken by the circumstances, unable to anticipate the second wave, the Government was content to fight in a hurry to limit the health and social damage of the covid -19 pandemic. As proof of this improvisation, the budget estimates were revised three times during the discussion of this text in both Houses of Parliament. Between your ads and the reality experienced on the ground by healthcare staff, the gap has never been greater. You promise revalorisations for all hospital workers in the framework of the Secur de la santé, but they are as insufficient as they are partial. According to the French Hospital Federation (FHF), 55,000 hospital workers – mainly medical-social and social workers – are excluded from wage increases. You are also announcing 15,000 recruitments for the public hospital, but when you look at it more closely, it is half of the recruitments made on vacant posts and half of the actual job creations. When's a big training and hiring plan? It would be necessary now to carry out an additional 40,000 hires to cover the needs in the services and then to programme a massive hiring plan... The same can be said of hospital beds. You promise the creation of 4000 beds on demand, but you have closed 7600 since the beginning of the quinquennium, and the hospital has lost 100,000 beds in thirty years. The worst thing is that hospital bed removals continue in hospitals during the health crisis. As a survey of the information site Bastamag reveals, 200 beds have just been abolished in Caen, 80 beds in the psychiatric hospital of Rouuvray, 75 beds in the hospital center Le Vinatier in Lyon. Caregivers are now concerned that the closures of services decided to free up time and beds during the epidemic may be permanent. That's the reality of the field, Minister! Finally, you announce that 7,000 caregivers have been trained in resuscitation since the beginning of the crisis, but behind this figure are the express trainings of a few days, superficial and insufficient. According to the professionals, resuscitation techniques require at least two to three months of training for the personnel concerned to be operational and one year for them to be fully autonomous. You are working with the figures to paint a flattering picture of your action in the face of the health crisis, which continues to fuel the mistrust of our fellow citizens. In fact, the fight against the epidemic took place at the cost of massive deprogramming of care in hospitals, particularly in the treatment of cancer or cardiovascular diseases. This budget does not prepare for the future, while the health crisis will have lasting effects. Postponements of care will result in a deterioration of the health of all our citizens. The psychological impact of the two confinements on the population is already energizing psychological and psychiatric monitoring services. The means to be implemented in the event of a third wave should now be foreseen, and training and personnel needs in each territory should be planned. The economic crisis is exploding poverty and RSA demands, as well as food aid. Drug policy suffers from a lack of public strategy while shortages are increasing. The issue of loss of autonomy is, for its part, underestimated, as shown by this poorly funded "autonomy" branch, which increasingly resembles a display measure. Social security would only be able to meet all these challenges with the necessary financial resources. However, you continue to drain its revenues through the sustainability of multiple contribution exemptions and carry the burden of co-divided debt to the CADES without initiating any reflection on the expansion of social protection funding. You prefer to launch a working group to find solutions to restore social accounts without touching revenue. It is therefore to be expected that there will be further dark cuts in public spending. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u46	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u47	The draft law on the financing of social security is exceptional. It offers a vision and a course. Our vision is the solidarity and protection of our citizens in the face of a virus that has already killed more than 50,000 people in our country. Our course is to be at the same time resolutely forward-looking, and this text is. It consolidates and modernizes our social protection model, implements the commitments of the Ségur de la santé and invests heavily in our health care system. The ONDAM, which was already increased by EUR 10 billion in the original text, was increased in our work by EUR 3.2 billion for 2020 and by EUR 800 million for 2021 in order to take account of the additional costs associated with the crisis and to raise the salaries of caregivers. The "whatever it costs" was not a simple formula. The Segur of Health is realized. Caregivers who asked for means were heard. The PLFSS thus notes the increase in the salaries of health-care staff and EHPADs: 183 euros net more each month for non-medical staff in the public and private non-profit sector; 160 euros in the lucrative private sector; 35 euros net additional monthly for carers. EUR 13 billion is spent on the recovery of one third of hospital debt to enable them to regain financial margins on a daily basis. 6 billion are invested in health and medical-social institutions, as well as in digital technology with the creation of a new cross-cutting fund for health modernization and investment – IMFS. The trades of home help, so essential, are not forgotten. The PLFSS strengthens its attractiveness, notably through a salary increase thanks to a financial contribution of 200 million paid each year by the CNSA, from 2021, to the departments that will commit themselves to the planned scheme. The goal is that no more salaries are below SMIC. This PLFSS materializes for the first time the fifth branch of social security, dedicated to autonomy. Much expected, this reform initiates a change in the design of the policy of autonomy. We structure this branch by determining its scope with its own revenue, for 31 billion euros, and by assigning new missions to the CNSA. We thus set the organizational framework for the preparation of the future "Great Age and Autonomy" law. Thanks to this text, we are also taking a further step in our fight for women's rights and for equality between women and men. We have opted for a doubling of paternity leave from fourteen to twenty-eight days, including seven mandatory days, so that it is accessible to all, especially employees whose contracts are precarious. This major social advance is a response to a strong aspiration of parents. We create a mission of general interest to combat violence against women. We guarantee the full-paying third party for all acts related to an IVG and we strengthen their confidentiality. We deploy the homes of birth, a personalized accompaniment for pregnant women, who have already proven their worth in the territories where they are experienced. We pay the birth premium no longer two months after birth but in the seventh month of pregnancy. With an amount of about 950 euros, it allows the most modest families to receive their child under more secure conditions. This PLFSS also takes specific measures to support companies and workers affected by the health crisis. Among the main advances allowed by the LaREM Group and the Government during the discussion of the text in the National Assembly and the Senate, I will mention the following three measures: the creation of a supplementary exemption scheme for companies in the tourism, hospitality, catering, sport, culture and events sectors, particularly affected by the crisis; the replacement of the scheme introduced during the curfew by an exceptional scheme to exempt social contributions in the context of the reconfinition; the integration of professional sports clubs with fewer than 250 employees and artists-authors within the scope of the social contribution exemption scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text reflects what social security can do in response to the crisis to modernise and consolidate our model.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u48	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u49	At the time of the presentation of the PLFSS for 2021, you made a promise to us, Minister, that the text presented should be historic or, at least, according to your own language elements, "exceptional."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u50	He is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u51	However, while the short-term measures linked to the health crisis and its aftermath are indeed exceptional in scale, not all sectors of health will benefit equally – I am thinking in particular of city medicine or the drug industry. This social security budget also leaves much uncertainty for 2021 and subsequent years. The fiscal trajectory of health insurance has been completely upset, so there is a very heavy mortgage on the future of financing our health care system. The "whatever it costs" is indeed a single shot rifle, which will dry up social finances for a long time and which allows for a budgetary shortage for social accounts as well as for health, which will undoubtedly be the hallmark of future budgets. Why have we not taken advantage of the broad consultation of the Ségur de la santé to open the debate on the sustainable financing of our social protection system, even though the share of tax in its financing continues to rise, even though revenues are not already covering expenditure, even though the deficit in social accounts cannot be allowed to grow without putting the whole system at real risk for the years to come and even though you are forced to make unmatched use of private funding to operate a system that we can see has been achieved to the maximum of what it can produce?From this point of view, your PLFSS leaves us with a bitter taste for a missed opportunity. Among the reforms that you have described as "exceptional", there is the creation of a fifth branch on autonomy and dependence. I do not dispute the principle, but I am obliged to note that even though the main thrusts of an ambitious policy in this area are referred to a text still to be built, it is clear from our discussions that the financing of this new branch has become an equation with so many unknowns that the Fields Medal could be promised to whom it will be able to solve it. This is, no doubt, another missed opportunity. The honourable senators wanted – with, I admit, a bit of provocative spirit – to put back on the table the future of our retirement system, on which the Pension Orientation Board is coming again to sound the alarm. I remember the cry of your majority when, during the debates, we spoke of the urgency that there would be to resume the course of this reform. I am pleased to note that Minister Bruno Le Maire has not said anything else in recent days. I fear that very quickly this will also appear as a missed opportunity. On the other hand, I can only point out that there are no, yet inexpensive, answers to the right questions posed by pharmaceutical dispatchers, professional firefighters or young farmers. At the time of "whatever it costs," it is an incomprehensible stubbornness and a missed new opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u53	Finally, Minister, you have rightly expressed concern about the forthcoming arrival of a third health wave related to the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 on the mental health of the French. This third wave is already well felt, and many professionals, but also parliamentarians, have drawn your attention to this serious issue. You have called on the French to show more attention and compassion to each other, but you cannot be content with that. A better management of psychiatric diseases requires additional resources, which is certainly not yet needed. This PLFSS could have been a useful and necessary first step in this direction. Unfortunately, the Ségur de la santé only provides for a road map for mental health in order to raise awareness: not an additional euro is devoted to it. In the PLFSS submitted today to our vote, there will also be no increased resources granted to an area that reflects the suffering of millions of French people and their families. This time it is more than a missed opportunity: it is a moral and political mistake, a health error with heavy consequences, which will most often be irreparable. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So this PLFSS comes to the end of the parliamentary shuttle without any other vision than the inexhaustible annuality of the budget. This is a series of missed opportunities for debate and reflection. You will therefore understand that Members of the Republican Group can only approve this budget, which will in any event only be one more cautère on the wooden leg of our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u54	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u55	This PLFSS is historic and extraordinary, in the literal sense of the term, for reasons unfortunately more related to the circumstances than to the advances it contains. It is extraordinary because of the magnitude of the deficits in our social accounts, which have grown as we move forward in our debates. For 2020, the estimate has thus increased from 44.4 billion in the initial project to 49 billion euros, and deficits for the coming years follow the same path. More than the figures themselves, it is uncertainty that undermines confidence in the future. This budget is especially extraordinary because of the impossibility of considering a close exit from the crisis, irretrievably linked to our ability to manage and stem the covid -19 epidemic. This uncertainty has weighed on our debates. On two occasions, the Government was forced to raise ONDAM for 2020 during our work: for the first time, to the tune of 2.4 billion euros, to enable it to cope with the additional costs associated with the second wave and to finance the second instalment of salary increases for carers; a second time, amounting to EUR 800 million, to cover, inter alia, expenses related to PCR and antigenic tests. The health crisis has shed a raw light on the failures of our health system. And I mean here that the current majority is not entirely responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u56	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u57	This PLFSS should have been an opportunity to learn from it by providing the means to combat the epidemic, but also to prepare and initiate the long-awaited reforms. However, these expectations are disappointed. I would like to take this as evidence of the budgetary measures taken by the Ségur de la santé, which we have welcomed. They were necessary, but only made corrections. In addition, they continue to exclude certain professions from the pay revalorisation, particularly in the medical-social and disability sectors. In addition, the PLFSS does not anticipate the 2.4 per cent increase in the hospital ONDAM that the Government committed in 2019 to cover the increase in hospital fixed charges. It would require an additional EUR 11 billion, whereas the text only provides for EUR 8.5 billion. In this context, we continue to question the so-called "regulation" effort imposed on the health system, set out in the text at EUR 4 billion. Are we really done with the accounting logic of the past?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u58	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u59	That is the underlying question. Expectations are also disappointed in the field of support for autonomy. We continue to believe that there is a problem with the method. By creating the autonomous branch, the plough was put before the oxen – hence the incomprehensions that made our debates clear: it would have been necessary to start by adopting a comprehensive policy in favour of old age and disability, and to define precisely the risk of dependence covered by the branch. I will not talk about the funding of this one: we must wait for the recommendations of the CNSA board. Some progress has been made in the text, such as the extension of paternity leave or the salary adjustment of home helpers – with, however, a major flat in the area of home nursing services. We also welcome the measures taken by the Government to extend the scheme of support for the payment of contributions by companies affected by the crisis. However, in a context of uncertainty and a massive crisis in the economy and in the health system, in the face of the growing needs of people in situations of dependency, the disarray and exhaustion of caregivers, and the mental distress of many of our fellow citizens, the answers provided by this draft budget do not match the challenges. Unsurprisingly, Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will not support it. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] Whatever the circumstances, a budget cannot capture such high social deficits without proposing financing prospects for social debt – because it will have to be borne, otherwise the future of our social protection system will be threatened, nothing less. Young generations already feel that they have been sacrificed in the crisis: do not let them carry this extra burden. That is why, I repeat, a reflection must be initiated without delay, and solutions must be outlined. I will simply mention one, supported by my group: the contribution of the highest incomes and wealth. Indeed, it is only by taking the path of redistribution and justice, conditions of solidarity, that we will emerge from the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u60	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u61	I put to the vote the whole of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u62	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 107 Number of votes cast 106 Absolute majority 54 For adoption 67 Against 39
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u63	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u64	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u65	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on strengthening the inclusion in employment through economic activity and experimenting with "long-term zero-unemployed territories" (No 3485).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u66	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u67	It is not without a certain emotion that I intervene for the last time in a legislative process that was dense and rich. At first reading, I expressed the wish for a unanimous adoption of this ambitious text. Particular attention was paid to the participation and listening of all parliamentary groups. I would also like to acknowledge and thank Minister Elizabeth Borne, Deputy Minister Brigitte Klinkert and their offices. On October 13, the Senate adopted the text by a very large majority. On 28 October, the Joint Joint Committee adopted a joint text, which was adopted by the Senate on 4 November. It is now up to the National Assembly to confirm its final adoption. The agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee is to be welcomed – especially since, without opposing in front of the proposed arrangements, our two assemblies had adopted different draftings at first reading. The Joint Joint Committee's proposal is the result of intense work with my Senate counterpart to find the best balance. We were keen to work for rapid adoption, for the benefit of all those who looked forward to the text. The text proposed to you confirms the essential measures adopted by the Assembly at first reading: in addition to seven articles adopted in accordance with the Senate, many amended provisions have not been objected to in principle, whether it concerns the easing of the framework of integration through economic activity or the amplification of the experiment "zero-unemployed territories of long duration". Some of the senators' additions were welcome, whether to allow the cumulation of an integration contract with a part-time contract, to broaden the spectrum of actors who could prescribe periods of placement in a work environment, or to experiment with a forum for dialogue specific to employees in employment – a forum on which the Assembly had requested a report from the Government. Nevertheless, some disagreements remained, which the Joint Joint Committee had overcome. While the Assembly wanted to better articulate the use of fixed-term integration contracts – CDDI – for seniors, with the possibility of extending fixed-term contracts – CDD – beyond 57 years, the Senate wished to maintain the free choice of integration structures. We agreed with his position in the interest of the text, hoping that this freedom would not impede, in the medium term, the use of the CDDI for the elderly, which in our view is a good tool for securing employment. I am thinking of all those who will benefit from an end of career softened until their retirement thanks to this secure system. The Senate did not want to require departments to finance the experiment "long-term unemployed zero-territories"; However, because of the competence of the departments in the matter of integration, the Assembly did. In the interests of balance, the Joint Joint Committee has chosen a compromise solution: the presidents of departmental councils will have the right to oppose experimentation, but once they have accepted the principle, they will have to participate in it up to an amount fixed by decree, within the limit of the ceiling introduced by the Joint Committee. This is indeed a ceiling, not a floor, which makes it possible to conduct a very open negotiation with the departmental councils. A re-visit clause, or "valve", has also been introduced in the Joint Joint Committee, in accordance with the commitment made by Minister Elizabeth Borne at first reading – this commitment, defended by parliamentarians, is therefore being fulfilled, and we can welcome it. In fact, beyond the fifty new territories participating in the experiment, no territory will be left at the door. A territory may also be granted an authorization to conduct the experiment by decree, by way of derogation, if its project is mature. It is on this basis, made of reasonable and reciprocal concessions, that we propose to you to pronounce. I would like to salute my colleague in the Senate, Frédérique Puissat: Our always frank and constructive dialogue has made this a success. I would also like to thank the parliamentarians who have supported the bill from the very beginning, with the conviction that there is still much to be done about employment. I do not forget those who, during the previous parliamentary term, voted for the first experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories" – I will mention, of course, the rapporteur of the first law of territorial experimentation aimed at eliminating long-term unemployment, Laurent Grandguillaume, with whom we have maintained constant dialogue and respectful mutual listening. I also have a special thought for all those who are mobilizing, on the ground, to help men and women who are unemployed. They feel supported when we act decisively to facilitate their work and initiatives. We trust them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u68	I would then like to express the hope that, at the end of the next parliamentary term, at the end of this second experiment, "long-term zero-unemployed territories", it will no longer be one but will indeed be perpetuated everywhere in the territories that wish to do so, which will thus become territories of full voluntary employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, of course, I would like to dedicate this legislative work not quite like the others to all those who give the best of themselves in an integration path or in an enterprise for employment purposes. If we adopt the text of the Joint Joint Committee today, they will know that national representation, too often disunited, can come together when their destiny is at stake. They'll know they can count on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u69	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u70	During the difficult period we are going through, we need to increase our attention for the most vulnerable and farthest from employment. For them, national solidarity must continue to be fully deployed. I am thinking of young people, long-term job seekers, fragile people, but also extras, seasonal workers or those who are employed in short contracts. Élisabeth Borne announced, last Thursday, new protection measures to meet the crisis, both for young people and for precarious workers. Each situation must find and find a suitable solution. In this new context, the two mechanisms reinforced by this bill are more useful than ever. Throughout the parliamentary procedure, constructive work has been carried out by the deputies and senators of all groups; Everyone was able to bring their stone to the building. I welcome the remarkable work done by the rapporteur, Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, who was at the initiative of this bill and who has been able to change the text since the debate in committee in the House. In a public sitting, this resulted in a unanimous vote. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups whose work has led to this result, which we can be very proud of. In turn, the Joint Joint Committee has worked towards the final balance of the text, which respects both the ambition pact for the IAE – integration through economic activity – and the spirit that has animated the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories" since its creation. The two chambers were able to produce a balanced, necessary and useful text, adapted to the circumstances, especially in response to the expectations of the actors on the ground. I therefore thank the Joint Joint Committee which reached this agreement on 28 October. This text demonstrates the Government's willingness to act in favour of employment for all. This law is part of the Government's broader ambition to develop job integration solutions for more vulnerable people. In the face of the crisis, we are multiplying efforts, devices and budgets to leave no one on the side of the road. Together with Élisabeth Borne and the Government as a whole, we strongly believe that employment-supporting solutions are the key to preventing and combating insecurity and are a major pillar of the recovery plan. The Prime Minister's announcements of 24 October on measures to prevent and combat poverty have demonstrated our greatest commitment to integration. I am thinking, for example, of the creation of 30 000 additional places in the IAE for the beneficiaries of social minima. As you know, the integration of our youth is one of the Government's priorities in the face of the crisis. You have also voted, in the context of the finance bill, to prioritise an additional 35,000 places in economic activity for the benefit of young people. They are in addition to other measures for the benefit of young people, in particular the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, whose job offer platform was launched on 19 November. I am also thinking of the exemption from the transport payment for the intermediary associations, a subject dear to the MPs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and Michèle de Vaucouleurs, whose work and commitment have allowed this essential exemption to be extended in the context of the finance bill. Beyond the IAE, this key tool, we are also mobilizing other levers. In the priority neighbourhoods of city policy – QPV – for example, the Prime Minister has announced that the employment skills pathways – PEC – are 80% funded by the state and that their number is doubled. This unprecedented political will for integration through economic activity is totally complementary to this bill, which is an additional tool for inclusive recovery. This law is indeed a good law in favour of employment for all and equal opportunities. As you know, it reinforces two very beautiful tools that apply complementary methods to insert people who are furthest from it into employment. Title I of the draft law is devoted to strengthening the integration sector through economic activity. The structures of integration through economic activity will in particular see their recruitment rules simplified by the abolition of the prior approval granted by Pôle Emploi, which will allow them to hire more quickly. Title II is devoted to the extension and extension of the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories". This experiment will now be carried out in sixty territories, with fifty new ones being added to the first ten, which will be renewed. The means to support the experiment are there: it is 11 million euros that are planned for 2021 compared to the 2020 implementation forecast. In total, the State will contribute €28.61 million in 2021. I salute the work and perseverance of Laurent Grandguillaume, president of "long-term unemployed zero-territories", Michel de Virville and Patrick Valentin, vice-presidents, and Louis Gallois, president of the Territorial Experiment Fund against Long-Term Unemployment. Title III is a title for coordination and updating. For each of the three headings of this bill, the Joint Joint Committee has been able to make major progress. With regard to Title I on integration through economic activity, the text of the Joint Joint Committee maintains the CDI inclusion for older persons, which provides security for the work of these persons until their retirement. Any employee of an integration structure by economic activity of over 57 years at the time of renewal of his or her career may be offered a CDI if his or her situation does not allow him or her to return to employment in the common law sector. With regard to Title II and the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories", several decisive contributions are to be noted. First, the Joint Joint Committee restored the mandatory nature of the financing of the departments by returning to the text of the Assembly, but adding two points: the fixing by decree of the level of such participation and its ceiling even before the decree. We hear concerns about the level of expenditure borne by the departments, and that is why we will work with the Assembly of the French departments to the best possible drafting of the decree. Secondly, the Joint Joint Committee stated that the agreement of the chairman of the departmental council was required for a territory to run for trial. No experiment can be carried out against the opinion of the department. This solution preserves both the spirit of the text and the competence of the departmental councils as leaders of integration policy in the territories. It was also praised by the association Territoires Zero Long-Term Unemployed. Thirdly, an increase in the number of territories beyond the 60 territories planned for the extension and extension of the experiment "long-term unemployed zero territories" is now possible by decree in the Council of State. During the discussions in the National Assembly, we heard the concerns of the actors on the ground, which you have largely relayed by accepting a sixfold increase in the initial number of territories, an increase to sixty territories – the fifty new and the first ten, which are being extended. Then, as Élisabeth Borne had made a firm commitment to it in the Assembly and the Senate, it was important for us not to leave any territory aside if some were to be ready in addition to the sixty territories planned. The Joint Joint Committee finally managed to find a legally satisfactory solution by allowing the number of territories to be expanded beyond sixty if necessary. In Title III, we first introduced a major step towards integration through economic activity, through the establishment of a social dialogue for employees in the process of integration in the form of a three-year experiment. Finally, employees in integration will be able to take part in a genuine social dialogue within the social and economic committee – CSE – with all the interests involved in a trade union commitment in terms of recognition and emancipation for the continuation of their professional career. I welcome the remarkable work of the Members of the La République on the move, led by Mr Didier Baichère, and the commitment of Mrs Claire Pitollat, who has defended this idea from the very beginning. Finally, under Title III, I would like to pay tribute to the work of the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Fadila Khattabi, for her contribution to the topic of shared working time. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to vote on concrete tools adapted to the circumstances of the crisis in France. We will endeavour to put in place the necessary implementing legislation to allow the rapid selection of the first territories. There are already many expressions of interest, but we will look at all the applications with interest to make this second wave of experimentation a collective success in favour of employment for all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On behalf of the Government, we reiterate with Elizabeth Borne our thanks to all parliamentarians and to the rapporteurs for their work in enriching the text. In order to ensure that the revival of our economy is as inclusive as possible, I ask you for the final adoption of this bill as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u71	In the general debate, Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u72	Since the time has come for the reaffirmation and strengthening of republican principles, the preamble to the 1946 Constitution, adopted by the 1958 Constitution, proclaims that everyone has the duty to work and the right to obtain employment. Republican principles are, of course, ideals, and we proclaim that no one is unemployable. Each person has a contribution to make to the development of our society, which directly contributes to the recognition and realization of his or her dignity. But to go to the ideal, one must start from the real, as Jauress so rightly said in his speech to the youth. We have a duty to act every day to bring our republican principles into the lives of each and every one of us, first and foremost these 5.7 million of our compatriots who are now deprived of employment. By finally adopting this bill, we will in particular open a second phase of the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories". Experimentation is always useful to go from real to ideal, to give time to test, to calibrate public policies, to verify that socio-economic actors are mobilizing and acting in accordance with the objectives. But the question could legitimately arise as to whether this second phase of experimentation before sustainability was necessary and absolutely indispensable. As far as we are concerned, we were, as you know, in favour of an immediate enlargement law, particularly in the moment of social emergency that we are going through. We would have liked the Government to take the same precautions with regard to other reforms that it has undertaken, such as the removal of the ISF: that would have made it possible for you to be delighted. Taking concrete action to achieve this ideal of employability for all is also to ensure that the means will be available. However, the Assembly's consideration of the 2021 budget mission "Work and employment" highlighted the decline in State funding of the "zero long-term unemployed" territorial scheme. The Government had proposed to reduce the State's contribution to the experimental fund by 20 per cent, even though it should be increased in view of the expansion of the experiment provided for in the bill that we are about to adopt. The majority finally agreed only to maintain this funding in the same way as last year; It's not enough. This is tantamount to transferring to the departments the burden of strengthening their financial involvement, in particular in order to guarantee the quality of the territorial governance of the projects, a condition also necessary, you will agree, for the success of these arrangements. Another challenge for the proper implementation of this bill to which we are all committed: in this same budget debate, Madam rapporteur – you were our special rapporteur at the time – you justified the identical maintenance of this funding, by the fact that it would take time for the law to be promulgated and the decrees adopted. You have undertaken, Madam Minister Delegate, to exercise diligence in this matter. However, the crisis that our country is going through makes it necessary for such a diligent response to the candidate territories. We therefore ask you, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, to set up without delay, as provided for in Rule 145(2) of our Rules of Procedure, an information mission with the aim of following as closely as possible the conditions for the application of this bill. By voting for this bill, we are only half the legislative path: everything remains to be accomplished, but I believe we all share this concrete utopia, this idea that we could overcome mass unemployment. Those who visited the territories "zero long-term unemployed" were able to measure the concrete consequences: the dignity regained, the smiles that return to the faces, the bodies that rise again, the pride of being in work, through work. Because we share this ambition, we will naturally support this bill. (Applause from the SOC Group. "Ms. Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u73	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u74	In the current period when the health, economic and social crises seem to feed one another, the priority of national solidarity must focus more on the fight against poverty and insecurity. I am of course thinking of young people, people without qualifications and people who are long-term away from employment: these fragile audiences are the first to be affected and the ongoing crises are already turning a large number of people into poverty. Since the first reading of this bill, the situation has deteriorated considerably in the economic and social sphere. Therefore, we are well aware that the text we will be voting on today will be very little in the face of the magnitude of the damage. First of all, I would like to ask you once again to abandon your plan for the reform of unemployment insurance, which the Council of State has just censored two provisions: the reform of the method of calculating the benefit and the bonus-malus, even though Article 7 of this bill has certain consequences. We urge you, Madam Minister Delegate, to abandon this reform, which no longer makes any sense. Our group welcomes the approach of developing and supporting the integration structures by the IAE, especially since this sector was severely affected by the health crisis: during the first confinement, one in three structures closed and contracts for almost one in five employees were terminated. However, we have some reservations about certain derogations or transitional provisions. I am thinking mainly of the creation of bridge contracts, adopted at the initiative of the Government, or the renewal of the Seniors' CSD, the solution of early retirement seems more appropriate to us. I am also thinking of the extinction of the experiment on the logbook of job seekers, which strengthens the control of applicants, instead of relying on a real accompaniment. The continuation and extension of the experiment of the territories "zero long-term unemployed" are obviously the other major measure of the text. Our group has always supported this approach, which reflects the importance we attach to the issues of ecological transition, solidarity and employment, but also to the ability of the territories to respond to them. We are pleased to note that the Joint Joint Committee has made some progress, and I thank the rapporteur for that. The establishment of fifty new territories, with the Government having the possibility of derogating by decree from the maximum number, once the 60 territories had been reached, was a small step: we would have preferred a deflation of the number of territories and an authorization over the course of the water, but this compromise seems acceptable to us. With regard to the participation of departments in funding, the final text is clearer, but I note that the 2021 budget, specifically the "Work and Employment" mission, does not provide sufficient funds to finance the participation of the State: it would amount to EUR 14800 per job, compared with EUR 16200 in 2020. We are concerned that this will result in a greater contribution from the departments, all of whom are aware of the financial situation. Finally, we continue to regret the lack of provisions to financially support the engineering of local employment committees, while they are the driving force behind the experiment: these committees face the greatest precariousness. It is therefore essential to equip them with human resources through the mobilization of experimental funds. [[Mrs Gisèle Biémouret and Mr Alain Bruneel applaud]] Despite these few reservations, our group will vote in favour of this bill so as not to obstruct the second phase of the experiment of the "zero long-term unemployed" territories, which is very much expected. We have all had the opportunity to see the positive impact of these projects, which are deeply rooted in the territories from which they originate. More than ever we need such initiatives that target the invisible, the forgotten, those who pass under the radars of Pôle emploi and who, in many cases, do not even benefit from public aid. We must restore confidence and dignity to all those people who are far from employment, who feel abandoned on the roadside. By this proposal, we tell them that they are not unemployable, but that they are useful. In my view, this is enough to justify an even greater enlargement of this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u75	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u76	The Assembly has before it the proposal for a law on the strengthening of inclusion in employment through economic activity and on experimenting with "long-term zero-unemployed territories". The UDI-I Group welcomes the conclusion of the Joint Joint Committee meeting on 28 October. This final reading concludes the legislative path of this text, long awaited by the territories, whose strong mobilization I welcome. This vote is taking place in a context of a health crisis that upsets the labour market. The announcement of social plans and the persistence of long-term unemployment make employment one of our main concerns. The people most affected by this crisis are the most vulnerable, particularly the elderly who are particularly affected by the long-term deprivation of employment. But the crisis has also given rise to solidarity with the poorest. I saw it again last Friday in my constituency in Wasquehal, where I saw municipal agents handing out food to families in difficulty. My goal – I know that many here share – is to leave no one on the side of the road. This proposal for a law contains provisions on support and support for employment which we welcome, such as the abolition of Pôle Emploi's approval of entry into integration courses, the creation of a " CDI inclusion" for persons at least 57 years of age and the experimentation of a "bridge contract". Having managed for many years an integration project, called Inser'Croix, I believe in the integration into employment through economic activity. Being unemployed is not a fatality: no one is unemployable! No one should be placed in a situation of lasting unemployment. The State must play a role as a springboard. All initiatives in this area are valuable; This is why we are particularly in favour of the extension of the experiment of the "zero long-term unemployed" territories, which has proved its effectiveness and virtuous impact. Benefiting from a CDI makes it possible to get out of the precariousness and finally be able to project in the future. Many cities expect much from this extension of the experiment – I am thinking of Hem and Roubaix in my constituency. This experiment is innovative by its objective, its method and its funding. It has given a new impetus to the territories that benefit from it. It makes it possible to live better, to consume; It creates a link. It strengthens self-esteem, improves health status and school follow-up. That is why we are in favour of extending it over five years and increasing the number of territories that could benefit from it. This experiment may extend beyond 60 territories if it proves necessary, in accordance with your commitment, Madam Minister Delegate, not to leave any territory ready on the side of the road. However, we regret that the funding of local employment committees has not been specified in the law. These local committees identify and prepare volunteers; they play an essential role in animation. Part of their funding would have been desirable. Significant change introduced by the Joint Joint Committee, the chairman of the departmental council will have to give his consent for a territory to stand for election and for the financial contribution of the department, fixed by a decree, to be committed. The department thus retains its freedom to assess whether the experiment is consistent with its integration policy; It's a very good compromise. Finally, experimenting is evaluation. We regret that assessments are based on quantitative bases without taking into account qualitative effects for individuals and territories. I will conclude by welcoming the necessary translation of the Government's commitment to the "Work and Employment" mission of the 2021 Finance Bill. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] I have already had the opportunity to say it here, since the beginning of the project, in 2016: our group supports this approach. This second law was expected and the IDU and independent group will obviously vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u77	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u78	The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee on 28 October on the proposal for a law on the strengthening of the inclusion in employment by economic activity and on the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories". First of all, the Joint Joint Committee has made a number of decisive contributions to Title II and to experimentation. It has re-established the mandatory nature of the financing of the departments by returning to the text of the Assembly, while adding two points: the fixing by decree of the level of such participation and its ceiling. Indeed, the departments were very concerned about the level of expenditure to be allocated to the experiment. We therefore welcome the collaboration of the Assemblée des départements de France in the best possible drafting of the decree. In addition, following the work of the CMP, the agreement of the chair of the departmental council will be required for a territory to apply for experimentation. The department will therefore retain its freedom to assess whether the experiment is consistent with its integration policy and its agreement would be a condition for the application of a territory. We agree with the inclusion of this veto which will allow the department to retain its prerogatives in terms of social and professional integration within our territories. It is indeed essential for the full success of the mechanism to collaborate upstream with the departments. We therefore support the balance reached by the CMP. During the first reading of the bill, we expressed the wish, by way of amendment, that the ceiling on the number of territories eligible for testing should be raised. We are therefore of course in favour of the inclusion of the possibility of derogating from the number of territories, beyond the 60 territories envisaged, for the extension and extension of the experiment. Thus, when the maximum number of 60 territories "zero long-term unemployed" is reached, additional territories may be authorized, by way of derogation, by decree in the Council of State. This is a significant step forward – thank you, the rapporteur, for defending it – that our House wanted to step up the momentum of the second phase of experimentation. The Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, Élisabeth Borne, had made a firm commitment to this. Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for reminding you of that. This progress is therefore the result of the constructive discussions we have conducted in this House. We can rejoice in that. The Action Together Group fully shares the spirit and philosophy of this experiment and therefore looks forward to its forthcoming expansion. On the basis of the legitimate principle that no one is unemployable, the creation of an enterprise for the purpose of employment does indeed make it possible to restore social utility to its beneficiaries. With relatives, work is part of the very first circles of sociability: it is through him and through the bonds he creates that a person builds himself or even emancipates himself. As Jacques Chirac said, who would have celebrated his 88th birthday yesterday, "no civilization lasted when she accepted the social divide of the excluded." Through this mechanism, we propose a pragmatic and concerted solution for the inclusion of the most fragile citizens. While our country is shaken by a major crisis, it is our duty, as representatives of the nation, to defend this model of social experimentation, which is beneficial for national cohesion. [[The rapporteur and Michèle de Vaucouleurs applaud]] In view of the progress it allows and of the compromises reached during its consideration by the Joint Joint Committee, and once again welcoming the work of the rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u79	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u80	"Long-term unemployed zero-territories": an ideal, a dream or a slogan? If that is certainly a bit of it for you, for us it is a goal to be achieved, of which nothing should make us deviate, so much unemployment keeps and precipitates individuals into great suffering. The existence of every human being is based on the construction of a future, which requires, inter alia, stable employment: what future can be built without employment? What future for those who fail to make ends meet? What future without dignity? What future for his family? I could go on like this for a long time, but you already know very well – if that is not the case, it is surely the mark of your ignorance of the reality of the field. Believe me, those who are out of work don't want pity. They want keys to get the head out of the water and avoid social drowning. As a result of the work done in both the Assembly and the Senate, progress has been made. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in the number of territories eligible for experimentation, from ten to sixty and could even increase by decree. It should also be noted that funding of the scheme is open to all public actors, on a voluntary basis, or that it is possible to offer CDI to persons over the age of 57. But – because there is always a "but" – we believe that the device lacks a real ambition, as I had pointed out at the end of the examination of the text at first reading. It is rendered all the more inadequate by the economic and social emergency, aggravated by the epidemic of covid -19: 715000 jobs destroyed in the first half of 2020, an unemployment rate which will reach about 9.5% of the working population by the end of December, an increase in poverty, a number of people without a permanent home constantly increasing, and so on. Should we be surprised at this situation, given your tax policy in favour of the richest? For La France insoumise, the policy of happiness and well-being must not be applied in small crumbs, with parsimony! We would have preferred a generalization of the scheme, because the needs and means are there. There are many employment pools, such as ecological forklifts, the elderly or home helpers, to name but a few: tens or hundreds of thousands of jobs could be created. We defend the right to employment, making the State the employer as a last resort. What are we waiting for to implement this measure? Why don't you let the energies free up? Why don't you trust all the territories? Why do you want to restrain the spirit of initiative when this text could have gone much further? Finally, I regret that our proposal to extend the duration of the experiment to eight years overseas has not been accepted. How can we understand that my amendment, which was intended to obtain a report analysing the specificities inherent in the deployment of experimentation in the overseas territories, accepted by the House, has been deleted by the Senate and that the Joint Joint Committee has not fought to maintain this request? Again, I see a very bad signal to the ultramarines – but it seems to me to be an almost cultural reflex in you: once again, the overseas territories are almost forgotten, while they have unemployment rates three to four times higher than those of the departments of Hexagon. I do not hide my disappointment, but I will fight for at least the cities of the Port and Saint-André at Réunion – and, more broadly, all the ultramarine territories – to benefit from the experiment. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Philippe Naillet also applauds]] In conclusion, it is true that you are taking a small step, Madam rapporteur, to accompany those who are unemployed. Thank you. By their favourable vote, the elected members of the La France insoubted group encourage you to continue along this path, in the hope that their voice will be heard, that you will take account of the returns to the ground, and that you will re-adjust the experimental device. We will be very vigilant on this point. I nevertheless dream of a new governance where the future will be common, not the affair of a handful of rich protected by Macronia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u81	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u82	After a passage rich in exchanges at first reading on these benches, a constructive debate in the Senate and then an agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, the proposal for a law on the strengthening of the inclusion in employment through economic activity and the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories" is submitted to us one last time. As my colleagues pointed out at the first reading of the text, the fight against precariousness and the return to employment is a priority – more than ever in the period we are going through, which is terrible for many of our fellow citizens, who lose their jobs, as well as for those who fail to get their heads out of the water. The principle that no one is unemployable must be applied: it is a necessity. As a first step, the positive elements of the text should be revisited. The "long-term unemployed zero-territories" experiment, voted unanimously in 2016 and launched the following year in ten pilot territories, was a success. It proves that no one is permanently removed from employment if the public authorities deploy the necessary resources and manage to mobilise the actors. We are pleased that, following the discussions, an extension of the scheme to 50 new employment areas has been approved. However, despite the commitment of the Minister of Labour to extend the scheme to other territories in the near future, we would have preferred this extension to be included in the legislation. No candidate should be left at the edge of the road, especially since more than 120 of them are preparing to integrate the experiment: imagine their discouragement at the announcement of a cap on the number of territories involved in the next stage! We therefore maintain that a criterion of project maturity, rather than a maximum number, should have been retained in the text. In the same way, the question of the financing of experimentation should have been examined more carefully, in particular the financing of managerial and support posts for employees. Unfortunately, the proposal we made to that effect was rejected. As far as the rest of the text is concerned, we are still firmly opposed to the provisions that damage the legislative framework of different types of employment contracts. The famous bridge contract provided for in Article 3a, which supposedly allows a gradual transition between the integration contract and the CDI, has nothing to secure. One particular point of vigilance concerns the employment of older people, who are affected by the measure and weakened by the social climate. The proposal for a law contains many such provisions, which create new derogations from the common law, display risky contours and do not go decisively in the right direction. I would add that they are not intended to be examined in the same bill as the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories": the two questions, even if they both concern employment, are distinct. At first reading, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left had hesitated between a favourable vote and an abstention. The majority of its members had abstained. However, a favourable vote had been chosen by some of my colleagues to express their strong support for the part of the text on the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories", because it is an essential experiment, which has already borne fruit in some territories and enabled some of our fellow citizens, who were losing hope, to return to employment. It is therefore essential that the system be maintained. However, this bill has become a legislative car, in which other measures have been taken, which, on the other hand, damage labour law. We regret the provisions establishing a derogation from the ordinary law contained in Article 3a of the text, for example, or the measures provided for in Article 9. These kinds of provisions only undermine and isolate even the most fragile of us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] Like you, we want to move towards a generalization of the project "long-term unemployed zero territories". The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has the same problem as at first reading: we remain divided about the vote. The majority of my colleagues have chosen to take the path of abstention. For some others, however, the vote in favour remains valid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u83	And you, how are you going to vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u84	I'm just a spokesperson!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u85	Mr Didier Baichère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u86	"Everyone has the duty to work and the right to get a job": this is what we can read in the preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946. The right to employment is a fundamental right. It is up to the legislator to ensure its effectiveness for our citizens. In the Yvelines department, where I was elected, there are 100,000 jobseekers, of whom 9,000 are under 25 years of age and 20,000 are over 50 years of age. Half of them have been registered at the Employment Centre for more than a year. Since 1 January 2020, the number of AHR beneficiaries has increased by 15%, to around 25,000. Today in France, more than 300,000 people are homeless. These figures show in part the face of poverty and precariousness, each of which knows how difficult it is to recover from it and the social cost it entails. Faced with this reality, the Government and the majority have been working for many months to support the demand for solidarity and social justice. The recovery plan demonstrates this: our mobilization is complete to support the economy, employment and the most vulnerable families in a sustainable way. The budget for 2021 of the Labour and Employment Mission amounts to more than €13 billion, of which more than €2.4 billion will be spent on supporting the employment of people furthest from the labour market. Faced with the urgency, this effort represents an increase of 9.4% in the envelope, excluding the recovery plan – the latter will spend an additional EUR 12 billion on social cohesion and employment. By voting in favour of this bill, adopted unanimously at first reading – you have been many to recall – and on which we have cooperated with our fellow senators to achieve a concluding CMP, we want to respond to the urgency, by ensuring the economic efficiency of our policies and the effectiveness of social progress. Beyond the existing employment policies, we are continuing, through this text, the simplification of the integration arrangements and we are providing an operational response to the ambition pact for integration through economic activity developed more than a year ago with all professionals in the sector. Today, with almost 4000 integration structures through economic activity, whose efficiency is recognised, the sector has become largely professionalised and must be able to pass the course of the 100,000 additional integration routes, with the support of businesses and local authorities. This inclusive approach, which links the economic and social factors, competitiveness and citizen engagement of the enterprise, is essential to combat long-term unemployment. Because the path to employment is not always linear, all the bridges that make it possible to regain the dignity and autonomy of work and training must be explored. I would like to reaffirm the strategic role of Pôle Emploi, both by its ability to establish a diagnosis of professional agility during the first agency appointments but also by its relationship with the companies that makes it possible to better target the available profiles. In order to support those who are at risk of falling into long-term unemployment, we want, with this bill, to invest in accompaniment through schemes such as the CDI inclusion for older people without a solution or the three-year experiment of the new bridge contract, which aims to encourage the recruitment by traditional companies of people at the end of the integration journey. With this text, we intend to strongly encourage experiments that encourage the recruitment of people who are far from or at risk of becoming employed. It was this spirit of innovation that made it possible to launch the first stage of the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories" in 2016. Three years later, with more than a thousand CDI signed in companies for employment purposes, the first evaluations invite us to extend and extend this experiment by firmly linking it to the big family of economic inclusion. This extension will cover fifty new territories, in addition to the ten existing ones. The Government may, however, exceed this limit of sixty territories by authorizing additional territories, by way of derogation, by decree. I am pleased that we have managed to achieve this mechanism, which we, together with the rapporteur, have proposed at the outset of our discussions with the Government in order to maintain all the flexibility that the situation of remoteness from employment requires. Finally, because we support businesses and employment at all costs, we must vigorously pursue the work relating to the social engagement of companies, through apprenticeships and internships, but also the economic inclusion of people close to employment who are discriminated against in hiring because of an atypical career path, their address, their origin or their skin colour. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is the effective commitment of all – IAE structures, businesses and local authorities – complemented by a desire for enhanced territorial coordination thanks to the public service of integration and employment, which will significantly reduce the number of people who are permanently unemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u87	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u88	On September 15, we were gathered here in open session to discuss this bill. Two and a half months later, we met again to vote for it. I would like to highlight the speed with which this text has reached the end of its legislative process, with the informed contribution and listening of the two rapporteurs, MP Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and our colleague Senator Frédérique Puissat. I would also like, at this stage of the legislative process, to stress the demanding and determined approach shown by the two chambers and the willingness of the two rapporteurs to build this bill with pragmatism to allow us to take a step forward on the problem of long-term unemployment and mass unemployment. After the summer break, we had tried to find an additional way to restore employment to those who had been permanently deprived of it. At the Joint Joint Committee on 28 October, a compromise had been reached. Today, our group will be content with this and will approve the text as it resulted from our work in the CMP, even if the scope of the problem should have, could have given rise to further answers. However, this bill is a step towards the right to employment and activity for all. By this message, by this vote which I hope to be unanimous – in September of this year, we have already sought to achieve such a consensus – we turn our attention to the job seekers most affected by unemployment, to the young people who are unable to enter the labour market, to the beneficiaries of the social minimums, and we hope that the public authorities, the state and local and regional authorities will find solutions to help them. Among the mechanisms provided for in this bill are, first of all, the strengthening of integration through economic activity, but also a system of access to employment for older persons, as well as measures that offer more fluidity to recruitment through integration structures through economic activity. These provisions were necessary in view of the shift taken by the Government to support integration through economic activity. The stewardship had to follow; This bill is moving forward. The dual objective of the "long-term unemployed zero-territories" was both to extend and extend the first ten experiments. In the mind, he's reached. It seemed to me a willingness to consolidate what was done for a few years. Even if, obviously, we could have acted differently and gone further, the enlargement of the experiment required in this Parliament is justified and the other measures are rightly derived from it. Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur, I agree with Boris Vallaud's proposal to set up an information mission to monitor the application of the law, because there is still a long way to go. It will be necessary to make decrees, to draw up a specification, and we must ensure that the regulatory power is in keeping with the work of Parliament, carried out in just two and a half months. I would not like this bill to be delayed in its implementation. But from experience, I know that the administration is necessarily moving at the same pace as we are. Moreover, parliamentarians should not be dispossessed of the momentum that we have instilled in the drafting of this text. Beyond the differences we may have had, we wanted this bill, we designed it together. I believe that it is up to parliamentarians to continue to be involved, as far as possible, in ensuring the proper implementation of the experiment, while respecting the text that we are going to vote on today. I too wish the Committee on Social Affairs to move forward on this point. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] In conclusion, and because this bill deals with employment, you know, Madam Deputy Minister, that mass unemployment and sustainable unemployment are a scourge for our society – as has been said for so long. Women and men, who are banished from society and placed in the closet of employment, find themselves waiting for a possible hiring, whose perspective moves away over time while at the same time increasing their exclusion from the labour market but also, very often, from any social bond, from any social life, with dramatic consequences for their families and for their daily lives. Obviously, we had to move forward. I am glad that we were able to do so, with great dignity, even if another look was certainly possible. Tonight, I say it with great conviction and force: even if the road is still long, the Republican Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u90	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u91	Today's vote on the draft law on strengthening employment through economic activity and on experimenting with "long-term zero-unemployed territories", as drafted by the Joint Committee, is very much awaited by all those who work to promote the social and occupational integration of our citizens. Following its passage in both chambers, the CMP agreed on compromises that would allow for the inclusion of interesting contributions from the Senate while maintaining certain provisions that the Assembly would like. The work of the Senate has helped to improve the text on a number of issues, including how to follow up on the experiment "long-term unemployed zero-territories" and better guide the experimental arrangements for bridge contracts, by defining a mechanism for the cumulation of a conventional contract and an integration contract, thus promoting the link between integration and the trading sector, or by proposing the creation of a forum within the economic and social councils, which encourages social dialogue within the integration structures. The Senate also wished to retain the possibility of derogating from the 24-month period for the renewal of CDDI beyond 57 years, in parallel with the possibility of entering into contracts of indefinite duration of inclusion. The National Assembly, for its part, wished to retain the participation of the departments in the financing of the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories". However, she listened to the Senate by submitting to the validation of the departments the possibility of experiments. This means that they can only be launched if they are in line with the integration policy put in place in the territory. It is on this condition that the financial participation of the departments – the amount of which will be determined by decree – will be compulsory. Our two chambers have finally helped to make it possible to exceed the number of sixty territories authorized to contract an experiment. It seemed essential to maintain the experimental character of the scheme by deploying it only to a number of territories in order to carry out a serious assessment of it before it was extended. However, on the bench of the Assembly, we had a commitment from Minister Elizabeth Borne to be able to arbitrate the possibility of going beyond sixty territories in the case of more mature and much-anticipated projects. During the examination of the text in the Senate, this possibility was included in the text. The agreement reached in the CMP will therefore allow us, thanks to the accelerated procedure adopted for this text, to implement these provisions quickly, whether it is the extension of the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories", on which it was necessary for us to act quickly, or certain measures of the IAE pact: the abolition of the IAE licence, the possibility of signing a CDI inclusion from the age of 57 or the abolition of the limit of 480 hours for intermediate associations in a framework specified by decree, under the responsibility of the Prefect. This bill alone will not solve all the difficulties facing our most fragile citizens, but it will do its part by giving flexibility to the structures of the IAE and to the enterprises adapted to offer them more than 100,000 additional jobs, and by opening up the possibility, in the most difficult territories, of creating other forms of employment, not provided by the merchant sector or by the IAE, and to the right extent of women and men who no longer enter traditional employment frameworks but aspire to the dignity and sense of belonging given by the work. It is this type of text – even if it is only small stones – that the country needs to ensure its cohesion. On behalf of my group, I would like to welcome all the parliamentarians who took part in the discussion, the kind listening of the rapporteur here and her willingness to draft the text constructively, as well as the Government, which has also listened to parliamentarians and actors on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I also want to send a greeting and friendly support to these same actors on the ground, professionals and volunteers, who cannot be defined by the colour of their blouse but who, tirelessly, with heart and away from unnecessary controversy, heal the wounds of our country to make every human victory a victory for our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u92	I put to the vote the whole of the proposal for a law on strengthening the inclusion in employment through economic activity and experimenting with "long-term zero-unemployed territories", taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u93	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 79 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u94	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u95	I would like to thank all the Members who have contributed, through their important work, to the drafting of this text, under the auspices of the rapporteur, Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, whom I especially welcome. Throughout the procedure, Members' input contributed to the final balance of the text. It was through a constant and open dialogue that we reached this pragmatic text together. I would like to thank all parliamentary groups for the quality of their listening, their proposals and for the strength of their commitment. This law is more necessary than ever. It was essential that it could be adopted quickly and under the best conditions for all Territories, including the overseas territories, which would receive special attention at the time of its implementation. We have seen in this text how important it is to legislate for inclusion in the context of a health and economic crisis. This final unanimous adoption by your House enshrines the concrete response that this text will bring to those who are furthest from employment and to those who are most vulnerable by the crisis. You have just created, ladies and gentlemen, an additional tool for inclusive recovery. However, the work does not stop: we will continue to increase efforts, arrangements and budgets together so as not to leave anyone on the side of the road, and I renew the commitment that the implementing texts will be taken as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On behalf of the Government, I would like to reiterate my thanks to all Members of Parliament, in particular to you, the rapporteur, for your contribution to the enrichment of the text and for your remarkable investment in employment for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u96	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Stéphanie Rist, Mr Christophe Castaner, Mrs Fadila Khattabi, Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour and others to improve the health system through trust and simplification (No 3470, 3598 rectified).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u97	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u98	I am delighted to discuss with you, Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, whose aim is to improve and simplify our health system, and to give more confidence to its actors. The health crisis has focused on our country's health system by showing us how urgent it is to take care of those who care for us. They no longer want a great Health Law; They expect pragmatic advances that improve their daily lives. This own-initiative text is not intended to solve all the problems exhaustively, but to provide a new dynamic of flexibility and simplification; It has been considerably enriched by dozens of hours of hearings and an intense day of examination in committee, and it gives concrete expression to the guidelines of the Ségur de la santé signed by the social partners, which provides for salary adjustments implemented under the law on the financing of social security which we have just adopted, as well as other measures which require a non-budgetary legislative vector: this is the subject of this bill. It should be pointed out, even if the bill I am presenting to you aims at creating a dynamic in this direction, that many of the measures expected by health professionals fall within the regulatory level and the ordinances provided for under the "Ma Santé 2022" law, and therefore do not appear in this text: I am thinking, for example, of the reform of the status of hospital practitioner and recruitment procedures, a reform essential to improve the attractiveness of the professions of the public hospital. In this regard, Minister, it would be helpful if you could provide us with more visibility on the publication and content of these highly anticipated orders. I wanted the bill to take over first of all the measure No. 7 of Segur: the creation of an intermediate medical profession. In France, there is a strong compartmentalisation of healthcare professionals between, on the one hand, the graduate doctor with a baccalaureate plus ten and, on the other hand, medical assistants with a baccalaureate plus three to five, and the gap remains deep between the former and the latter while many neighbouring countries have considerably improved the scalability of the professions of medical assistants to better meet the challenges of our time. According to the commitment made during the Segur, the order of doctors and the order of nurses, commissioned by the minister, had to work together to define the intermediate medical profession, this text having to include in the marble of the law the principle of the profession thus defined. However, the order of doctors conditioned its participation in consultations upon the withdrawal of Article 1 in its original wording. On my initiative, the committee has taken note of this situation of deadlock and has rewritten the article in question, which now provides for the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the state of implementation of the cooperation protocols and advanced practices in this field. I believe it is essential to redefine the trades of each of the health professionals in order to bring our country into the 21st century. The committee also adopted an amendment to the Additional Rule after Article 1er, which considerably extends the possibilities offered by the cooperation protocols. The latter can now be transversal, i.e. signed by professionals working in the hospital, in the city or in the medical and social sector. This is a major step forward in the coordination of care and decompartment – finally. It is in the same vein that the committee has adopted several additional articles extending the competences of midwives and massage therapists because, like these professionals, I hope that the health system will emerge from the medicocentrism that characterizes it to seek skills wherever they are. Article 7 has also been the subject of a very rich debate in committee. It deals with local hospital groups – GHT. After working extensively on the subject, first as a physician responsible for a shared medical project and then as a Member of Parliament during my meetings with the GHT actors as part of my work as co-rapporteur of the "My Health 2022" bill, it seemed to me essential to move these groups forward towards greater integration. It is not a question of proposing a merger which, some will not fail to recall, prematurely, but only to take a step towards more effective HHT within the framework of a graduated and strengthened care offer. Experience has shown that the common directorates are an effective lever for progress in this direction, as confirmed by recent reports from the Court of Auditors and the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs – IGAS. I firmly believe that HHTs are effective tools to improve access to care when they are as integrated as possible. It is our responsibility as elected officials to advance them. In the initial drafting of Article 7, I proposed a systematic common direction as soon as a position of director of an establishment belonging to the GHT became vacant...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u99	That's not a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u100	...but, in the face of the fears expressed, the committee adopted on my initiative a rewriting of the said article providing for an interim by the institution support in case of vacancy, a position that can be transformed into a common direction only after the opinion of the elected representatives of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u101	It's even worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u102	I have no doubt that this compromise solution will enable the elected representatives we are to move towards a better offer of care in our territories. Also with regard to the organisation of care, the committee adopted an amendment by Mr Thomas Mesnier, which, in the wake of his report submitted in 2019, proposes the creation of an access service to unscheduled care. This service would be based in particular on a unique health number, separate from that dedicated to relief and safety. I am sure that this subject will be the subject of passionate and exciting debates. Other measures contained in this more consensual bill have been the subject of less passionate but equally important debates. These include the provisions relating to the governance of the public hospital resulting from the consultations conducted by Professor Olivier Claris in the framework of his report on the governance of the hospital, the conclusions of which were paid to the Ségur: Article 5 enshrines in the law the essential role of the service as a basic unit indispensable for the organisation of the institutions, thus restoring the function of head of service, appointed by administrative and medical codecision; Articles 6 and 8 give institutions even more flexibility in their internal organisation; Article 9 introduces users, students and caregivers into governance bodies because it is desirable to open the hospital to the city. The numerous hearings that I conducted prior to the examination of the text in committee made it possible to make these various articles considerably clearer. Article 11 corresponds to a major expectation of hospitals, since it proposes to add a managerial component to the establishment project, which is essential to the recognition and motivation of the teams. Another important measure of Ségur is the fight against mercenarism and the excesses of medical intervention found in our territories, especially those that are most in difficulty. Section 10 sends a strong message to professionals who benefit from current demographic difficulties by requiring unreasonable pay conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the debates that we will have tonight and tomorrow will be rich and up to the stakes when all the eyes of our fellow citizens are turned on our health system. Let's be on the rendezvous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u103	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u104	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u105	The bill that we will be debating is in a particular context, since our country has been facing a major health crisis for almost a year now. If France has been able to cope, it is thanks to the daily commitment of the caregivers who, today, are still fighting the virus in our hospitals, in medical offices, in clinics, in laboratories, wherever the situation calls them. The applause of the French at twenty o'clock was not dictated by a passing emotion, nor the fruit of a buzz as our time can produce; They reflected the sincere and spontaneous gratitude of our compatriots to those who care for them, to those who are there when what they have most precious is threatened. The symbols have their importance, the commitments too: from the first epidemic wave, the President of the Republic wanted the Government to look in front of the old demands defended by the white coats, and to act quickly and hard to find solutions to a growing ill-being, especially in the public hospital. I know this ill-being: it is at the origin of my personal commitment. I have not forgotten the profession that I have practiced for years or my union struggles by crossing the doors of Parliament and then the doors of the ministry. Throughout the Ségur de la santé, against false modesty, against frightened precautions, I spoke of the box at the bottom right of the pay sheet: unprecedented revalorisations were signed on 13 July in Matignon. They will benefit all the medical and paramedical staff of the hospital – or rather I should use the present since, as of December, almost two million caregivers will receive 183 euros net more per month. Beyond the issue of revalorizations, Ségur de la santé has made it possible to establish a solid and shared diagnosis across our health system. The situation has changed, both because of the Government's ambition since 2017 and because of the force of things, this unprecedented situation that we are experiencing. Today everything is shaken: it is enough to see the expenditure made in recent months and which the Assembly has just taken action by voting at last reading on the social security budget to see that certain dogmas have not resisted the gravity of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u107	I do not know if it is a bridge between the world before and after, but I have the weakness to think that we are building solid foundations together to meet the immense challenges ahead. While the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021 allows, through unprecedented financial mobilization in particular, to consolidate the first commitments of the Secur de la santé, the Secur de la santé again crosses the doors of Parliament because if it was necessary to give the floor to the caregivers, it is no less so that the representatives of the nation seize a subject that concerns all our fellow citizens. The bill of the deputy Stéphanie Rist is the occasion of this meeting between Parliament and the fruit of the deliberation of the Segur of Health. This text should enable Parliament to refine, clarify and strengthen the commitments made this summer. I thank Stéphanie Rist for having seized the subject and each and every one of you for the work of enrichment and consolidation which has been yours in committee and which I hope will still be so in this House. The national representation was given the opportunity to lay an additional and essential stone in the Ségur building. This is all the more legitimate because we know what the mobilization of parliamentarians has been since the beginning in the storm that we are going through. Refine, clarify, reinforce: this is the triptych that must guide us as we begin our consideration of this bill. Its scope concerns the organisational aspects of the daily lives of public health actors, whether they are simplifications, freedoms and room for manoeuvre left to those who know better than anyone how to organise themselves. They have shown us this throughout the health crisis. See, that's to see; To do that is to know, says a proverb. During the health crisis, the hospital service proved to be the necessary level of proximity to the healthcare teams, which makes sense for all the actors in the hospital. I add that city medicine has not been left behind, and it still shows it every day – the city-hospital link, in particular, has been considerably strengthened on this occasion. For this reason, Ségur has advocated the rehabilitation of the role and place of the famous "service" within the hospital, in order to put an end to the excesses of the law of 21 July 2009 on the reform of the hospital and on patients, health and territories, known as HPST, including a recommendation of Professor Claris' report. The "hospital service", to which the entire hospital sector was attached, had disappeared in 2008; Many were the ones who regretted it. The bill also responds to a long-standing demand from local actors, reinforced by the health crisis: they want greater freedom of internal organisation of health facilities. The crisis has shown that collectives of care can adapt, organize and overcome very sensitive situations without waiting for an agreement, validation or a green light from above. If, within a hospital, the communities agree to adapt the organization, to choose a different governance than that of other institutions, what would justify preventing them from doing so? We must continue to make progress on hospital democracy. The text proposes that a representative of non-medical personnel, a representative of health students and a representative of users should sit in the Executive Board of public institutions. One may wonder why they do not already sit there, because it seems self-evident; Yet today, they are absent. This presence in the Executive Board, we owe it to paramedics, students and users, because when it comes to making decisions, it is necessary that the experience lived, whatever it may be, has its place. I come to the fight against the "mercenariat", in which the Government committed itself – this subject was already at the heart of the plan "investing for the hospital", launched by my predecessor. The excesses of medical internment can indeed disrupt the provision of care in the territories and undermine the finances of hospitals. The bill allows, once and for all, to make effective the regulatory ceiling of the medical interim by obliging the public accountant to reject any payment that exceeds it. There are very scandalous situations in this area, even if not all of them. For those who know the life of a service, it is also and above all a plague that undermines the cohesion of an entire team. I have been fighting on this subject for many years: as a young parliamentarian, in 2013, my first report was on temporary medical employment in the public hospital and a number of proposals were subsequently made on this subject. Today, I am very grateful to Stephanie Rist for identifying the right lever, I believe, to put an end to some excessive practices. The bill reinforces a number of movements born this summer with the Ségur de la santé, such as the extension of the scope of competence of certain professions – for example, midwives, but also masseur-kinesitherapists. To allow members of professions such as these to perform acts that were hitherto impossible to them is to make the choice of confidence and efficiency; It's making the bet that our health care system will not meet the challenges that await it by breaking away from chapel wars and respecting square meadows. I am delighted that the Segur of Health is continuing in the Chamber – it is, in a way, a Bourbon of Health that you are engaging today. The stakes are clear: we must find together the ways and means by which the measures decided last summer will find concrete application on the ground, in the territories, in each hospital service in France. Because, for months, I've been visiting a very large number of hospital services through the territory, I can tell you that the expectations are very high from the teams who told us this: you trusted us to manage the deepest health crisis the country has experienced in more than a century, so trust us to manage daily care and let us organize ourselves! That message, as you have heard, the rapporteur: your bill is a testament to that. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer also applauds]] I once again commend the work of all those who have enriched the text. I come before you with the real and sincere desire that the parliamentary debates can allow us to enrich what must be and to change what might be. The debate is open because I do not present myself before the national representation by being strong of firm convictions or forged by I do not know what technostructure; I hope that we can have exchanges and debates, which I hope will be constructive, in the service of caregivers and, above all, of the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u108	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u109	It is true that it is not our practice to put forward a motion to reject a text tabled by a Member of Parliament. This is part of the practice of republican respect. However, the bill before us is intended to translate into law the choices made by the Government in the context of the Secur of Health. These choices are not included in a bill but in a text of parliamentary origin, however, they are those of the Government. In so doing, the Council of State avoided two obligations: the text was not the subject of an opinion of the Council of State or an impact assessment. However, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the respect that we owe to caregivers would have required that such a text not only be legally secured by an opinion of the Council of State, but also that it be subject to an impact assessment so that its consequences are analysed. That is why, together with the deputies of the Socialist and related groups, I have asked the President of the National Assembly to refer the draft law to the Council of State for its opinion, pursuant to Article 4 bis of the Ordinance of 17 November 1958 on the functioning of parliamentary assemblies. Unfortunately, he has not responded favourably to my request, which I regret. The referral to the Council of State would have been all the more necessary as this bill, as it was tabled on the board of our assembly, proved particularly tiring – it had ten pages in all and for everything. Still, there were three and a half pages of explanatory memorandum to clarify the content of each of the articles, leaving only six pages to the original fifteen articles of the bill itself. Referral to the Council of State would also have been necessary in view of the lack of editorial rigour of certain articles, which probably indicates the haste in which the bill was drafted. Because of the legal approximations to the text, it had to be rewritten massively by the Government and the rapporteur: five of the six initial articles had been completely or almost completely rewritten. You will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament's credibility is also based on its ability to exercise its right of legislative initiative by proposing legally agreed texts: in this case, this condition has not been met. I repeat: I think the caregivers deserved a little more consideration. On the substance, does this bill meet its objective of translating into law the non-budgetary measures announced in the framework of the Sécur de la santé? Unfortunately, the answer is no – or if the text succeeds, it is extremely fragmented. Only five of the thirty-three proposals of the Ségur de la santé are found in the text – which is very little. What are these five measures? First of all, in Article 10 of the bill, there is the measure No. 3, which aims to put an end to the abuse of medical intervention, a measure which the minister has told us about – I remember perfectly well that he was the first to fight on this issue in the House in 2013. The provision, which I find quite clever and clever, allows accountants to block the remuneration of medical acting contracts that exceed the limit set by the regulations or that do not comply with the conditions. Second, measure 7 of the Ségur relates to the strengthening of the deployment of advanced practice, which allows nurses to carry out missions that are broader than their original scope of competence in order to respond to changes in the organisation of care. This measure is translated into Article 1er but in a somewhat misguided form – I will come back to it later. Action No. 18, taken from Article 5 of the draft law, aims to give more autonomy to hospital services in the management and adaptation of their organisation. It is a question of returning to more concrete units, the services – that of oncology or cardiology – rather than superstructures to which no one understands anything. Measure 19 is linked to the previous measure: hospitals will no longer be obliged to organize themselves into clusters of activities bringing together several services. Finally, measure 22 of Ségur aims to better involve caregivers and users in the life of the hospital. It is translated into several provisions of the text, such as the possibility of merging the EMCs – establishment medical commissions – and the CIRMTs – nursing, rehabilitation and medicotechnical commissions. Of the thirty-three measures contained in the Secur de la santé, the five I have just mentioned are the only ones included in the bill. They are the subject of only six of the twenty-seven articles that the text now contains, following its consideration by the Committee on Social Affairs. If we join, as I said earlier, in certain provisions, such as the fight against the abuse of medical intervention, we are in deep disagreement with others. I'll stop at two of them. First of all, I want to go back to the creation of an intermediate medical profession between nurses and doctors, which was originally included in the text. This proposal seemed to us to be doubly problematic. On the one hand, the Ségur de la santé foresees only the launch of a mission of reflection on the subject – doctors and nurses were therefore very surprised by the introduction "without warning", according to an expression already used, of the device in the bill. On the other hand, the opportunity to create a new level between nurses and graduate doctors seems to us to be very questionable. The law of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health system, adopted at the time of the previous majority, already allows nurses to carry out missions in a wider field of competence, which is very good, but it also provides for an evaluation. In the face of the general discontent that you have aroused among health care professionals in trying to become strong, you have eventually receded by replacing this measure with a report on advanced practice to speed up its deployment. If we support the deployment of advanced practice, we propose that you include in the scope of the reflection carried out in the framework of this report the question of the indemnification of medical auxiliaries practising in advanced practice. Indeed, the index grid of personnel practising in advanced practice, defined by the Government in the decree of 12 March 2020, has proved to be below the expectations of professionals: the remuneration of a nurse in advanced practice beginner, fixed at the amount of 2085 euros gross, seems insufficient. We therefore hope that the extension of the competences and responsibilities brought about by the exercise in advanced practice can lead to an indexing that is truly up to this new qualification. Above all, we believe that the two provisions introduced in the bill aimed at concentrating power in the hands of the support institution of the hospital group of territory, the famous GHT, are not acceptable. First, they were not proposed in the Segur of Health. The majority, therefore, introduces provisions into the text, in catimini, which will have major consequences for the structure of the organisation of the health system in the territories, without any prior evaluation or consultation of these measures. They are also unacceptable because of their content. First measure: on an experimental basis, the majority wishes, thanks to Article 4, to give the director of the GHT support institution the opportunity to decide on the creation of hospital practitioners' posts in all the other establishments in the group. In concrete terms, even if the director of the support establishment can act only on a joint proposal from the director and the president of the EMC of the institution concerned, and after the opinion of the medical grouping committee, he will always be able to refuse a job creation requested by one of the institutions parties. We believe that this proposal is not acceptable and that it would constitute a guardianship of the health facilities of the GHT. In addition, the first version of the text provided that the RSA – the regional health agency – could object to the decision of the director of the supporting establishment, but this possibility was swept away and removed in committee. Thus, the decision of the director of the support institution will not be subject to any challenge or opposition. That is why we will propose the deletion of Article 4. The second measure proposed by the majority, in Article 7, is to assign the post of head of establishment left vacant in one of the HHT institutions to the head of the HHT support institution. If the examination in committee has made it possible to relax this mechanism by giving the final decision to the ARS to entrust the post to the director of the support institution after an interim period of one year, we believe that this article continues to meet the same desire for centralisation, in the hands of the support institution of the GHT, which would be contrary to the very spirit of the creation of that group, which in no way intended to achieve a total centralisation of powers within the support institution. Such a system could therefore lead to centralisation of the decision within the support institution and, ultimately, the non-renewal of management positions – that is what is at the key in local establishments. We will also propose that this provision be deleted. Last but not least, what may strike, Madam rapporteur, and Mr.Minister, may be the absence of a lead. As you said earlier, it is not a text that aims to reform or review the organization of care systems, but we can still ask ourselves the question... This proposal is only an attempt, moreover, incomplete, to assemble poorly articulated measures between them. I hear you don't want to see everything again; Nevertheless, a good articulation would probably be necessary. I will take an example: looking at the territorial organization of the health system would have assumed that the role of RHAs was being questioned. But not only does the text not say anything about it, but it sends contradictory signals. I'll mention two of them. On the one hand, you are withdrawing from the RSOs the possibility of opposing the recruitment decisions of the head of the institution, while on the other hand, you are relying on the RSOs to decide whether or not to entrust the director of the support institution, the position of director of one of the HHT institutions that would be vacant. You will confess that there is something to lose from it a bit of its Latin, especially with regard to the role you really want to give to the ARS. Secondly, another organizational issue will have to be put on the table. For example, France and Germany each spend 11.5 per cent of their gross domestic product – GDP – on health. Only in Germany there are more doctors than in France: 4.3 doctors per 1000 inhabitants compared to 3.4; In addition, doctors are better paid in Germany than in France. There are more nurses in Germany than in France: 13.6 per 1000 inhabitants compared to 10.8; Moreover, they are better paid overseas than here – according to data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD. This means that with the same proportion of national wealth devoted to health, we have fewer caregivers who are also less well paid. In other words, money is wasted in managerial echelons of which sometimes no one understands what they are doing. Therefore, our responsibility is twofold: to ensure the proper use of public money and to ensure that caregivers are compensated for the considerable role they play and the responsibilities they take for us. The second totally absent subject of the bill – the minister said a word about it and I thank him for it: the link with city medicine. Practitioners, caregivers, nurses, whom they practise as liberals, in the hospital but also in clinics, formed a "pack" during the crisis: everyone has advanced together, everyone has tried to mobilize and I find it regrettable that you are considering the organization of medicine by silos, forgetting all the components that, I think of city medicine, play an essential role in the organization of care. Finally, you write a text without talking about money. Of course, you will tell me that the issue has been addressed in the Social Security Financing Bill. On the contrary, I think that we must always provide for means corresponding to the objectives we set ourselves. To talk about money is to commit to job creation and salary adjustments. But you don't say that. However, as early as last year, in October 2019, we proposed a hospital plan, a health plan with targeted upgrades and job creation, and I regret that this text does not mention the amount of each one or the number of others. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] It is for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that together with the members of the Socialist and related Group, we invite you to vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u110	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u111	This motion for rejection has been tabled by your group on the basis, inter alia, of the Government's desire to free itself from the impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State. It seems to me that you thus despise the parliamentary initiative to which we are all very attached. This bill presented by Stéphanie Rist is based primarily on numerous reports and consultations; it has been reworked in committee to take account of the numerous hearings carried out. Indeed, the Ségur de la santé was launched alongside nearly 300 actors in the world of health. This broad consultation allowed us to collectively learn the lessons of the epidemic and to link up with the "My Health 2022" plan to build the foundations of a more resilient, collaborative health system, but also to listen more to professionals, users and territories. The text includes several of the recommendations of Professor Claris' report on hospital governance reform, which is based on numerous hearings and field visits and more than 6,000 responses to a questionnaire. It is also based on the Emergency Rebuilding Pact developed by parliamentarians, physicians, health professionals, which is the result of numerous consultations, working groups and expertise. This bill is a major step in restoring room for manoeuvre and flexibility to the health system. It shows all the confidence we have in the health actors, through strong measures on the place of the service, the fight against acting or the hospital groups of the territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I cannot therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you would not only be against all the progress that has been proposed, much expected, but also defiant with regard to parliamentary work. Against the immobilization which has led hospitals and the health system to the situation which is theirs and renewing its confidence in the health actors and our colleagues, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u113	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u114	It is always difficult to consider a motion to reject a private member's text as much as we know what work requires the development of a bill. What bothers me somewhat, however, here is that the Government, rather than considering that a parliamentary debate should be held following the Segur de la Santé, is content with this work, of course important, by our colleague Stephanie Rist, without asking him to reconsider his text, which is basically a government text. Moreover, an impact assessment and an opinion of the Council of State are lacking. I do not say that our colleague's work is not important, I insist, and I do not want that to be what I say. At the same time, it is a pity that there is a need for a bill – which our role as deputies is important – for the Government to say that it is necessary to discuss the Segur of Health and to legislate. As President Rabault said, only five of Segur's 38 proposals are included in this bill. While midwives, physiotherapists and doctors will be delighted, other professions are still forgotten, as are many measures. We must also count on great disappointment and I think that our group is not the only one in this case: out of 49 amendments tabled, only 17 have been declared admissible. The Members of the La France insoumée group will therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand pending a true government text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u115	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u116	I owe it to the truth, Madam rapporteur, to acknowledge the sincerity and depth of your commitment to health issues and the important work you have done in this area with this bill. I must also tell you that this text is ill-prepared and that it is probably too early in the parliamentary calendar. Poorly prepared because many articles had to be rewritten under pressure, especially from those to whom your proposals had to be addressed, and many examples of parliamentary life showed that a country was never being reformed against those who had to implement the reform. You have drawn from this: the commission has taken over almost all of the drafting of your articles. This text is also premature because the mission to assess and monitor social security financing laws, the MECSS, which is a body of the Assembly, has just included in its work programme that a report should be submitted before next summer on regional health agencies and on local hospital groups. As you see, the rapporteur, I had understood very recently that it would probably be better to trust Parliament's proposal force, control force and analytical force rather than outside bodies, whether it is IGAS or Professor Claris. Therefore, for all these reasons, and because the motion that was put before us by President Rabault was ideological and perfectly well-constructed in legal terms, the Republican Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u117	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u118	The Democratic Movement and Related Democrats Group will vote against this motion of rejection. Indeed, why always reject?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u119	Because there is no more motion to refer to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u120	For our part, we prefer to work on the interesting bill proposed by the rapporteur, which has been added to the recommendations of the Ségur de la santé. We therefore look forward to the debate that will follow with great anticipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u121	The new rules of procedure should not be voted on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u122	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u123	Despite all the work done, as our colleague Valérie Rabault has just shown, it seems to us that there are several problems with this text. First of all, it does not meet the objective set by its authors, namely the legislative translation of the measures negotiated within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. Indeed, only a small number of articles, and in an imperfect manner, fulfil the commitments made in this dialogue with the personnel concerned. I would also like to point out that not all of these negotiations have been completed and that they will have to be completed: medical and social workers are still waiting for them to be taken into account in index adjustments. Secondly, this text has been very criticized for the measures it proposes, and not only for Article 1, which has been amended, which is to be welcomed. The inter-union of hospital practitioners, for example, has called for the withdrawal of this bill. We are clearly seeing a lack of agreement on this text. On the other hand, we deplore the speed with which we have had to study and amend it, in a context where professionals are still mobilized by the covid-19. As we have expressed in committee, the centralization of prerogatives in the hands of the head of the GHT support institution is a cause for concern. We see it as a question of cooperation and a weakening of the role of community hospitals, while professionals ask for listening and decision-making bodies as close as possible to them. Finally, we know that access to and quality of care are directly linked to concerted organizations that are closest to users. In its latest version, this text offers the possibility of strengthening cooperation between health professionals; This is a step forward, but the question of the approximation of the structures for the care of citizens is not dealt with. Too many medical deserts, too many pathologies linked to social inequalities, too many abandonments of care are the subjects that must be the subject of thoughtful measures. We regret that our amendments aimed at a better distribution of doctors in the territory have been declared inadmissible. In short, because this text does not address the major issues in our health care system, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u124	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u125	We can understand that this text, in view of its objective, namely the translation of the agreements of the Ségur, may have seemed a little hasty and probably untabotious. It is also true that the original text has been profoundly changed, which is evidence of the rapporteur's great listening capacity, and we have no doubt that the debates in this House will continue to feed the evolution of the text, in particular on articles for which we have almost set a red line, namely Articles 1, 7 and 14. Furthermore, given that no bill on comprehensive health system reform is on the agenda and that it is imperative to debate this issue, we hope that this bill will make progress on some of the Segur's agreements. The Group of the European People's Party regrets that a large majority of our amendments have been considered inadmissible even though they could have enriched the text, in particular on the paramedical professions and their evolution. However, we will never refuse the debate in the Chamber, and that is why we will reject this motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u126	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u127	The UDI-I Group will vote against this motion for rejection because, as a matter of principle, we consider that we are here to debate, especially since our position is not yet fixed and will be refined according to the evolution of the debates – I am thinking in particular of Articles 7 and 7a. We regret that the improvement of the health system, which is the subject of this text, does not lead to its decentralization – trust must also be expressed towards the territories – but we must not under any circumstances avoid the proposed debate and it is important that we be able to express our fears and argue them with the experiences we observe in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u128	On the motion of prior rejection, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u129	Valérie Rabault made a very convincing demonstration of the problematic method that led this bill to be presented to us under the conditions you know. Stéphanie Rist has been working there for some time and, since she put this work on the job, a number of things have happened: the Ségur de la santé has gone through it and has probably led it to modify – perhaps she would rather add to – the original text, but the Government should precisely assume the results of the negotiations it has conducted and present them to us itself, with all the arrangements that should accompany these measures, namely a review by the Council of State and impact studies. These are measures that are heavy enough for Parliament to look at things in the most enlightened way, especially since some of the measures incorporated in this proposal are not minor and will have an impact on the structure of the healthcare system and the public hospital. In addition, you have chosen a number of these measures without retaining them all, which cannot fail to ask questions. I would add that the Government has allowed itself to trigger the accelerated procedure. Long live the parliamentary initiative, we say, but in the meantime, the Government is putting pressure on the review of the text to accelerate. No one is fooled by what happened; It's pretty revealing. The GDR Group is challenging not only the method used but also the substance, I will come to it in my speech in general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u130	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u131	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 19 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u132	In the general debate, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u133	We should welcome a bill on health. We should be happy to be able to share the daily experience of many of us, with a view to moving forward together to improve our health system. However, this text does not respond in any way to the ills reported by caregivers, their collectives, their trade union representatives, and opposition groups that are building alternative projects for the country. On July 10, 2017, as a new Member of Parliament, I recalled the fourteen basic needs of Virginia Henderson that all caregivers learn to practice their profession – an ethical charter in short. Let's take up my 2017 speech, need it out of need, and take stock; Let's see where we are three and a half years later. First need: breathing, a simple thing in itself and yet complicated when it is more than thirty degrees in a university hospital room. Today, nothing has changed. Second need: drink and eat. I had made a smile by comparing the gavage of humans with that of geese and ducks, but on man as on animals, you are not there. Third need: eliminate. It is the ability of a person to be self-sufficient to eliminate stools and urine and to ensure his intimate hygiene, so obvious need, except that, for lack of time to accompany patients to the toilet, the laying of protection has become systematic. No change, except savings on the quality of protections. Fourth need: move and maintain a good posture. It is the ability of a person to travel alone or with mechanical means. We don't have time: so it will be wheelchair or bedkeeping for everyone. Ironically, today we are confined to her bed. Fifth need: sleep, rest. The labs have never thanked you so much. Sixth need: to dress, to dress, not to cut off clothes, as I explained to you. I'm always talking about allowing people to be dressed with dignity. Still unsolved. Seventh need: keep your body temperature within the normal range. I asked you at the time if we could, as in most French homes, have enough thermometers. I will not confront you to talk again about personal protective equipment – masks, overblouses, gloves. Eighth need: to be clean and to protect his integuments. I had offered you the toilet game, each one of you in less than six minutes. You can't do it, neither do caregivers, and yet nothing has changed. Ninth need: avoid dangers, the dead. Covid-19 shows that this is still not the case. Tenth need: communicating with others. At the time, I was wandering: "Do you consider, Madam Minister, what to respond to patients: ''I'm sorry, I don't have time'' is a form of social communication? Of course, Minister, this has not changed. I regroup the last four basic needs: acting according to one's beliefs and values, caring for oneself, recreating, learning. At the time, I thanked and showed my respect to all the volunteers who, through their actions, allowed these last needs to be preserved, but you will agree with me that the confinements did harm their actions. Even that's not the case anymore. As you see, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the compass used to examine a policy is not a war of abstract figures, but rather a test of whether or not basic principles can be achieved in the health professions. You have inherited a disastrous situation, I agree, but instead of embarking on a real plan for the health world, you have perpetuated the same policies of austerity and forced regroupment. It was still in a technocratic bubble that this bill was designed. Worse, it has editorial errors proving that we are again discussing a draft. [[MM. Jean-Hugues Ratenon and Alain Bruneel applaud]] All this is not serious. However, the current period requires more than anything else to look responsibly at the world of health. After four missed PLFSS, after a failed Segur, here are some missed corrections. If it were a fiction we could laugh at it, but France is not a series and seeing the world of health taking its feet in the carpet doesn't make anyone laugh. You're hurting a huge part of our society. A significant example is the reminder of the basic rules of caregivers. When are you going to listen to La France's proposals? When are you going to listen to the caregivers? You applauded at 8:00 p.m., but unfortunately you did nothing else.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u134	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u135	The bill before us today may not have much more to do with its original intent, first of all because it is subodorous that, in view of the passing of a legislative vehicle before it, the Government has not resisted the temptation to carpool, at the risk of turning it into an omnibus, then because the commission has been the scene of massive rewriting and substantial additions. So here we are in the presence of a text that claims to implement the measures, or rather organizational measures of the Segur, while a follow-up committee has been set up – has it been consulted? – and that in addition its composition, therefore its legitimacy is contested. Anyway, we've been in a parallel circuit from the beginning. We cannot legislate in this way and this will continue to generate many oppositions. The wisest would be to return to a more modest text, adopting the most consensual measures, and to give up rolling on the emergency stop band by turning on the pin-pon. It is not these measures that will make it possible to raise the public hospital, especially when it is known that it is always weaned of the means and personnel that are necessary to it. You leave aside essential structural and structural issues such as training, the organisation of city medicine, the organization of specialties, public-private confusion, and a few others. What is the philosophy behind the proposed measures? Deregulation and managerial belief. So the crisis seems to give you a pretext to blow up the rules. You do not do it at random, you do it to push as far as possible the managerial and technocratic logics that have contributed to weakening the public hospital and diverting it from care. This will further fuel the competition between structures and the pyramidal and centralized management of hospitals. For example, the departure of a hospital director could be the pretext to make this hospital, at the end of the day, an annex to the hospital support of the GHT. Without a real HHT balance sheet, you decide to accelerate what you call integration and install a new model of enhanced HHT, mutant HHT, with a remote control that matches well with the new public management model that you are trying to impose throughout the public service. This is a serious measure, by which health democracy is likely to fall further. You have been forced to give up the deployment of second-class medical professions, for lack of a global vision and the risk of renunciation, since at the same time, two subjects remain unambitious: the training of doctors on the one hand, and the organisation of city medicine on the other. What are your goals? If the reform of the care system requires a review of the division of labour, it must respect the overall coherence of the organisation, deploy in connection with training and trades, in the framework of a democratic process, and be accompanied by wage recognition. Your bill has been severely criticized by both the National Medical Council and the trade union organizations, which you did not audition. You can also imagine new procedures for the recruitment of hospital practitioners, procedures that are free from the rules in force and which offer no guarantee of improving the coverage of needs. You add an anti-interim provision that turns against school directors who are called upon to deal with delicate situations: you are wrongly targeted and leveraged – even if, of course, the fight against acting is an objective that we agree with. You ask hospitals to manage the intervention of unorganized volunteers and thus encourage a form of uberization of associative activities. The rehabilitation of the service managers you propose is minimalist, always under the auspices of the pole leaders. You add to the words "social project" those of "governance project" and "management project": it is exactly this logic that leads to loss of meaning and dehumanization. With a subreptitious amendment in committee, you are also tempted to reorganise the services of access to care by introducing a single health number, putting the actors in front of the fait accompli, without having shown that this is the right choice and without specifying what overall reorganization will result from it. Finally, you create a digital platform for people with disabilities. Why not, but should an article of the law be devoted to this measure? What, moreover, is the link between the creation of this platform and the decisions of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021? Why, finally, entrust this mission to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations? [[Alain Bruneel and Caroline Fiat applaud]] No doubt some of the measures provided for in the bill are acceptable, but it appears above all as a piece of art, for which – as I have already said – the Government has allowed itself to trigger the accelerated procedure, thus reducing the scope and time of the legislative work, which we would certainly need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u136	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u137	Our health system has been able to cope with the vague after-wave health crisis, thanks in particular to its extraordinary ability to act and the total dedication of the caregivers who, both in the city and in the hospital, have held, cooperated and innovated despite fatigue and fatigue. During the crisis, however, we observed dysfunctions and rigidities, which needed to be addressed in response to the challenges revealed by the epidemic. Thus, Ségur de la santé echoed the sector's strong expectations. It has led to the emergence of many ideas in consultation with stakeholders and has created a new impetus for our health system. It has fulfilled the President of the Republic's promise to implement a massive investment plan in the public hospital – worth EUR 19 billion – and a plan to upgrade all careers in the hospital – with an envelope of EUR 8.8 billion. A new era is opening up for hospital investment. In order to continue to transform the hospital collectively, we also need to address the weaknesses of the system, whether they relate to its organization, its responsibilities or its excessive bureaucracy. These are not budgetary issues, but the need to make the system more attractive, cooperative and transparent, and to improve it through trust and simplification. This is the wish of the health actors; This is also the ambition of the bill defended by my colleague Stéphanie Rist and the La République on the move. This text is based on numerous reports and on several reforms already initiated, relaunched and extended within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, to which it now gives a legislative translation. It is the result of a process of co-construction by which Parliament drew the fruit of the agreements of the Ségur de la Santé and of the attentive and constructive listening of the representatives of the health actors on the ground, many of whom were interviewed by the Committee on Social Affairs. The bill opens up the prospect of new professions for health professionals. Whether it is to amplify the provision of care or to enable medical assistants to strengthen their skills, their profession and their careers, a reflection deserves to be conducted and deepened. This legislation also changes the profession of midwives by giving them greater flexibility in prescribing work stoppages and allowing them to monitor sexually transmitted infections of spouses. As for physiotherapists, their ability to prescribe will be expanded. The bill aims to increase the attractiveness and availability of hospital practitioners' positions by simplifying the recruitment process and the creation of positions within an HHT. It puts an end to the excesses of the HPST law by rehabilitating the role of the care service. Too long relegated to the background, the latter appeared even more acutely during the health crisis, as the necessary scale of proximity for healthcare teams and patients. The management and governance of health facilities will now be more flexible, but also eco-responsible, preventive and participatory. This is progress for social and health democracy. It will also be a matter of better regulation of medical temporary care, which is costly for our health care system, and of putting an end to its excesses. During the work of the commission, the working Republic group defended advances aimed at facilitating the involvement of volunteers, particularly involved in health facilities during the health crisis. Finally, the approaches of persons with disabilities will be simplified, not to mention those of their caregivers and legal representatives. We include in the text provisions for a national digital platform for single access to information and personalized support. This platform will have to meet accessibility and interoperability requirements. In our view, it was essential to include these objectives in the text. By amendment, we will also propose other developments, such as the expansion of the competences of other health professionals, the participation of the National Union of Health Professionals in the work of the National Committee on Interprofessional Cooperation, the fight against conflicts of interest, the coherence of the managerial project and the social project, and the consideration of the quality of life of interns and students in hospital. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, through this text, we are giving concrete expression to the hopes of the health sector and we are helping to give new impetus to our care system through trust and simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u139	The continuation of the general discussion was postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1097.u140	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification. The meeting is adjourned.
