ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u1	The next item is the questions on the theme: "What answers during and after the crisis of the Covid-19 to improve health security? » Before we begin our work, I would remind you that the sanitary rules you know naturally continue to apply: cleaning the Chamber before and after each sitting, and microphones during the sitting; Speakers are encouraged not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones; distances between participants must be respected; the entrances and exits are staggered. Finally, let me remind you that speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u2	"We have a simple message for all countries: test, test, test. Since the intervention of the Director General of WHO – World Health Organization – on March 16th, the directive is clear in the face of covid -19: you have to test. However, delays have been accumulating since the beginning of the crisis, so much so that the screening policy seems to be very vague. The shortages of reagents and swabs, from the first few weeks, forced you to reserve the tests for serious cases, for caregivers, and finally for EHPAD residents. On 28 April, the Prime Minister finally announced that we would have 700000 virological tests per week from 11 May and that we would be able to test all people with symptoms, as well as contact cases. However, the figures show that France has never exceeded 150,000 tests per week. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, do we have sufficient capacity to meet the announced target of 700000 weekly tests? Are our territorial network and our organization sufficiently adapted? In this connection, I would like to pay tribute to the organisation which has been set up in the Hautes-Pyrénées and throughout Occitanie, with the mobilization of liberal professionals to set up the covid -19 centres. But what about the national level? The mobilization of laboratories other than hospital facilities was very gradual, if not late. Why not request more research laboratories, which can be requisitioned since April 5, 2020? Finally, the screening policy is based not only on virological tests, but also on serological tests. The knowledge of antibodies is beginning to become clearer. However, the national deconfining protocol has ruled out the use of serological tests; Are they permanently abandoned by the public authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u3	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u4	As you recalled, the strategy implemented by the Government is the detection of suspected covid-19 cases and contact cases. This is an essential element in ensuring the safety of our citizens and preventing any further significant circulation of the virus. This offensive strategy is based on the triptych announced in this House by the Prime Minister: protecting, testing and isolating. In order to break transmission chains as quickly as possible, the management route consists of three axes: firstly, to organize the screening of any person with symptoms of covid-19 and any person identified as having been in contact with a contaminated person; Second, to implement a robust contact case-finding system, allowing for rapid identification of the maximum number of infected persons; thirdly, initiate measures to isolate confirmed cases and contact cases identified as at risk as early as possible. We have asked all the players in the health system – whom I would like to thank here – to implement this chain of care as efficiently and as quickly as possible. This chain has already identified, since the release of the containment, several situations of cluster cases – also known as clusters – that are monitored on a daily basis. This demonstrates our ability to quickly diagnose new cases at any point in our territory, trace potential contacts and isolate anyone exposed to the risk of virus transmission. You're asking me the number of tests identified; You have seen that there has been a lag in the application of the text introducing these reports. In four days, we were able to carry out more than 150,000 tests. These figures are being consolidated and within a few days we will have the consolidation of this first week of tests; They are effective throughout the territory, including overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u5	Away from the 700000!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u6	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u7	The crisis that we have been going through since the discovery of this new coronavirus has taken hold of us with a speed and magnitude that no one could have foreseen. However, the exceptional nature of this pandemic must not cause us to forget that warning signs should have alerted us for several years already. Epidemic episodes of SARS – severe acute respiratory syndrome – in 2003 in China, and MERS – Middle East respiratory syndrome – in 2012 in the Middle East, demonstrated the emerging danger of coronavirus. Once these epidemic episodes were stopped, unfortunately, we did not continue our research efforts, thus depriving us of the knowledge that would be very useful to us today. In general, research on infectious diseases has been set aside in recent years; the industrialists, who thought they were no longer on the agenda, did not invest it. In reality, there are many emerging viruses – Ebola, zika and chikungunya. In France, we also know dengue, which is particularly prevalent in the ultramarine territories. Even though the covid-19 epidemic is far from over, it is urgent to realize that it will certainly not be the last. We must anticipate the emergence of new viruses and diseases from now on. Madam Secretary of State, what do you think of the creation of a research agency on infectious diseases? Some imagine, among other things, transforming the current National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis – ANRS – by broadening its scope of action. This agency should necessarily be accompanied by recurrent and significant funding, which allows for in-depth and time-compatible studies. It should also be based on constant links between the actors in basic research and those in the field, in the first place the CHU – university hospital centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u9	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to highlight the research effort in a health crisis that has been conducted since January 2020. The mobilization of all research actors, in laboratories, hospitals and administrations, has been unprecedented. I would like to share a few observations about the anticipation and responsiveness we have collectively shown in this area, before we see how we can do better in the future. My point concerns three areas: scientific coordination, project financing and regulatory responsiveness. Scientific coordination has been entrusted to the REACTing consortium – Research and action targeting emerging infectious diseases – which has been alerting itself in a week from 6 January 2020 to ensure the sharing of scientific information on the epidemic and to coordinate scientific research. This multidisciplinary and multi-institutional consortium, coordinated by INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – under the aegis of Aviesan – National Alliance for Life and Health Sciences, had already demonstrated its effectiveness at the time of the chikungunya epidemics in 2013, zika in 2015 and Ebola in 2018-2020. It brought together thirty-five research teams at the beginning of the crisis; He now coordinates fifty-five of them. It is an invaluable force to have a coordinated network of teams and laboratories of excellence, with proven experience of collaboration, both in preparation and in crisis response. This enabled the research teams to be ready for the various national and European calls launched in March. It is important to highlight the very rapid launch of national calls. I am thinking in particular of the Flash call of the National Research Agency – ANR – which has supported more than eighty projects and which remains open, as well as the call of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which has enabled, in two waves, to select nearly fifty applied research projects for a maximum commitment of EUR 31 million. These projects involve clinical trials, but also epidemiological research on studies involving new organizations, both in the city and in institutions. Finally, I would like to welcome the reactivity of regulatory actors. Administrative delays are often referred to; With regard to the launch of studies, particularly research, the time limit in force during the crisis is one week, and it is always internationally competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u10	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u11	An unprecedented study, conducted by the Department of Medicine at Oxford University, confirms that certain pathologies such as diabetes or obesity play a crucial role in the worsening of covid-19 disease. This is confirmed by different scientists in France. The link is shown: the impact of endocrine disruptors is major in patients with covid-19. On 12 May 2020, associations and the anti-pesticid mayors' collective requested the Council of State to suspend, as a matter of urgency, texts setting the minimum distance between pesticide and housing application areas, as well as derogations from it. We also know the chronic impacts of these toxic products on our health and that of our children; studies are under way on the many cancer cases that result from these studies. I recall objective 4 of candidate Emmanuel Macron's road map: "Protecting the health and environment of the French. I read: "Prevention must become the cardinal value of health policy in France. In this context, environmental health will be a five-year priority. This objective must be reflected in all areas: agriculture, food, endocrine disruptor products, transport, heating, etc. " The global epidemic of chronic diseases has been largely ignored or underestimated by WHO and its Member States. This is the main challenge we all face on a large scale. Who knows among his neighbors, his loved ones, his family, someone who died of cancer, stroke, stroke, respiratory or cardiac problems? It is precisely when we have to deal with the disease or chronic suffering, ourselves or through relatives, that we realize that environmental health is in fact a matter that concerns everyone. Voices are rising all over the world to demand sustainable recovery plans. The current crisis must be an opportunity to reinvent a more resilient society in the face of future shocks. Madam Secretary of State, can you assure us that France will be among the many voices saying that environmental health is a priority of the 21st century? Will you support the motion for a resolution that I will table with several of my fellow Members?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u12	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u13	As you know, the High Council for Public Health – HCSP – has indeed considered that certain pathologies were risk factors for serious forms of covid-19. The Government's strategy during the crisis, and more broadly since 2017, is to prevent the emergence of chronic diseases such as diabetes or obesity, particularly as part of the prevention priority plan. Environmental health is an integral part of this comprehensive prevention strategy. All the levers for action must be mobilised to achieve the ambitious goal of a non-toxic environment for health, according to the One Health approach – a planet, a health. With regard specifically to endocrine disruptors, France is one of the first European countries to have implemented a national strategy. The European Commission published in November 2018 a contribution on its strategy to minimize the exposure of Europeans to endocrine disruptors. France welcomed the progress made, but called on the Commission to strengthen certain aspects of this strategy. The ministries in charge of health and ecological transition have launched the national strategy on endocrine disruptors 2019-2022, around three axes: first, to train and inform, in particular health professionals – endocrine disruptors are one of the priority objectives in the field of continuing education; Second, to protect the environment and the population; Third, accelerate research on the detection capabilities of endocrine disruptors, as well as the links between endocrine disruptors and pathologies, and develop a clinical approach. Finally, we will have to learn the lessons of this crisis in the development of the future national environmental health plan, called "My Environment, My Health" and scheduled for this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u14	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u15	It will not surprise you that I am asking you about the regional health agencies, Madam Secretary of State, because I have denounced, before the parliamentary committee of inquiry on equal access to the care of the French throughout the territory, the technocratic, outmoded, overstated character of the ARS – not all, since things have gone well in some of them, and I am obviously not talking about the Great East, where the Government has assumed its responsibilities. The work of my department's branch has been satisfactory, but the same cannot be said at the regional level – my colleague here perhaps remembers a meeting cancelled at the last minute when it had to be a question of strategy. In the face of a tragedy like that of the covid, it is necessary to react and it is better that the technostructure is not imposed. But I regret once again – and you have nothing to do with it, Madam Secretary of State, because you have not created the RSAs or those that preceded them, the regional hospital agencies – that technostructure has been imposed. First example: when the Prime Minister – I asked him about the questions to the Government and I know our colleague Jeanine Dubié attentive in this matter – decided to allow family visits to the EHPADs, an 18-page form was sent to the directors of these institutions. And yet the local elected representatives were not even contacted: they were just informed that the visits would take place outside, behind a plastic protection, and that it would be necessary to manage in the event of rain – but let's move on to this detail. Second illustration: I was affected by covid-19, both personally and professionally, since I have a health profession. We have established referral and diagnostic centres, based on the premise that it is best not to contaminate medical offices or burden emergencies. Fifteen days later, we received a visit whose purpose was to verify the compliance of this centre! It's amazing! I don't even mention the masks or serology tests that some departments wanted to deploy. It is time to put an end to the dyarchies, even the triarchies. It is up to the Prefect to have all the prerogatives of the RSA. It goes for the Government of efficiency and responsiveness!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u16	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u17	I know your commitment on this subject, Mr Vigier. Since the onset of the coronavirus crisis, ARS has been on the front line. They mobilized very early. For example, the epidemic would have arrived in France at the beginning of February without the action of the ARS at Contamines-Montjoie. Very quickly, she set up a screening centre there and was responsible for finding all cases of contact through a thorough investigation. More than 100 people had been tested and schools had been closed as a preventive measure. Targeted containment of contact cases was also decided. The role of SRAs remains essential to isolate contact cases in the event of a home. With regard to coordination with the ARS, Olivier Véran has brought together all the directors each week, and coordination points between departments are organised every evening. As far as crisis management is concerned, the SRAs contribute to the management of an exceptional health situation under the authority of the prefect – who also says prefect elected local and local authorities. Several perspectives are promising: first of all, the SRAs do not have the same scope of competence as the prefect and the department. After the crisis, I agree with you, honourable Member, that the role of departmental delegates will have to be reviewed so that they are more in contact with all the elected representatives. Parliamentary work will take place on this subject. I have no doubt that you will contribute actively; We will be attentive to the proposals that will result from this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u18	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u19	The epidemic crisis would not have become the health crisis if, in the past two years, the Government had taken into account the mobilization of caregivers. They would not have dealt with the crisis in insufficient numbers, in lack of facilities and beds, and in addition poorly paid. They paid the heaviest price: more than 40,000 of them were contaminated. This is the result of fifteen years of policies during which we talked about modernity, reorganization, profitability, mutualisation – in short, all the pretexts were good for reducing the resources allocated to the public hospital. My question – hoping that we don't have to deal with a second wave in July – applies to future health crises: do you really think, Madam Secretary of State, that a differentiated premium of 1500 euros is a satisfactory answer? What do you say about the fact that caregivers do not receive the same bonus depending on their region, occupation or whether they are in EHPAD or not? Yesterday, Mr.Véran explained that they had to be better paid: yes! But do you think it is normal that this increase should be conditioned by flexibility, by the challenge of the legal framework of work, by the rise in skills – as if the skills had been questioned during this crisis! Could we not decide once and for all that all caregivers deserve to be better paid, barring and unconditional? Finally, yes to additional beds, means and recruitments but again, not to choices that would reduce such public spending to supposedly allow the hospital to live better. This is not the answer the French are waiting for. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u20	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u21	It is a vast and beautiful subject, which Agnès Buzyn had already seized with the plan "My Health 2022". It was agreed that this ambitious project would take time, but that needs required an urgent response. This response first consisted, during the period prior to confinement, of preparing the hospital system, in particular increasing the number of resuscitation beds, and mobilising a health reserve. The health system as a whole, whether it be city medicine or the classical hospital, public or private structures, has given the crisis a response that meets the expectations of our fellow citizens. The system has worked and we have not, as in other countries, had to choose between patients to be hospitalized. How can we ensure that caregivers are successful and happy at work? This is the whole purpose of the reorganization work initiated within the framework of the Ségur de la santé which the Minister of Solidarity and Health will open on 25 May. You are asking me, honourable Member, whether the increase in remuneration will be significant: the issue of compensation can be addressed from three different angles. Wages, first of all: beyond bonuses, we must work on an increase in wages, to which the minister has committed himself. Second angle: the organization of work. Many nurses are forced to work extra hours, in fact illegal. It is therefore necessary to increase the remuneration of hospital employees so that these jobs are attractive and that the professionals concerned can live in good conditions. Third angle, finally: the valorisation of collective work. All this work will be carried out in connection with all the trade unions and employers' organisations and hospital federations, but also the parliamentarians – a work that I have no doubt you will mention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u22	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u23	My question is about children's homes of a social nature, the situation of which is particularly dramatic. Nearly 300,000 children are covered by protection or follow-up under the ESA, Child Welfare; A number of them are placed in shelters. The management of the covid-19 crisis has been harsh and has highlighted the lack of specialized educators and staff in these structures, which exacerbates tensions and risks of violence, endangers the respect for barrier actions, while the supervision of these minors must be ensured and activities offered to them. Educators are understaffed and describe moments of violence that are increasingly difficult to manage: this is the warning that a psychologist, a member of the association SOS Enfants enfants situés, is sending us. This promiscuity is difficult to reconcile with the public health imperative, especially in sites that do not have outdoor gardens, whereas a clearly established sanitary protocol was already lacking at the beginning of confinement. Of course, the lack of masks and hygiene products has hampered the work of educators. The effect of the March ordinances was to considerably ease the reception conditions for children under ESA, allowing up to 120% occupancy for vulnerable audiences requiring strong support. The inadequacy of the number of educators and the need to reduce the organisation of work and to pool the teams were only compensated by the tremendous generosity of our fellow citizens, of whom nearly 2500 volunteered. While containment and the need to resume economic activity are combined, there are major concerns about compliance with health regulations in these facilities. What does the Government intend to do to improve the situation? Is an offensive recruitment and funding plan planned across the country to help those children who are among the poorest?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u24	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u25	The children under ESA deserve our full attention and you are right to raise this issue. My colleague Adrien Taquet is in constant contact with associations and departments on this subject. At the outset, I would like to commend the work of the departments and the staff of the child welfare structures, who are working tirelessly to meet the needs of children every day. Clear health guidelines were issued for institutions and foster families from the beginning of the crisis. All the crisis adaptation instructions for the child protection sector were sent from the first days of the epidemic, along with a letter to all the departmental councils, in order to recall the common doctrines and measures to be applied. With regard to the lack of staff, it should be recalled that, as a result of the closure of schools, children in the home had to be kept in institutions, thanks to the mobilization of child protection professionals who had continued to work on a daily basis in order to ensure educational continuity. In addition, Mr. Taquet has put in place numerous measures to ensure that these children have access to digital technology so that they can continue their courses. When the number of professionals proved to be insufficient, I mobilized a social reserve: students, future social workers, have thus strengthened child protection institutions and shelters in order to compensate for the absence of professionals forced to stay at home to keep their own children. I'm going to the deconfination measures. A guide to recommendations was distributed at the end of the confinement to all child protection actors. It gives priority to the resumption of face-to-face schooling, so that ESA children do not suffer from a significant school delay. Other measures planned include the gradual resumption of the rights of access to the media and the right of accommodation of parents, in connection with the child's educational reference, an assessment of the impact of confinement on children's mental health and the management of possible disorders. There's still work to be done, but know that Mr. Taquet is at your disposal to talk about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u26	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u27	The health crisis that we are going through is a strong demonstration of France's dependence and industrial fragility, where the state must guarantee the health security of its citizens. The reality has illustrated the blatant dependence of European manufacturers and consumers on outsourced production, particularly Chinese. The destructuring of the economic fabric has increased the fragility of European industry, unable to meet the basic needs of the population, in particular in terms of protection masks. Since the economy is organized according to ultraliberal dogma, the concentration of industrial activities occurs in areas where labour law is the most advantageous for financial profitability. You have to produce at a lower cost, even at the other end of the world! The crisis associated with the covid-19 pandemic highlighted the negative effects of this liberal vision of the economy. The combination of a health crisis and an economic crisis places the principle of the strategic state at the top of the list of priorities: the state must be able to define and list what is essential for our health. For example, it is essential to be able to produce masks, blouses, charlottes, breathing apparatus and medical oxygen locally. Strategic nationalizations must be carried out in these key companies in order to plan production according to a single human need and not a financial imperative. This health crisis has revealed the limits and dangers of such a functioning. How can we explain that we were able to witness, at the heart of the sixth world power, surrealistic scenes to overcome the lack of anticipation of the state? How can we explain that some hospitals, which lack protection for their healthcare staff, have had to carry out bosses and have recourse to voluntary dressmakers? How can we explain that first line caregivers had to use outdated masks for lack of better? How can we explain that the state has not chosen to nationalise Luxfer, the only European Union company to manufacture gas bottles, when the risk of shortage was high? It is urgent to learn all the lessons of this crisis and to announce concrete measures to reduce France's industrial dependence. It is necessary to attach the words to the words, since the Minister of Economy and Finance intends to "use all the instruments to protect French companies" – and to add: "it can go through recapitalisations, it can go through equity acquisitions, I can even use the term nationalisation if necessary".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u28	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u29	We can be proud of the mobilization of French industry in this crisis. There is no need for requisitions or nationalizations for this. We have acted in the strategist state by asking the industry to turn to new productions, accompanying it in the rise in charge of these, by organizing a consortium of the country's four largest industrial companies to produce breathers, by innovating with the textile industry, by developing, within 15 days, washable masks with guaranteed filtration that our neighbours are becoming, by converting a French supplier of cotton-tiges into a producer of swabs for testing, by multiplying by six the production of surgical masks and FFP2. But you are right, honourable Member, these are crisis actions, not anticipation. The second aspect that we must now deploy is the takeover of our industrial and European sovereignty. We anticipated this question: you referred to Bruno Le Maire's remarks, but there were also actions, such as the mission entrusted to Mr Jacques Biot by Mrs Agnès Buzyn, to analyse the causes of drug shortages, or the work carried out by the Strategic Council of Health Industries to accelerate the relocation and relocation of drug production sites and medical devices in France. The vision of this policy is not only about the cost of health, it is also industrial, because we now know that there is no global logistics available at any time. In times of crisis, we must be able to count on France, Europe and our industries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u30	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u31	Let's talk about anticipation, as you invited us to do, Madam Secretary of State: the crisis of the covid-19 highlighted the strategic issue of means and capacities for the storage and distribution of medical equipment and medicines by state operators. Extreme tensions at the height of the crisis have shown that the shortcomings are not only cyclical. Failure to respond to the urgent needs of care facilities may occur at any time. That is why the Communist MEPs consider that the immediate increase in the means to combat serious health threats is a requirement. We plead for the reactivation of the health emergency preparedness and response facility, the EPRUS, which, created in 2007, disappeared less than ten years later in the merger that gave birth to Santé publique France. The specific and decisive tasks of this establishment were thus drowned: the management of the means of control, human with the health reserve as material with the purchase and storage of products, medicines and protective equipment, proved to be much less reactive. Fully resettled in its missions, the EPRUS could be supported by a public program for the production and distribution of essential medicines and medical equipment, which we propose to develop. The operators of the State, in particular the General Agency for Health Equipment and Products – AGEPS – and the military pharmacy, would be responsible for launching this consolidated programme, as my colleague Bruneel has just indicated, by specialised companies, those in the process of liquidation – a peak! – such as Famar and Luxfer, or those that the public authorities could requisition. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Madam Secretary of State, is such an answer in your mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u33	The law of 5 March 2007 on the preparation of the health system for large-scale health threats created the EPRUS, whose mission was to manage the means to combat serious health threats, whether they are human with the health reserve, as you recalled, or material with the products and services. In 2016, Santé publique France was created by merging the Institut de vieille santé – InVS –, the Institut national de prévention et d'éducation pour la santé – INPES – and the EPRUS. The meeting did not change the response missions to health threats, alerts and crises. Public Health France's mission, as the EPRUS had it, is to acquire, manufacture, import and distribute products and services necessary for the protection of the population in the face of serious health threats. To this end, it is responsible for managing stocks of processing products acquired or entrusted by the State. In view of the crisis we have just been through, who could say that the current organisation does not deserve to be re-examined to better prepare for future crises? But I wouldn't want to make the French believe that centralizing logistics on a large scale is simple. As seen during Hurricane Irma or major disasters, projecting resources and means is particularly complex. There is no doubt that we need to review this organization. Feedback will help us to answer your completely legitimate question, which must not be limited to repeating what we have already done, but requires a more comprehensive review of our entire response strategy. We invite you to make proposals in the course of the parliamentary work which will certainly be launched on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u34	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u35	Our country is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, as our generations had never experienced. Containment slowed the epidemic and prevented hospitals from being overwhelmed by an unsustainable threshold of activity; as for partial unemployment, covering – without exception – 84% of the net wage, it has allowed the maintenance of many jobs, unlike other European countries, and has protected the health of workers. We are now in a new phase: if telework is to continue to be promoted where possible, many activities must resume. In order to relaunch our country, we must allow everyone to resume their activities, while ensuring health security. To this end, the Ministry of Labour has drawn up records for each occupation, so that the recovery takes place under the best conditions. These trade cards accompany companies and protect employees and employers alike. As a result, many companies were able to reopen as early as 11 May, including hairdressers, who were very busy after a two-month confinement. The worksheets were drawn up in consultation with the trade unions and employers' organizations; However, home helpers challenge them and other professions are waiting for them. These cards are essential for the recovery of the economy and for the protection of all. How can we ensure that the entire population becomes aware of it and respects all the barrier actions attached to each profession?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u36	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u37	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the protection of the French has been the priority of the Government's action. The protection of employees has been the main issue in the pursuit of economic activity. After making general recommendations, the Ministry of Labour installed, from the first days of confinement, a cell dedicated to the formalization of specific recommendations for certain sectors of activity or occupations, in order to adapt the barrier gestures and physical distancing measures to the working environment, so that the latter could be carried out safely. The fact sheets, drawn up by experts, are systematically submitted to the representative social partners, who may make remarks. The preparation of the home help sheet followed the same process and was the subject of a consultation. At the same time, some professional sectors have themselves taken up the issue and have been at the initiative of drafting sectoral guides, most often co-built with the social partners in the sectors concerned. The expert panel may study these guides and authorize, if they are in accordance with government recommendations, their publication on the website of the Ministry of Labour. Their development requires a number of exchanges with professionals in order to ensure that they comply with the Government's recommendations and take into account the social dialogue and the imperative of health rules. On 11 May, sixty job files were available on the Ministry of Labour's website, along with a national deconfining protocol for companies and employees, which contains the recommendations applicable to companies for masks, tests, gauges for the reception of premises, cleaning and organisation to work safely and prevent the spread of the virus. All these documents are, of course, the subject of consultation with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and are widely disseminated. We invite professionals to study these guides and to engage in social dialogue with their organisation, so that each employee returns to work in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u38	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u39	Several days ago the deconfination began and with him resumed the activities of real life. We've found the way back to work, like some of the kids at school. The shops have also reopened. It's life that's coming back. The Government has chosen to trust the French and French to apply health precautions and to protect themselves and others from the threat that is still on our heads. Yes, the shadow of the virus is still there: as long as there is no treatment or vaccine, we will not be out of it. Age is subject to the contraction of a serious form of illness, but the Government has chosen not to discriminate on the basis of age. I welcome this decision. In this period, questions surround the place that grandparents can take in society and the family: can they keep their grandchildren? Family logistics has become complex, and parents need to rely on them. I recommend family consultation for the organization of these guards. Madam Secretary of State, what are the ins and outs of the chains of contamination? What are the precautions to be taken within the home to ensure that the decisions that will be taken are fully informed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u40	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u41	Madam Member, I know your mobilization and have read your gallery carefully in Le Journal du dimanche, in which you stressed the role of grandparents in this period of debunking. This role is crucial for both children and grandchildren and for the family as a whole. But it should not be forgotten that children can transmit covid-19, even if they are less ill. We recommend that children not be entrusted to their grandparents, as they are the most vulnerable to this disease. Even if you feel healthy, it is recommended that you remain very vigilant. Age is indeed an aggravating factor in the face of the virus: in France, more than nine people who died of covid -19 out of ten were over sixty-five years old. It is therefore not advisable to receive your grandchildren at home. Nevertheless, with deconfinity, we need to re-establish family ties: in order to do so, we have advocated the respect of barrier gestures. You asked me to call them back. In case of visits by grandchildren, we invite to avoid contact with them and to practice barrier gestures with special attention. As a reminder, children with covid-19 are often asymptomatic carriers of the virus, with no symptoms of the disease. However, they remain contagious and may be at risk of contamination. Observance of barrier actions in the presence of children can be difficult. As a precautionary measure, contact with them should therefore be kept to a minimum. If they go to their grandparents' homes, make sure that they wash their hands when they arrive, and that the accompanying adult wears a mask, as well as his grandparents. Contact should also be avoided and physical distancing maintained. Before leaving, the child must wash his hands again; Those who have received it at home must clean up every place where the child and the accompanying adult have gone. This is the implementation of the barrier actions, which will ensure the widest possible prevention among our most vulnerable audiences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u42	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u43	The pandemic has tested all health systems. The French system is known as one of the best in the world. He has demonstrated an extraordinary ability to adapt and a level of excellence that many of our neighbours feel. An article published on March 26 in the New York Times describes him as one of the best in the world. Some concrete examples of French achievements since the beginning of the epidemic: the rapid increase in the number of places in resuscitation; the organisation of resuscitation services; the system of transfer of patients under respirator; the requisition of doctors. However, while the health crisis has not made our health system bend – which we must welcome – it has updated its flaws, making it absolutely necessary to accelerate its transformation in order to guarantee health security, which has made the strength and reputation of the French health model. I would like to stress the specific subject of emergencies, which are usually said to be emblematic of the dysfunctions of the health system as a whole, of which they are the bottleneck, while it is under increasing pressure. Increase in the number of patients, saturation of regulation – whose call centres are overcrowded – and lack of emergency doctors: these findings are known. The health crisis has led to a rapid reorganization of emergencies. It has also changed the behaviour of the French, who have gone far less to the emergencies than in the usual period, respecting the recommendations of the health authorities in this regard. As a result, the emergency services have focused on their initial tasks of caring for patients whose health status is likely to endanger their lives or the normal functioning of their organs – it is important to recall – and not to compensate for the lack of hospital places, healthcare services in EHPADs or general practitioners. Madam Secretary of State, what lessons does the Government intend to learn from the crisis specifically with regard to emergencies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u45	Madam January, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to point out that emergencies have indeed been at the forefront of crisis management. The work done prior to confinement, including the blue plan and the white plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u46	And now the red plane!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u47	... which plans to suspend the planned operations in order to free up places to transform them into places of resuscitation, has made it possible to provide a health response to the crisis of the covid-19 for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Work for the hospital has been under way since the beginning of the quinquennium. Unlike previous governments, we have reversed the trend in health spending, including by reinvigorating investment in hospitals. The President of the Republic has been very clear: we will increase remuneration and work on an ambitious investment plan, with a view to initiating a profound transformation of everything that does not pull the hospital up. This is the meaning of last weekend's announcement by the Minister of Solidarity and Health of a Health Security. On 25 May, all the representatives concerned will be around the table, in order to identify the points to be improved. This work has been started. In the crisis, the hospital has shown that if it is allowed to do so, it can adapt and perform miracles. When we look at the numbers, we find that we do not have to blush in our health care system. I hope – we all hope – that this confidence will continue. We will conduct a national consultation, involving the social partners and hospital collectives. On the other hand, we have never stopped working with parliamentarians, who are very invested in this matter. We will have to work together to find solutions, starting from the ground and the needs of health professionals, those of emergencies and other services. Thanks to this work, we will find suitable solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u48	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u49	The health crisis that we are going through is forcing us to reinvent our way of life and interact with each other in our everyday lives. We need to learn to live with the virus – meaning "with the right reflexes of health practice". The Government has implemented numerous measures to ensure health security throughout the national territory and to help to reorganize accordingly. I will address this subject from the perspective of the resumption of activity at school under the 2S2C device – sport, health, culture, civics – and the future open school announced by Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer. The success of these two devices will depend on the good learning by children of health reflexes and hygiene rules. The players in the ecosystem of sport and associative life have drawn up good practice guides adapted to their specificities. Some have even developed a prevention module to make children aware of the problem from an early age, with a view to improving the fight against the spread of the virus. By teaching children the health reflexes to adopt within the framework of the 2S2C labeled activities, each of the actors involved – parents, educators and children – will be able to address these long-awaited moments of collective life as serenely as possible, and consider the resumption of a sports practice in an amateur club on the way back to school, as well as summer sports courses. Another advantage of such an educational module is that it provides everyone with a common knowledge, combining inequalities and risks. Madam Secretary of State, has the Government considered the implementation of such a mandatory common module, so that every child knows how to adopt the right behaviours to protect themselves and others? In addition, the health rules require the use of expanded spaces. We know that the territories are unequally equipped with sports and cultural facilities. Is it possible, in departments located in the red zone, to obtain a derogation to use parks and gardens for this purpose?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u51	The Ministry of National Education and Youth, as well as the Ministry of Sports and the sports movement, are engaged in joint work to support the gradual resumption of activity by offering physical and sports education activities to students. This offer will be part of the 2S2C system, jointly announced by Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer and Ms. Roxana Maracananu. Since 11 May, the sports movement has been offering, in conjunction with local elected representatives, an adapted range of activities. The activities concerned must address a twofold challenge: to allow classes to be organized into small groups, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to make the link between physical fitness and health education. The organisation of activities is based on the general health doctrine, as well as on the specific protocol of national education and the accompanying guides for the resumption of sports activities, drawn up by the federations at the initiative of the Minister of Sports and validated by the Ministry of Health. The idea of a mandatory "sport-prevention" module is interesting, but remains dependent on the available and mobilizable associative offer, depending on the context of the course resumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u52	Who will pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u53	What matters is what happens next. The increased practice of sport in schools must improve the preparation of future generations for a pandemic such as that we know. A more active France is a healthier France – we share it here. With regard to the red-zone departments, the action you are proposing to take is not on the agenda, Mrs Colboc. To answer your question, no derogation is envisaged for the resumption of sports and cultural activity in the school environment. We must continue to work with local and regional authorities on this issue, with a view to moving towards a new stage of deconfination, which we have wanted gradually. We will have to take a decision on this in the next few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u54	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u55	My question concerns the health brigades dedicated to the fight against covid -19. Announced here by the Prime Minister on 28 April, they were formed following the adoption on 11 May of the law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. This mechanism is part of the Government's strategy – to protect, test, isolate – and our shared desire to break the chain of contamination as soon as possible, by contacting people with coronavirus, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by informing people around them that they are potentially contaminated, in order to encourage them to isolate themselves and be tested. Of course, we have only a few days of hindsight on this device. However, it is essential that the national representation has concrete information on its implementation and operational deployment. First, is the health insurance database "Contact covid" operational? In other words, are the information collected by the general practitioners and transmitted to the health insurance brigades operational? Secondly, can you confirm that every department now has a health unit to identify people with coronavirus and thus prevent the emergence of new outbreaks of infection? Do we have figures on the number of staff mobilized, the number of tests carried out and the number of people placed in isolation? Thirdly, how can we reassure our fellow citizens that they have in front of them a health brigade and not impostors who could attack vulnerable people? In our ridings, a few people have expressed concern about this. Finally, the decision of the Constitutional Council of 11 May 2020 restricts access to personal health data to health insurance personnel, which raises difficulties, particularly in my department of Hauts-de-Seine, where the isolation support unit cannot function properly due to lack of information. How to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u57	Article 11 of the Act extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions was debated and amended in Parliament last week. This is a transitional arrangement designed to ensure the success of the deconfining strategy. Our only objective is to prevent and protect people who have been in contact with a positive person, to identify the risks of spreading the epidemic and to avoid the re-establishment of strict containment measures applied to the population as a whole. Health brigades responsible for tracing contacts of covid-19 infected patients will be organized into three levels. The first is the treating physician; the second is the health insurance, which has employees responsible for finding contact cases;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u58	There's the initial case: who infected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u59	... the third is formed by the Regional Health Agency, as I mentioned earlier in answering Mr. Philippe Vigier's question on clusters. We have taken note of the concerns regarding respect for medical confidentiality. No information other than those to determine whether or not someone is a contact case will be collected. Of course, neither will the nature of the contact be collected. Moreover, the health insurance, as part of its daily relations with doctors, already has many personal health data. Non-care workers who will be mobilised already have access to them as part of their missions. No sensitive medical data is intended to be shared outside the limits of this work. Data on a person suffering from, for example, a long-term condition, or requesting a stoppage of work, are already included in the health insurance file. Finally, personal data collected by its information systems for these purposes may not be retained after three months from their collection. We will never repeat this enough: this mechanism is indispensable to combat the epidemic in a context of deconfinity. It respects individual freedoms, in accordance with the guarantees offered by the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. Finally, it complies with the requirements of medical ethics, which have involved specialists in its development. Last week, the Minister of Solidarity and Health visited the Rhône department to detail the follow-up and progress of this work. The device, which has been in operation for a few days, is operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u60	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u61	I will formulate my questions from the point of view of the chosen field that I am, in order to make known the way in which the health crisis is experienced in my territory. We first had to make up for the lack of anticipation. I will never thank enough the companies that have agreed to give up their masks and superblouse reserves, as well as those that have made them. Without them, our caregivers would have stayed for long weeks without protection to fight covid-19. I do not forget the caregivers, or those who assist in the work of caregivers, such as hospital workers and paramedics, as well as those who surround the most vulnerable. We then had to answer the questions of those who were forced to close their office, without any prospect of reopening it, and of those who, as well as evil, maintained home visits and remote consultations. We also had to respond to pharmacists, who had been so upset during the crisis, who had so many times been forced to respond negatively to the demands for masks, or to distribute them sparingly, before finding that they were on sale in large areas while still lacking them. Madam Secretary of State, how can we never see such a shortage of protective materials again? The other issue I want to address is the care given to the other patients, who have been tertified by official speeches, no longer daring to go to their treating doctor or hospital for fear of being contaminated. What about private clinics, long, almost empty and useless, when they could have served so much? When their doctors wanted to resume scheduled operations, they were advised not to do so, particularly because of the lack of products used for anesthesia. What is the damage to the deprogramming of care? Today, there are five times as many emergency calls due to non-use of care, or delayed recourse, than because of a suspicion of covid -19! Did you have to deprogram so much? How can we ensure better coordination between care teams? How to reprogram better and faster?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u63	Our recommendations for barrier actions and organization have evolved as the crisis unfolded, because since January, we have adapted systematically, almost daily, to the evolution of knowledge about this virus, whether it is in Phase 1, Phase 2, containment or deconfinition. To avoid a shortage of drugs, we triggered the "white plan", which limits non-emergency care to free hospital beds and thereby increase the hospital's response capacity. Locally, it has been clear that city medicine, hospitals and private clinics have been able to collaborate: this coordination work will provide a basis for reflection, which will be engaged in the coming weeks, on the organization of territories in the field of health. With regard to access to care, the minister kept reminding that in times of confinement, there was a need to continue to consult his doctor, even if covid-19 was not present. More than a million teleconsultations took place during the crisis period: the French adapted this way to consult their doctor. For chronic diseases, we have done everything we can to ensure that the prescriptions are automatically renewed, but none of this will replace direct contact with each doctor, possibly by teleconsultation: the work in progress aims to help the French return to the path of the medical offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u64	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u65	One of the other essential weapons in the fight against the epidemic that we are going through is testing. However, our country is badly armed, when the countries that do best are those that have performed much more targeted tests. Our country had to deal with major malfunctions, and I wonder: why stopped following contact cases during confinement? Why are there so many PCR tests – Polymerase Chain Reaction – abnormally negative, which casts doubt on the quality of the samples? Why isn't laboratory testing capacity always fully utilized? Why are asymptomatic or paucisymptomatic forms insufficiently considered while patients may have pneumonitis? These uncertainties do not help us to remain calm. I hear worried doctors. You recommend testing the contact cases seven days after the initial positive case: therefore, we will detect those potentially infected by the initial case; But one forgets the person who infected the initial case, and who is a priori among the contacts. This person is certainly still positive on the first day: why not offer him immediate screening, not seven days later? Contacts of a patient whose diagnosis has been confirmed by a PCR test, serology or scanner will be contacted by Health Insurance. But it is very complicated to ask them to respect fourteen days of isolation without serious results. Why not establish rigorous protocols, with a questionnaire, and follow them systematically when the patient is sent by a doctor? Not only would such treatment inform us of the epidemiological level, it would also provide credibility to the physician and encourage the patient to respect the period of isolation. While the issue of masks seems finally to be resolved, is the Government ready to improve the testing policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u66	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u67	The testing strategy is one of the pillars of our containment exit plan: anyone with covid -19 symptoms, and anyone identified as having been in contact with a contaminated person, is tested. Diagnostic tests are also used in specific screening programs, as has been the case in EHPADs, for example, to better protect the most vulnerable people. One of the challenges in using diagnostic tests is to ensure that it is cost-effective. Science has taught us that a person can be contagious within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms; This is why we are looking for all contact cases within 48 hours in a symptomatic person. But you also know that one of the characteristics of this disease is that incubation lasts on average five to ten days: therefore, contact cases that might be in the incubation phase, if tested immediately, could obtain a falsely reassuring negative result. That is why we test them after seven days if they have not developed symptoms. You also stress the need for follow-up of these patients in isolation. This need has been anticipated. With regard to the questionnaire you are proposing, it is the doctor, the sickness insurance or the SRA who administers it, depending on the level at which the contact has been made. That's how we pull up the contamination chains. It is a matter of not leaving out any contact cases, to avoid the creation of new homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u68	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u69	I would like to pay tribute here to the voluntary commitment of all the French who spontaneously began to make paper or fabric masks for each of us, overblouses or hydro-alcoholic gel. The first masks finally arrived a few days ago, after the stocks set up by France until 2012 were not renewed. It is unquestionable today: it is essential to carry them in phases of deconfination; We could legitimately have avoided such a strict and long confinement if, at the height of the epidemic, each of us had been able to dispose of it on a daily basis. That is why I would be grateful if you would indicate to me, with a view to ending the crisis and before a possible return to the epidemic in the coming weeks or in the autumn, what measures the Government is taking to organize the supply of the French over the long term, but also to ensure our independence in this field, through the manufacture and purchase of masks in France. How will you assure the French companies that will manufacture them that they will find outlets, knowing that the French cost price will always be higher than that of Chinese or Indian masks for example? Can you assure us that our stocks will be reconstituted and usable?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u70	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u71	Thank you for this question, which will allow me to complete the answers given to Mr Bruneel. To equip us with means of protection in the future, we will first, you understand, increase and stabilize our production of guaranteed filtration textile masks and single-use sanitary masks. In particular, two weeks ago, we launched a call for expressions of interest in the raw material of FFP2 masks: this is where the bottleneck is now, more than in access to machines or in technology, which is not very complicated, which will allow new companies to enter the market. This call for expressions of interest will lead us to subsidise the installation of new production sites of this famous meltblown with a technique, electrospinning, which is not very widespread in France since we have only one supplier, whose capacities are currently reduced, even if we accompany its growth. In addition, we have four new entrants to the FFP2 surgical mask market, which allowed us to increase from 3.5 million masks produced per week to 20 million by the end of May; We have the ambition to reach 50 million masks a week in the course of October, with the entry into the market of new industrialists. We secure orders through Public Health France – I will announce with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, in a few hours, the conclusion of four new contracts. Public procurement plays its part, notably thanks to the UGAP – Union of Public Procurement Groups – like our private partners. We continue research on washable masks, in order to arrive at gradients equivalent to those of FFP2 masks or surgical masks. We're not far from it. The advantage of these washable masks is that the textile sector is less concentrated in a single country, but also that prices are more competitive. This answers one of your questions. In the medium term, we are working on dynamic inventory management; In addition to building a strategic stock, we must be able to open up new production capacities in our country. My European counterparts are taking a similar approach: we will work hand in hand to ensure European resilience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u72	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u73	The Minister of Health announces a plan for the hospital presented to the French very soon. While it is obvious to us all, in the wake of this crisis of the Covid-19, that the salaries of many hospital workers and caregivers are low, if not very low, and that their incomes are on average lower than those of caregivers in our European neighbours, we also find that the hospital must both relax its administrative functioning and return to a capacity to receive it in order to manage major health crises. Perhaps the example of the Sélestat hospital has shown us the way. Thanks to a resuscitation and intensive care service that has been closed for several years, but is still functioning, it has been able to supplement the major Alsatian hospital centres. In doing so, it may also indicate to us the path of our health independence, which must be regained. What would we have done if our German or Swiss neighbours, or if the French regions spared by the covid, had been as heavily affected as the Oise or the Haut-Rhin? My point is not to argue about the past. I am looking for a beginning of a response that will reassure our concerned compatriots about the evolution of our care system and about our health and hospital independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u74	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u75	During the crisis, the hospital showed that it knew how to adapt, and that it was necessary to trust its staff. As the Minister of Health said this weekend, the issue of compensation needs to be addressed, as I said earlier, and I will not go back to it. It has made a commitment: a national consultation will be held. The Ségur de la santé will meet on May 25. We would be wrong to oppose the directors of hospitals and doctors: it was because they worked together, in the service of the sick, that they were able to cope with the crisis. If this is possible during an epidemic, it must be possible on a daily basis! We were also told that little things can do a lot. There is a need to do a lot of work to relax regulations; In addition to the necessary financial resources, the minister also asked that we be informed, from the field, of the machinery to be used in order to improve the functioning of our health care system. Olivier Véran hoped that the plan for the hospital would be presented before the summer, so that everything that could be included in the next social security budget could be included. We don't need diagnostics: we know the situation. We must now find solutions and finance them. This is what will be done when the draft law on the financing of social security is debated in this House; on this occasion you will be able to make your proposals known to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u76	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u77	Questions were asked about the masks, about the tests, about the hospital; I would like to address the issue of prevention. The Republic has settled in France for a long time thanks to the Third Republic, and to a very strong State which, by means of quality public education, has also provided better hygiene and health for all. The hygienist current counted great names: Lavoisier, the prefect Poubelle or even Pasteur. At that time, health went hand in hand with innovation and ambition. Daily rituals were imposed, and a whole society discovered the gestures of hand washing and brushing of teeth. The school is the crucible of this Republic. How can we revive the hygienist current? How can we ensure that the gestures, which we have had to learn again in an emergency, become habits and remain so? So far, our country has been a bad student: it was thus ranked 50th, which is, to say the least, worrying, in the countries where we wash our hands the most. I would like to acknowledge the work of our colleagues Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Ericka Bareigts in the context of the mission on health prevention for young people. These have made a sad observation: the shortage of 400 school doctors – we count only 976 for more than 12 million students. Occupational medicine suffers from a similar shortage: the number of doctors does not reach 5000 for 18 million employees in the private sector. And I don't mention the very difficult fate of school nurses. Prevention is today the fifth wheel of our health care system. What do you intend to do to remedy the lack of resources and ambition of prevention policy in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u78	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u79	There will be one before and one after for the application of the barricades that are important and now known to all – I do not return to it. It is hoped that, instinctively, the French will do so, with the possible exception of physical distancing when it is no longer necessary, during outbreaks of influenza or infectious diseases, which are less symptomatic or less serious. They may see health differently and how to protect themselves during contact. With regard to prevention, it was important to capitalize on the experience of the crisis in order to reinforce messages to the population, since prevention was essential in the context of occupational medicine or school medicine. You're reporting a downsizing. I point out that the curve has been reversed since 2017 thanks to the allocation of additional resources to national education. We have also set up the health service, which allows medical students or paramedical students to come to work in national education and strengthen prevention. Mention should also be made of the role of associations that carry a message of prevention on tobacco or on sports activities in schools, in which they work with teachers. We all need to look at prevention in a different way. If it is now anchored in the minds, it must be implemented in a more resolute and natural way in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u80	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u81	The Head of State announced an ambitious four-pronged plan to respond to the health system crisis in France. But before the pandemic, doctors and health care professionals had already pulled the alarm bell. Significant progress was also made in the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, adopted a year ago; €1.5 billion in emergency investment was decided in November 2019. We will now have to go further and faster, as announced. There is one subject on which everyone agrees: the administrative heaviness, which the crisis has particularly highlighted. The commonly accepted idea is that medical time, the time of research, evaluation, the needs of the patient, must now take precedence over administrative time. The President of the Republic himself congratulated the medical staff for freeing himself from the administrative constraints on him. But not all of the barriers could be removed and many of them hindered optimal management. From Mulhouse, severely affected, we were well placed to observe it: there were, of course, stocks of strategic masks that we could not identify; there were these patients transferred from Mulhouse or Strasbourg to Angers or even Bordeaux, while our Swiss friends had offered beds a few kilometres from the border; Finally, there was the heaviness of the formalities, where more fluidity would have been needed. Far from lamenting us, we want to make a strong contribution to the future. To achieve this, we need to learn all the lessons from the management of the pandemic in order to emerge collectively strengthened. Madam Secretary of State, what are the administrative constraints that you have already identified and that you wish to remove in the future plan that we will have to build? What lessons do you learn from the crisis with regard to our organisation, based in particular on regional health agencies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u82	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u83	While the crisis has hit our health care system hard, it has also reminded us of the strength of its collective and has given rise to great successes, especially in your region. In the hospital, health professionals and management teams dropped many barriers between them. They have found a sense and shared values in their action – it is also a positive aspect of crisis management. We must maintain that momentum. We need to restore greater autonomy and flexibility in the organisation and day-to-day management of institutions. In many territories, cooperation has been established in record time between all actors – city medicine, hospital and medical-social institutions. That is also what must be preserved at all costs. I would also like to highlight the mobilisation of regional health agencies and local and regional authorities. In many places, they have sealed partnerships and worked together – I am thinking in particular of the distribution of masks to medical and social institutions. We often want to work in partnership, but we don't, because we have a nose in the handlebars. In times of crisis, we have to lift our heads and adapt. That is what has been done in the recent period. We need to take all the good experiences from them in order to extend them to other territories or to adapt them as needed. It is from the territories that we will have to work on, and this is what the President of the Republic and the Minister of Solidarity and Health have committed themselves to through the Ségur de la santé, which, from 25 May, will carry out a reflection around four axes: revalorisation of wages and careers; investment and financing arrangements; a more flexible health system; New organization based on territories and integrating city medicine, hospital and medical-social institutions. Great work in perspective that you will not fail to take part in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u84	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u85	I would like to associate my colleague Philippe Berta with my question. The epidemic we are facing shows the absolute need for reliable and consistent research tools. Indeed, our ability to anticipate an emerging virus-related health crisis, by nature unpredictable, depends on our investment in basic health research, particularly in infectious diseases, over the long term and on the widest possible spectrum. This is the imperative prerequisite for the establishment of an effective national health security strategy. This issue is therefore deeply linked to the issue of the allocation of recurrent and perennial funding to research projects. For a long time, however, our scientists have been subjected to chronic instability in their work because of budgetary arbitrations that force them to change their subject matter along the way. For example, the outbreaks of SARS and MERS, which occurred in the early 2000s, were first the subject of much research before interest and funding dried up. Now we know that the mechanisms of action of covid-19 are similar to those of these viruses. If the research had been continued, let us be sure that we would already be in possession of antivirals, or even the vaccine so expected today. Madam Secretary of State, how do you envisage the consolidation of our scientific research system in the light of the crisis? How can we ensure that the relevant agencies give priority to continuity of work? Finally, on what organizational framework do you intend to develop research on new viruses: through an agency dedicated to infectious diseases and emerging viruses or through the extension of the ANRS research area?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u86	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u87	Your question echoes the one asked by Sandrine Josso at the beginning of the research session. It is not time to reorganize or create structures. We do not want to destabilize what works. Rather, it is a matter of continuing to strengthen REACTing in order to support the coordination of ongoing research in the field of patient care and to prepare the next step: vaccine research. I emphasize the highly multidisciplinary nature of the ongoing research: it involves biology, virology, epidemiology, modelling, physiopathology and public health. It is thanks to this varied prism that we can continue to move forward. It is the strength of a network like REACTing that brings together national research organisations, universities and hospitals. In addition, geometry and commitment can vary from crisis to crisis thanks to the flexibility and agility of the network. In due course, we will study, in cooperation with the Minister of Research and the various actors, the relevance of another organization in the long term. Finally, I would like to acknowledge the action of the care teams that have been mobilizing since the beginning of the research. Their work is essential to understanding, preventing and managing the disease. Let us maintain what exists, then, when we find the solution, we will consider, based on the results, the need for improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u88	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u89	The health crisis is not over, the virus is still there, but the French question the answers during and after the crisis of the covid-19 to improve health security. It may be necessary to distinguish several periods in the crisis: between September and December 2019, the virus spreads in China; between January and March 2020, the epidemic is looming at home and even more strongly in European countries around us; Between March and today, the epidemic is spreading around the world. The assessment that WHO is preparing to carry out will hopefully allow us to see more clearly about the beginning of the epidemic in Asia. Parliamentary investigations in France will also allow us to unravel the true truth about masks, tests, chronology of events and decisions taken, but the lack of anticipation comes to mind. The crisis is unprecedented in its scale and nature, but it is not the first epidemic we face. I cannot understand that from what was happening in China at the end of 2019 and what we had already known in the last ten years, no alerts have been given. Are we represented at the WHO? What did the diplomatic network tell us? Are there notes or reports alerting us to the imminent danger? For the post-crisis period, my question is simple in its formulation, but it probably calls for a complex answer. It is understood that health security is based on health sovereignty, which makes it possible not to miss medicines, not to depend on a single country for masks, blouses, gloves, tests or vaccines. We have understood the lesson well. How do you intend to guarantee health security and sovereignty? Which productions will be relocated to France? What about the vaccine and its implementation, on which the French are waiting for answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u90	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u91	I would like to thank you for presenting the situation in a punctual manner, highlighting the uncertainties, the lack of information and the unprecedented nature of the crisis that we are experiencing. Your question, which covers several of them, is legitimate. How do we intend to protect ourselves against possible shortages of protective equipment, medicines or medical devices? I have explained this at length with regard to masks: we are re-establishing the production of new products – filtering textile masks, whose properties allow, for some models, to approach 99% filtration of particles of three microns, and which are therefore of very high quality. We have also re-implanted and increased the production of surgical masks and FFP2, by going back to the industry, that is also by working on access to the raw material which is now the bottleneck. As far as medicines are concerned, we have started the process since 2018, with one observation: the pharmaceutical industry has halved its production in France between 2008 and 2017. On the basis of this situation we have found, we have developed a reindustrialization policy which requires, on the one hand, an attractive ecosystem in terms of rapid market access and clinical trials, and, on the other hand, an industrial approach to the price of health products so that a pharmaceutical group moving to France can validly balance the cost of research and produce for France and the European market. In this area, we need to make further progress. As far as vaccines are concerned, the Minister for Solidarity and Health and I held a video conference this morning to take stock of our European counterparts. Our action must be European. We need to select the best vaccines – a role for the health and research sectors – and identify the costs that can be shared. For example, the filling of bottles can be pooled for several vaccines. On the other hand, certain active ingredients will be specific to a particular vaccine, and we will have to finance the development of vaccines without knowing whether they will be effective; This risk will have to be taken to protect the French and Europeans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u92	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u93	The decree allowing the executive to be installed in the municipalities whose municipal council was completely renewed on 15 March 2020 has been published, and this is good news. The person who will set the date of the second round and the conditions of its conduct is, in turn, highly expected. To know this date, however, we will have to wait for the Scientific Council to submit its report on the health situation by 23 May. If it is set in June, as many call for, there is much to bet that, with regard to the health measures to be applied, the wearing of the mask will be mandatory or, at least, recommended. What steps do you intend to take to ensure that everyone will have the means to comply with this directive, so that democracy is accessible to all and secure? Many of us wish that the executives will be in order of march as soon as possible? This is essential for relaunching public order and economic recovery. However, as history tends to stutter, we would oppose the organization of the second round if the security conditions proved to be risky. On the other hand, the worst consequences of the breakdown could appear long after the Scientific Council gave its opinion. Do you think that a second opinion, issued at a very close date to the vote, is necessary? Do you think you will have an express cancellation in case the best security conditions are not met? More generally, the wearing of the mask is now strongly recommended in public space, or even mandatory in certain circumstances. Therefore, do we not have an obligation to ensure that everyone has the means to apply this directive, which has become essential over time? What do you intend to do for the most vulnerable families? Small sub-question: if massive serological testing was organized, do you think it could be done in a pharmacy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u94	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u95	There is a table that identifies the full range of risks associated with the various activities related to the spread of covid-19. It shows that the organisation of elections is one of the least risky actions. Moreover, according to an article published a few days ago, the holding of the first round of elections on 15 March did not result in the spread of the virus, contrary to what was thought. It is on the basis of this experience, the advice of scientists and the report that the Prime Minister will present to Parliament on May 23rd that we will make recommendations. It is the Prime Minister who will decide the date of the second round for the remaining 4000 to 5000 communes where the municipal council has not been elected. Depending on the date chosen and the configuration of the places, we will adapt the implementation of the gate gestures – hand washing with gel, wearing the mask. We will take all necessary precautions, on the basis of the advice of the scientists, to allow the election to take place. To answer your last question, we will not carry out massive serological tests, because we cannot do so and their results would not be conclusive, particularly with regard to covid-19 immunity. We stick to what we said: we conduct PCR tests to trace the contamination chains and then prevent and isolate people according to their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u96	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u97	As soon as the mask was imposed, my colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and I were interested in the collection and treatment of used masks, for several reasons. On the one hand, the health security of all French people must be guaranteed, particularly health-care workers and workers responsible for the maintenance and collection of waste. On the other hand, collecting and treating masks appropriately is also a way to stem the spread of the virus. For the past few days, we have seen masks hanging out on the ground, in the city, on the roads of our countryside or on the beaches – I saw one in the early afternoon on line 13 of the metro before arriving at the National Assembly. This is therefore a major issue. The Government has launched an information campaign on barrier gestures – washing hands, sneezing or coughing in one's elbow, respecting a certain distance. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister and co-signed by several of our colleagues, Mrs.Firmin Le Bodo and I made proposals. First, we recommend continuing information and outreach, particularly with regard to the collection and treatment of used masks. Secondly, a structured chain of collection and treatment of used masks should be supported. Far from being an ordinary object, a used mask can be assimilated to a waste of care activities. It must therefore be identified, collected and treated as such. Thirdly, does the Government envisage using methods such as sterilization, which could be an alternative to collection and treatment in some health care facilities or EHPADs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u98	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u99	The question that you raise, Mr. Benoit, is particularly sensitive at a time when the use of the mask is spreading outside the institutions where it is usual. In hospitals and EHPADs, you know as I do, masks are considered to be DASRIs, waste care activities with infectious risks. As such, they are collected in specific bins and undergo special treatment, resulting in an additional cost to the hospital or EHPAD. The same procedure is being set up, in a very organized way, among employers, both public and private. At the Ministry of Economy and Finance, for example, we see the blooming of waste bins for DASRI, which allow the masks to be collected safely, separated from the flow of conventional waste and treated to avoid contamination. There is indeed a need to inform the general public, which is a fairly large-scale operation. We are working on this with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, particularly with my colleague Brune Poirson, in two directions. First, it is to argue that a mask used, in particular a single-use mask, must be disposed of in a plastic bag, in order to protect those responsible for treating the waste. It is a rule of citizenship and responsibility, which I call on all French people to respect. Secondly, we are working on the recycling and reuse of masks. It is well understood that a single-use mask has a larger environmental footprint and a more complicated treatment cycle than a mainstream mask, which only needs to be washed in a 60-degree machine to evacuate the risk of spread of the virus. Brune Poirson and I consider how to accompany a recycling of textile masks for future uses on the basis of a responsible industry. With regard to the reuse of masks, we have progressed from a technical point of view and we have three solutions: ultraviolet-ray furnaces, ethylene oxide, gamma-ray treatment. Arguments were put forward in support of each of them; They must now prove themselves. We are conducting the necessary studies, hand in hand with the ANSM, the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u100	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u101	First of all, I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your precise answer to my first question. My second question concerns the organisation of health in France, a subject which has just been mentioned by several colleagues and which has been coming back regularly for several years – I know that I have been sitting in the Assembly for more than ten years. Ministry of Health, Public Health France, High Authority for Health, regional health agencies, Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail, Alliance nationale pour les sciences de la vie et de la santé, Épidémologie-France, Agence nationale de sécurité du médicament et des produits de santé, conseils, authorities, commissions, conferences and various institutes, we invented everything! And soon will join a high-ranking police station in the fight against epidemics and a national security and medical logistics agency... Far from my intention to denigrate the women and men who work in these organizations and structures! However, caregivers have been telling us for many years that they want to focus their action on their core business: to be at the bedside of the patient and to treat him. All these bodies, which we have created over the years, tend to increase the decision-making process and impose many protocols, administrative procedures and procedures that ultimately keep the health care staff – doctors, nurses and caregivers – away from the patient. Last February, I drew the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mrs Buzyn, to the need to give time to caregivers to be more present at the patient's bedside. On 19 December, Professor Olivier Claris was tasked with identifying new ways to simplify procedures. What concrete measures does the Government intend to take to address the problem? At what point – should it be done fairly quickly – will he make proposals on this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u102	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u103	The issue of the association of caregivers in decision-making, including doctors and hospital staff, is a major project. I know that it is at the heart of your concerns and of the work that you are doing here in the National Assembly. As you have explained, it has also become a major reason for dissatisfaction, which reflects the very meaning of work, not only of heads of departments and managers, but also of nurses, particularly in relation to the protocol on the passage of information. It's a long time for the care that caregivers need, that we need. This is the whole meaning of the work that Agnes Buzyn had undertaken with the plan "My Health 2022" and of the one that will be led with the Ségur de la santé, launched by Olivier Véran. I cannot anticipate any proposals that will be made on this occasion, because it is from the experience of the field and from the feedback on what works or does not work that we will adapt the organisation and provide answers. These answers, we will not bring them alone, but of course with you, parliamentarians, and all the caregivers and their representatives. This is the way to work to find the right solutions. As I pointed out earlier, directors and doctors should not be opposed, because it is by working together that they have been able to find innovative answers to deal with the crisis that we are experiencing. We must also create the conditions for a renewed debate on the place and recognition of the officials of the public hospital, heads of service as health managers. A job has to be started, as I said, concerning the latter. Let's get the job done. You will be fully associated with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u104	Mrs Marine Le Pen, Member of Parliament who is not registered, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u105	In a very clear way, the health crisis that we are experiencing has been amplified by a total lack of anticipation on the part of the public authorities. If your government's responsibility is important – it will be measured in the coming months – it is also the responsibility of your predecessors. The health policy chosen by successive governments, based on the model of tense flow, profitability and relocation, has broken down on the wall of reality. Our health staff is very qualified, the hic is that they do not have the technical tools to properly exercise their know-how. However, health is a technical, specialized and regal field. It is technical because it requires a great deal of research and development; We need to understand developments and innovations, evaluate them, conduct programs, manage budgets, monitor foreign markets and – of course – protect our know-how. Finally, the Sanofi news has illustrated it, it is regal, because health is more than ever a key sector of competition among nations. Moreover, it is part of our social model, largely financed by public money. The question of the place of the State therefore arises. Armament is a comparable, rather well-functioning sector, thanks to programming laws, which give visibility to industrialists, and to a body of engineers, which serves as an interface between industrialists and users and implements the strategy of the State. To improve our health security, we therefore propose to create a body of health engineers, and a direction designed on the model of what exists in armaments – these measures will be detailed in our exit plan. They would avoid a lot of waste, of "stop-and-go" in investments, as health has long known; they would provide the state with actors capable of delineating an industrial and export research and development strategy. The State would regain its role as a strategist, while promoting the development of an innovative, competitive and exporting industrial fabric, as well as its role as a guarantor of the nation's health security. Are you considering, Madam Secretary of State, reorganizing the state services in this direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u107	Thank you for asking this question, which gives me the opportunity to take stock of the organised and planned industrial health policy, which we have been conducting since 2017. What was the situation? You described it. Between 2008 and 2017, the French market share in world production was divided by two – I say by two. What have we done? We have established a Health Industries Strategic Council, which brings together all private health actors and relevant ministries. It aims to encourage the establishment of new sites. We have established a very clear programme of work, which is regularly monitored with the industrialists involved. We have thus reduced market access times, facilitated clinical trials and allowed €2 billion of investment in biotechnology. We are installing the Health Data Hub, a source of improved health care, especially in terms of prevention. When we know the scourge of nosocomial infections or iatrogenia, we understand how promising this type of equipment is. We reserved 3% price increases for innovative medicines, which had not been done in several years. At the same time, we have been working in favour of the attractiveness of France, which has brought it to the forefront of foreign investment in industrial projects. This has resulted in the development of health projects, with the key to jobs and productions – AstraZeneca in Dunkirk offers an example. Industrial sovereignty is at the heart of the productive pact, in which health technologies are seen as essential technologies to accompany. It is also at the centre of European discussions; Last Friday I took part in the Competitiveness Council: we share the ambition to defend a new important project of common European interest – IPCEI – on health. Believe that we are committed here and now to health. We're not talking, we're acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u108	We have completed the questions on the answers to be given during and after the crisis of the covid-19 to improve health security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u109	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u110	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u111	The next item is the questions on urgent social measures to be taken in the face of covid-19. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u112	The health crisis has led to a devastating social crisis. As always, inequality is aggravated. Some get away with it without too much noise, others pay the high price. Departments such as the Seine-Saint-Denis have thus paid a heavy toll. In addition to France's highest rate of overmortality, there are now serious economic difficulties: unemployment, rent debts and, for many families – no doubt, it is the most incredible and unbearable in France's fifth world power – hunger. The measures taken by the Government were far from sufficient. The exceptional aid paid to families, salutary, has only just arrived. It will not compensate for the losses accumulated in the past two months, which will increase further. To overcome these difficulties and the shortcomings of the State, solidarity takes over again. I see this in Montreuil, in Bagnolet and in other cities in the department: associations play a crucial role in the development of this last bulwark, assisted by the inhabitants and collective citizens, aware of the urgency. However, they too are hit hard by the crisis: their revenues are falling, while the means they must deploy are exploding. For the first time, some historical organizations – I think Emmaus – have been forced to call for donations. The reserve funds of the smaller structures, which constitute the necessary local grid, as close as possible to the ground, are even thinner. On 23 April, you announced €25 million for food aid associations. Frankly, that's not much. Before the crisis, more than 5 million people were receiving regular or ad hoc assistance from food banks: this amounts to €5 per person. We must therefore unlock new, ambitious means, including in favour of associations in areas other than solidarity, in particular those working for social and cultural development, school support and leisure aid. I would ask you to introduce a major support plan for associations working in the most affected territories, such as the Seine-Saint-Denis. It must be ambitious and up to the stakes. If the Republic is not social, it is no longer the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u114	Mr President, although we will come back later on food aid, I would like to stress all the work that Christelle Dubos and I have done in this area; You yourself recalled the existence of the €25 million fund, the creation of which was announced about a month ago by the Secretary of State. You ask us how to go further and help associations in this period beyond this essential food aid. I join you in your conviction that in many of our neighbourhoods, social ties and solidarity depend on associations. You've seen it like me every day; I am thinking in particular of associations offering home support and school support. These acts of solidarity, which may seem modest, bring immense benefits to the people concerned. What has the Government done in this regard? At a minimum, two measures should be recalled. As you said, there is a need to strengthen solidarity measures in the field of education. So we created a €10 million fund during the crisis, so that all associations can buy equipment – 4G, 3G keys, tablets, computers – to support educational continuity locally for children who need it. The measure was not spectacular, because it did not result in a state order. It was that it seemed to us – and we will probably join us on this point – that it was better to delegate the management of funds at the local level, namely to associations and communities, rather than having tens of thousands of tablets ordered by the state and then distributed. We have also set up a EUR 5 million solidarity fund for actions of great proximity. It was a first. I have just announced the sustainability of this fund and the doubling of its amount. It makes it possible to give 500, 1000 or 2000 euros to associations of very close proximity, which act in favour of solidarity. This sustainability of the fund and the doubling of its amount are of course in addition to the €200 million paid each year by the State to associations of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u115	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u116	It is common practice to say, with good reason, that the railway workers were in the second line during the period of containment and epidemic. They have played a fundamental role in a sector that has shown its indispensable character. Previously, they had been abused by opening up to competition, which is to be welcomed that it was not effective during this crisis, as the fact that there was only one national operator has facilitated the achievement of strategic tasks. The railway workers were also misled when the privileges of their pension plan were pointed out, just before they were called "heroes of everyday life" for continuing their work, worthless, despite the epidemic risks that led to the disappearance of some of them. Mobilization during this period has led to strong social tensions, and an effort could be expected to ease tensions at the end of confinement. Instead, several railway workers are threatened with dismissal by SNCF. While the labour inspectorate gave the right to Eric Bezou, a trade unionist affiliated with Sud-Rail in Saint-Lazare who contested his dismissal by the SNCF, it is nevertheless a question, in an email from the Ministry of Labour dated Monday, to confirm this sanction. Samy Charifi, secretary of a works council, affiliated with the CGT in Paris-Est, also risks delisting after having symbolically occupied, for a friendly party, a place belonging to the works council of the SNCF. Do you not think that instead of these revanctive gestures, which feel the criminalization of the social world, it would be time to calm tensions, declare a form of social amnesty and return to the possible radiations of these railwaymen?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u117	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u118	Mr Coquerel, you are right to pay tribute to the railwaymen. I am also thinking of many other people on the second line – in particular, to make the connection with Mr Corbière's comments, to those who have run the shops of the city centres, while they often live in the priority areas of city politics. They continued to take the subway every morning and work for all the others, despite the difficulties we are experiencing. Collegiately, in a trans-partisan manner, we pay tribute to them. As regards the SNCF, neither Christelle Dubos nor myself being in charge of transport, you will not be mad at me for not being able to give you any information that I do not have. It is better not to respond when we do not know exactly the state of the discussions. You know the commitment of our colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebari on this subject. I will therefore answer more broadly – echoing your question – that the immense challenge of the moment is to avoid, in a very republican and trans-partisan way, that the health crisis is transformed into a social crisis; We'll all work out for it. If we do not say enough, partial unemployment has been introduced for this purpose, even if we all know, with humility and lucidity, that this is not a lasting solution, and that it cannot be extended for every month to come. Support measures must be taken to increase turnover and boost order books. Rest assured that the Government's mobilization is fully focused on access to employment and business support measures, in order to prevent the health crisis from turning into a social crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u119	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u120	Minister, the complicity that binds you to the richest has lasted long enough. Our proposal to tax the profits of the crisis profiters who spoil our national misfortune has been rejected; the prohibition on paying dividends, which was refused; that of re-establishing the ISF, the solidarity tax on wealth, even temporarily, refused! Last week, Bruno Le Maire taxed this last proposal for "pure demagogy", while the removal of this tax costs us 4.5 billion euros per year. The worst thing is that your benevolence to raptors doesn't pay. The Sanofi laboratory, which you have watered with 1 billion euros with the research tax credit and the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, and of which 80% of the income in France comes from social security, announces that it will favour the United States in case of discovery of a vaccine against covid-19. The President was concerned: after all the efforts made over the past three years to give ever more to those who already had, he was surprised that the Sanofi laboratory did not make a gesture. What you don't understand is that transnational corporations have only one homeland: money! Your flexibility and bends have only strengthened their nuisance power. At any time, health crisis or not, they will choose the path of profit rather than that of the general interest. But rather than making them pay for their means, you look after their finances. It could be only 1 euro left for all the French, that you would refuse to tax them! We must not only find a vaccine against covid-19, but also a vaccine against greed. The social crisis ahead is unprecedented; famine is watching, and they are not crumbs that people need. What is the point of being the sixth richest country in the world, if you leave 9 million people in poverty, and soon more? Give yourself the means to cope with the social crisis, looking for money where it is: in the shareholder pocket, in the GAFA caisse – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – and in tax havens. That's where the billions you let go every year! France must be a social republic. When are you finally going to act as a minister serving the general interest rather than as a manager of the wealth of the most wealthy in this country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u121	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u122	Among the various questions you are asking, allow me to remember one, Mrs Panot: the one concerning the ISF. If this tax worked as well as you say, the poverty rate would not be so high in France over the last few decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u123	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u124	We want capital to be reinvested, in order to create jobs – because it is employment, and support to it, that makes it possible to get out of poverty. On the other hand, let me point out that in the face of the crisis, we did not have to improvise, because our social protection system was able to be adapted, for example by opening up the rights to partial unemployment and to work stoppages for childcare. We have adapted our system rather than seeking measures against individuals economically or socially. Our goal is to relieve and maintain our economic life: when we support employment, we support employees and limit entry into poverty. It is clear that in other countries the lack of partial unemployment has had disastrous effects on living standards and poverty rates. Regarding the management of the social crisis, let me remind you that we have put more than EUR 3 billion on the table to finance various measures: 1.2 billion to support social and medico-social institutions; 1.1 billion direct support for vulnerable people, notably through exceptional solidarity aid and food aid, among the many aids granted to prevent social drama from being added to the health crisis; 600 million for early childhood support; 50 million for the strengthening of the national emergency accommodation policy, led by Mr Denormandie; 34 million for emergency responses to critical situations, with strong territorial targeting, through food emergency cheques, of which a first wave, amounting to EUR 14 million, has benefited 100,000 families, to which must be added the measures taken by the Minister of Housing in favour of the 90,000 homeless families; EUR 25 million to associations to enable the purchase of additional food. Let us not be afraid: more than 3 billion euros have been released to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u125	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u126	I would like to return to an issue already discussed by Alexis Corbière. On 30 October last, at a hearing before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr Gabriel Attal said: "The Restos du Cœur brings together 70000 regular volunteers. If they were permanents paid to the SMIC by the State, this would cost more than 200 million euros a year", demonstrating a rather liberal conception of the voluntary sector, which is interested in volunteering under the prism of the costs it avoids from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u127	And the universal national service, he's dead?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u128	Private charity, while commendable, cannot, however, replace the mechanism of national solidarity that a "social republic" implies, in the words of our Constitution. In fact, by questioning many actors in the sector, it is apparent that they are in dire need of active assistance from the public authorities, particularly in the time of the crisis of the Covid-19, when the spontaneous momentum of self-help has been particularly essential. In my only constituency, I met volunteer dressmakers making masks when the government's word on the subject was still floating; associations collecting diving masks to overcome the shortage reported by renowned Parisian hospitals; groups of young people, so often criticized, distributing through their personal car up to 100 meals a day, prepared in private kitchens. Despite the treasures of ingenuity implemented, these associations are currently in need of massive state support. To be more precise, let us take the example of the Secours populaire du département de la Seine-Saint-Denis. As the European aid fund for the poorest, which finances the largest national associations, starts and is renewed in October, the stock of food from this branch of the Secours populaire will be exhausted in mid-June. According to the presidential speech, "the State will pay". Will he make an advance on this fund? Otherwise, will he provide compensation equivalent to 274 tonnes of food products to the Seine-Saint-Denis department? More broadly, what long-term measures will be taken to respond to the food crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u129	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u130	If your question is about associations, allow me to focus on the particular issue of food aid. The cost of food aid amounts to 1.5 billion euros, taking into account the work of the 300,000 volunteers working in France in associations in this sector. If food aid is managed by associations, it is financed by the State through a payment of €115 million annually, some of which comes from European funds. The State also supports associations through the challenge of providing donations from individuals and businesses for the supply of additional food, amounting to €350 million. Finally, the local authorities abound the funds of the associations, for an amount of 250 million euros. In concrete terms, in this period of crisis, while the annual budget is EUR 115 million, we have contributed EUR 39 million under the emergency food aid plan. It is therefore the equivalent of one third of the annual budget that we give to the associations, or directly to the beneficiaries, to give them access to this aid. The second part of your question was about European funds. Please be aware that the State has ordered seven products from its own funds, which will be available in the coming days for food aid associations. In addition, a public contract is being awarded, from European funds, in order to be able to distribute milk and butter to associations in June; a set of products will arrive in September. In this period of crisis, substantive work is being done to continue to feed associations and maintain their stocks. Finally, as was the case before the crisis, I work with the associations in weekly or daily bilateral meetings. We have thus adapted the system so that volunteers, often retired, can continue their work; some 300,000 of our fellow citizens have committed to the platform je veuxaider.gouv.fr, for which I am responsible with Gabriel Attal; More than half of them have done so under food aid. As far as associations are concerned, the State must do better and put its hands in the country so that associations can work properly on the ground, beyond financial matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u131	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u132	I would like to return to the exceptional solidarity aid which has just been paid to the recipients of social minimum allowances and to the beneficiaries of personal housing aid. This aid leaves aside some people: non-indemnified job seekers, self-employed entrepreneurs, paid students, employees who have exhausted their rights, or young people under the age of 25 who are not entitled to the RSA – active solidarity income – but from which I am now learning that the aid could be paid to them in June. We believe that this succession of measures – at least until the end of the year, because the crisis will last several months – should be consolidated in time by setting up an exceptional aid fund, and that it should be extended to the public which is not yet affected by the exceptional aid of solidarity. This is a proposal that we are making. This exceptional aid fund, which would make it possible to make a monthly payment to the beneficiaries, must be formalised so as not to be based on ad hoc decisions. It will also have to be financed because if we want this measure to last in the medium to long term, we need money! Do you really think that you will escape the introduction of a contribution from the richest French? All the experts say, we'll have to go through this. We therefore propose an equally exceptional contribution of 0.5% to which the 1% of French people who have 16% of the national heritage would be subject. It's not the sea to drink.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u133	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u134	Thank you, honourable Member, for mentioning the exceptional solidarity aid that was paid on 15 May. It is the result of a collective work of the Government to which Julien Denormandie, the Minister of Solidarity and Health Olivier Véran and I have worked. It seemed to us essential to provide a financial response to these families whose expenses have increased as a result of the closure of schools, which has resulted in higher food costs while these families sometimes experienced a decline in resources. In fact, recipients of social minima such as the RSA and the SSA – a special solidarity allowance – were unable to work for the few hours they worked through intermediary associations or temporary agencies. The partial unemployment scheme has been a response to this phenomenon and has limited its scope; In this sense, the safety net has worked. Let me remind you that the partial unemployment scheme will cover 100% – not 84% – of the SMIC and that any income reductions will be partially offset by the activity premium. Our protection system plays its role as a shock absorber. The exceptional aid announced by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister on 13 April was for families and young people. Another exceptional aid of EUR 200 will be paid to 800,000 young people in the coming days, amounting to EUR 160 million. In order to meet the specific needs that had arisen in the meantime, I asked for two things. First, I asked that all rights be maintained in order to ensure that people with digital breaks, such as RSA recipients who could not complete their quarterly statement of resources, do not experience a breach of rights. This has been done for the benefit of many of our fellow citizens. Secondly, I asked the family allowance funds to pay individual emergency assistance. To date, more than 18,000 cases have been investigated and, since the beginning of the crisis, €5.3 million has been paid to families known by social workers who have requested this exceptional aid, in addition to what was offered to them in the context of food aid. Our priority is to maintain the safety net. We will ask ourselves the question of the minimum amount and the care of young people under 25 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u135	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u136	At present, employees in the private sector who are partially unemployed by their enterprises receive a guarantee of 84 % of their net salary or even 100 % at the level of the SMIC, which the State and unemployment insurance reimburse fully to employers up to the limit of 4.5 SMIC. Many employees have lost income with partial unemployment; Others are faced with the precariousness of small jobs that do not open up any rights. With the deregulation and resumption of activities, the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, stated that the scheme would be progressively reduced and that the State was not intended to continue to pay all the wages of the private sector. The Government was therefore moving towards a reduction in the percentage of partial unemployment compensation as from 1 June, when the epidemic was far from having said its last word. The country's activity is restarting. Masks are not available to all employees; Worse, they're still not free. But, for you, it is absolutely necessary to restart. Before you make your final decision, I would like to alert you to the situation of all those young people who relied on their summer jobs, in holiday camps or elsewhere, to finance their studies or driving licences. I am also thinking of the paramedical professions which will still not be able to operate under normal conditions, but which will not receive financial compensation. I am also sensitive to the fate of the employees who resume their activity the ball in the belly, knowing full well that they will not be protected optimally. This new measure, if you remain in your position, will reduce the purchasing power already reduced by several million employees a little more, while others, unfortunately dismissed, will go into employment. The economy is restarting, but this restart must not be done at any cost. This is a key issue for securing purchasing power and foresaw the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u138	Mr President, you are asking me about the partial unemployment scheme. As I said earlier, for people at SMIC, the coverage is 100% of the net salary. In addition, the drop in income resulting from the partial activity will be partially offset in some cases, for example for those entitled to the activity premium. I invite them here to complete their statement. I would add that the partial activity has been opened to an audience that has so far not been entitled to it. I will take only one example: that of the kindergarten assistants, who were able to benefit from it to compensate for the absence of child care related to confinement. The safety net worked well from this point of view. Yes, it is necessary to accompany the resumption of work by ensuring respect for the detailed restrictive actions in the sixty or so guides drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, in conjunction with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, and reworked with the trade union organizations in the framework of a constructive social dialogue, in order to allow for a resumption of employment under the best conditions. It is wrong to say, Mr President, that the partial unemployment scheme will stop on 1 June: it will not stop on that date and will accompany the recovery, even if it will be gradually adapted. The modalities of this adaptation are still being developed. We will be vigilant, because it is not by opposing the economy to social and health, but by adopting a broad vision, that we will allow the French who can do so to return to work in good conditions of health security in order to get the economy back on track and avoid plans for layoffs. Our goal is to maintain employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u139	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u140	The health crisis we are experiencing has an undeniable social impact, and this exceptional crisis requires exceptional responses. I want to focus on two particularly prominent subjects in my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, namely the difficulties in paying rents and the food supply. It is to be welcomed that the Government responded present, and quickly, first by shifting the end of the winter truce to 31 May and 10 July, and then by announcing, through the voice of ministers Julien Denormandie and Christelle Dubos, exceptional aid for the most modest households, which was paid on 15 May to 4 million households. In Seine-Saint-Denis, this represents more than 36 million euros and just over 150,000 beneficiary households. This aid has been a breath of oxygen for families who have been living in silent distress since confinement, families already in difficulty before the crisis and for whom the closure of school canteens has been a second financial shock in a department with an unemployment rate well above the national average and very affected by job insecurity. We all have in mind the images of the long queues during the food distributions organized by associations that I want to thank here. Elected local of Clichy-sous-Bois, I saw families unknown to the communal centre for social action, which was recently recalled by the mayor of the city, Olivier Klein. A third part of the aid concerned precarious young people, whether students or not, and the distribution of service cheques. Madam and Mr Ministers, the crisis has aggravated the precarious situation faced by too many of our fellow citizens. It widens the social divide in the neighbourhoods and can only die for a long time. Extension of the winter truce beyond the summer, levers of the APL or the FSL – housing solidarity fund –, moratorium on rents, continuation of food aid through the creation of a dedicated public service, boost to the school year allowance... I would like to know what levers the Government is considering in order to continue to support the most modest in the coming months and to reduce inequalities that have been growing steadily in working-class neighbourhoods for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u141	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u142	Through you, Mr. Testé, I would like to thank all the actors on the ground: since we are talking about solidarity, I am thinking above all of the CCAS – communal centres for social action – and the communes, but also of all the associations with which we exchange very regularly and work hand in hand. Solidarity has no political colour. It has only one color: that of the action. Many of us have been mobilizing every day, since the beginning of the crisis, to help people in distress. Yes, there are people in distress; The crisis that we have experienced has once again revealed social inequalities. I think we have to do two things. The first, and it is essential, is to continue to manage the present. I confess: I would never have believed, as minister of the city and housing, to sign service tickets to serve food vouchers. But our hand did not tremble and we did so, first for very precarious audiences, then for modest families, in connection with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The arrangements will have to be maintained as long as they are necessary. Secondly, we must carry out public policies to accompany these social distresses. The payment of the exceptional aid to 4.1 million households has thus been extended to modest families who benefit from the APLs; They may not have seen their income decrease, but their expenses have increased. That is the reality we have observed, and the reason why we must continue. The last elements I remember from the period we live in are agility and proximity. This is what we do with the "SOS unpaid rents" platform at 0805160075, which allows us to adapt the responses to the realities we observe. This is also what we are doing to address the problem of unpaid rents in the social field: we have released funds for social donors and offered individual support for families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u143	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u144	For the past three years, the Government has pursued a proactive and committed policy of making the social and vocational integration of young people a priority. I am thinking here of many historical advances: the compulsory training of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 years, which aims to avoid break-ups; the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which gives nobility to learning; the reform of vocational schools, in order to make it a path of excellence; or the universal national service, to socialize and integrate young people, but also to identify the most difficult of them. These reforms, as well as many other ongoing projects, are intended to help young people, the first victim of mass unemployment and insecurity in our country. But this dynamic could be disrupted by the health crisis we are going through. First of all, the closure of schools, despite the introduction of educational continuity, could lead to an even greater rejection of the school among some vulnerable young people and lead to an increase in the number of school dropouts. We must do everything we can to give priority to their return to school; They must be our priority. Compulsory training is an additional means of keeping young people in difficulty; We've got to figure this out. Secondly, the economic difficulties to be foreseen raise concerns about the reduction in the number of proposals for apprenticeships, alternations, internships and even sponsorship. This could undermine the necessary support for young people in their vocational training. The involvement of companies will be decisive in reaching out to young people who are far from employment: we must encourage them, support them and value them when they make youth integration a priority. This occupational precariousness will inevitably be accompanied by greater social insecurity. Reflections are under way on the universal income of activity and young people will have to take their place. I also welcome the exceptional provision of assistance to vulnerable young people. Madam Secretary of State, what emergency and recovery measures do you intend to bring our young people to the benefit of tomorrow's challenges?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u145	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u146	You are asking me about the measures taken to promote the integration of young people. The fact is shared, and you have also been at the initiative of a report on the obligation to train young people between the ages of 16 and 18, a flagship measure of the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty, which should be implemented from September onwards. We see how the crisis is likely to further deepen inequalities, especially for young people who, even if they could have continued their studies during the crisis, stopped them. We must therefore work to limit the social consequences of the health crisis, particularly with regard to the integration of young people. That is why, as part of the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, we will remobilize 100,000 young people per year through the Guarantee of Activity scheme and assess the possibility of extending it. We also plan to increase support for young people who leave social assistance for children, as it is sometimes a vector of social inequalities. Finally, as you have pointed out, we want to be able to introduce the obligation to train. Together with Jean-Michel Blanquer and Muriel Pénicaud, we sent all prefects and school directors a letter asking that work be done to anticipate a possible drop-out. We believe it is important to identify and identify young people who may be affected in advance of September in order to reach out to them and, above all, not to leave them alone in the face of this distress. As you have rightly said, it is a matter of providing them with support for the resumption of a training or apprenticeship contract. The Minister of Labour is committed to maintaining the full range of professional learning: she had begun to bear fruit, she must not be reduced. We will also work to develop the offer of integration through economic activity, which is another important lever for integration, whether for young or old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u147	Mr Patrice Anato has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u148	The crisis of the Covid-19 was an opportunity to remind us that no social progress is ever made and that the greatest vigilance must always be maintained when it comes to preserving the satisfaction of the most basic needs of our fellow citizens. In our country, this watchdog role is carried out by the associations and thousands of volunteers who, as close as possible to the territories and the emergency, donate without counting for the others. Associations are present with those who are poor, those who are confined to housing that is too small or without housing at all, battered women, children at risk and those who are far from digital. They are there to help with educational continuity and support health services. They were the ears of those who, faced with the loneliness of confinement, needed to be listened to; the voice of those who did not know who to turn to to find an answer to their distress; the hand of those who, in the midst of confinement, could no longer do their own shopping. The associations have therefore taken their full part in the great national struggle. Of course, by directly targeting the poorest people in the face of the consequences of the crisis, the State has taken its own, and I welcome the measures that have been put in place. But I would like us not to forget those who, on the ground, have transformed solidarity and fraternity into concrete realities. I am thinking, for example, of the Fédération des rescuistes Français Croix blanche du 93, which, by supporting the teams of the SAMU – urgent medical aid service – in Seine-Saint-Denis, has done a fabulous job worthy of all our gratitude. I am also thinking of the Impuls'Elle associations, Handicap international integration, Label lyrique – I could mention many others. Minister, you know all these associations by heart. How do you intend to translate the recognition of the nation for them and that of the thousands of volunteers who have given in addition to their time and humanity? What first assessment can you draw from the grant fund that you have provided to small associations in the neighbourhoods of priority neighbourhoods? More generally, in the construction of the post, how will you support the associations, which have proved indispensable during the crisis, whether in the area of food aid, health or education?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u149	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u150	I would like to begin by confirming that your remarks are perfectly in line with what we have all been living, since the first day of confinement, in the famous priority areas of city politics. Your remarks also reflect a fact that I would like to state with force: contrary to the defeatist discourse that is heard too often, the Republic has never abandoned these neighbourhoods. The Republic, first and foremost, is the associations, that is, all the republican people who, on a day-to-day basis, work for the benefit of their fellow citizens. It is also teachers, public services, local communities and all their employees. Finally, the Republic is the State. This does not mean that things are simple and that there are not many difficulties to be solved, but that the Republic is there, that it does not abandon its neighbourhoods. I will never, absolutely ever, let the opposite be said. The role of the State must be to support the actors on the ground, i.e. the local authorities – but this is not the subject of your question – and the associations. It turns out that the ministry for which I am responsible is the one that finances the largest number of associations: each year we spend a budget of 200 million euros, and the presidential majority voted for an increase in the budget for aid to associations in the priority areas of the city. We therefore fund thousands of associations every year, but we have seen a great difficulty: unlike local authorities, who know how to do so, the state is not used to financing and supporting associations of great proximity. That is why, in the wake of the crisis, we have created a fund to support associations of very close proximity, with 5 million euros. Sometimes this help has taken the form of a cheque to fill the gasoline of a van, so that those who represent the republican ideal can go and make solidarity gestures. We learned from the crisis that solidarity should not be the victim of the covid -19: I therefore announced that we would not only perpetuate the fund, but also double its amount, because the State must be at the side of those who embody this French spirit of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u151	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u152	If the confinement period has been complex to manage for a very large number of French, I want to have a special thought for our seniors who reside in EHPADs. Containment, sometimes resulting in isolation in their rooms to protect them from the virus, may have had significant consequences for their well-being. In fact, isolation has placed the morale of our elders at a high risk of psychological consequences, and it is now essential that human contacts, whether physical or virtual, resume. While the deconfination began on 11 May throughout France – with the exception of Mayotte – visits to EHPAD, which had been very supervised, had already been allowed a few days before. Nevertheless, in addition to contacts with families, which remain exceptional and spaced over time, socio-cultural activities must resume: group activities, while respecting the barrier gestures, will thus make it possible to re-establish a social bond that has been able to dissipate. The resumption of fun activities, such as sewing, singing or, as mentioned in the progress report which Mr. Jérôme Guedj presented to you at the end of March, the creation of corridor animations, the diffusion of music on each floor or individual walks, are tracks to explore. With regard to deconfinity and its evolution, I deeply believe that the elderly person must be at the heart of decisions: I think I know, Madam Secretary of State, that this is also the way your ministry sees things. So, can you tell us what solutions are being considered, in connection with EHPADs and their residents, to break the isolation of our seniors and enable them to reconnect with culture, fun activities, animations and, more importantly, with our society?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u154	Thank you for your question, which allows us to revisit the difficult constraints that we have had to impose on our seniors, particularly in EHPADs, because of their vulnerability. Indeed, the virus is still circulating there unfortunately; In order to protect the elderly, we have had to apply constraints. Here I would like to thank all the professionals who work on a daily basis, whether in EHPAD or at home, to preserve the health and well-being of older people, because their work and presence sometimes make the days a little less long and a little more colourful. I associate the entire Government with these thanks for their important work. With regard to the reopening of establishments at the time of the definisation, we are gradually moving forward. Again, it is a matter of preserving and maintaining as much link as possible. In this capacity, I would also like to thank the many French who have mobilized, by sending letters to institutions or by offering screens so that families can continue to communicate with their elders. All this is the foundation of the French system of solidarity and proximity, a necessary system which is the cement of our Republic. And if we can tend to forget it, it has resurfaced and I hope that all our fellow citizens will continue to look at the proximity, take care of their neighbour, make sure everything is going well or ask if he needs shopping. Beyond prevention and care, we must continue to seek and promote these actions. With regard to elderly people at home, we do not prohibit families from visiting them, but the goal remains to apply the barrier gestures to protect them. Children and grandchildren can come to see their parents or grandparents: they wash their hands well, keep maximum safety distances, adults wear a mask. When we get out, we relax our hands and clean everything: I believe that applying these gestures will make it possible to have a little more human contacts and a little less screens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u155	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u156	First of all, I would like to thank the caregivers, the educators, the teachers, the police forces, all those who, in this period of confinement, have mobilized to make our country hold, quite simply. I also thank the volunteers who mobilized, even when it wasn't their job. Collectively, we can be proud of the momentum of solidarity that we have seen throughout the territory. As has been said, the Government has not been left behind: it has provided aid that can be described as massive. In fact, there were many exceptional aids: aid to the most modest, premium for social minimum beneficiaries, aid for precarious young people, extension of the winter truce, release of 21,000 places in emergency accommodation. During the pandemic, the Government made a significant effort in a very short period of time; I think we can congratulate him. Of course, nothing is never perfect, but we can be proud of what has already been achieved. I would like to pay tribute here to the listening of the ministers and the majority, but also to all the Members who, as I know, have brought back information so that the gaps and holes in the racket can be filled. In view of the queues observed in the territories to receive, for example, a food parcel, however, I was embarrassed. While, of course, I was proud of the solidarity that played to distribute the food, thousands, if not millions of French, came to pick up these food parcels. I think our responsibility is to ensure that this never happens again. So I would like to see the social emergency plan we are talking about rhyme with dignity, so that we no longer have to live only by receiving food parcels. If a lesson were to be learned from the pandemic, I would like it to be the need for an effective and resolute fight against poverty. In our country, 9 million people, 5 million children today suffer from poverty that undermines everyday life. I would therefore like, Madam Secretary of State, to inform us of the progress made with regard to the universal income of activity, also known as the citizen base. The best lesson we can learn from the crisis will be to get as many French as possible out of poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u157	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u158	Your question is broad, but the last part, which deals with the universal income of activity, is important. First of all, I would like to point out that our social protection system has worked: there have certainly been holes in the racket, as you said, but we have been able to adapt the system to limit them and to guarantee a safety net that best adapts to the needs of crisis situations. But we must also anticipate what will happen next: it is the question of social minima, especially for young people, which we had anticipated by launching a reflection and consultation on the universal income of activity. We hear, talk about basic income here and there, in other countries. This is particularly the case in Spain. In fact, it wants only to make the income of active solidarity guaranteed by municipalities and regions homogeneous at national level. But it already exists in France! On the other hand, the question of the amounts and access of young people to the scheme arises for us. On these issues, we have begun a reflection which I hope will resume quickly so that we can make proposals that will be able to respond to all of our fellow citizens. You also talked about dignity. While some parliamentarians and departmental presidents were defending the unconditionality of basic income, I regard this principle as a red line. Accompaniment is necessary and important: we must allow beneficiaries to rebuild themselves, to find a place in society, to look at themselves differently, to think that it is not because they benefit from a social minimum that they will remain in this situation throughout their lives. As part of our reflections on the universal income of activity, we have therefore linked this benefit with the public service of integration. How can we support beneficiaries in order to facilitate their return to society and employment? Let's also avoid these people having to push ten different doors: let's make sure they have only one door to push and it's the right one! All actors involved in integration must work together, in a coordinated manner, and families must not systematically recall their history or provide complementary material. Let us build a unified system, facilitate the lives of these French and encourage their support so that the different professionals of integration, very present in this crisis, take a different look at them and respect their dignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u159	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u160	The Government has announced the payment of an exceptional premium to caregivers, who have played and continue to play an irreplaceable role during this unprecedented health crisis. This bonus is obviously indispensable and fully deserved, but it should not give rise to a clear – and often justified – sense of injustice among the invisible, equally important, personnel whose expectations I have often relayed. You first mentioned hospital caregivers, but you should not forget those who help them, such as paramedics, or those who want to be considered as caregivers, such as radio manipulators. You then mentioned the professionals of EHPAD, who obviously deserve such a bonus, but we must not forget those who accompanied us at home throughout this crisis, our elders and the fragile, isolated and vulnerable people. These home accompaniment professionals had to cope with the crisis by experiencing a significant risk of contamination, despite the difficulties of supplying personal protective equipment and the absence of screening; They had to face daily life despite fear, new constraints and divergent information. You promise discussions with the departments, but these staff are waiting better than that. They call for the State to assume responsibility, to announce a clear timetable and perspective. Madam Secretary of State, what are the methods of calculating and financing the premium? Can it be translated into May's wages? Without all these professionals, what would have become of the elderly, very affected by this virus, who could no longer be accommodated in intensive care, cut off from their families and condemned to isolation, with the serious consequences that this entails? There is another part of our health care system that must not be forgotten. I would like to mention the staff of private clinics, who have also helped manage this crisis, and private laboratories, who are on the front line at the moment for screening. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, what commitments do you make not to forget them? Your task is still heavy because, beyond this bonus, the same staff, both public and private, both in institutions and at home, are waiting for salary increases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u162	Mr President, I understand your question very well. Let me also commend the work of the medical and medico-social workers who have worked daily and who continue to work in crisis management. Beyond the crisis, they do important work, on a daily basis, with the elderly or in home care services. Many professionals, as you said, rightly question the conditions for the payment of the exceptional premium for home help services that we have announced. The Government cannot decide on the conditions for the payment and financing of this exceptional premium, since this falls within the competence of the departments. It was unthinkable for the Government to decide in place of each of the 103 departmental councils in our country. This is not the case, for example, of staff working in EHPAD, for whom the Government has just decided that health insurance would fund all the premiums. Unlike home support and support services – SAAD – EHPADs have the special feature of being financed by residents themselves, up to 50%, by health insurance, up to about 30%, and by departments under the personal autonomy allowance – APA – up to 15%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u163	On average!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u164	In these establishments, we will therefore pay the health insurance premium. Staff working in home nursing services – SSIAD – who are funded exclusively by health insurance, will also benefit from the premium under the same conditions. As far as SAAD personnel are concerned, I cannot imagine for a moment that the departments will not decide to guarantee them the payment of the covid-19 premium under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u165	Are you going to fund it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u166	We cannot finance it, because these staff belong to the local and regional authorities. We cannot interfere in the management of the latter! Work is under way with the Assembly of the French Departments, ADF. We encourage departments to finance the payment of this premium. For our part, we have taken our share of responsibility for staff who are 100 per cent funded by health insurance, working within the SSIADs. In the institutions we fund at 50%, we finance 100% of the premium payment: we do not demand anything from the departments. In return, we ask them to be flexible and to pay a bonus to the SAAD staff, who are well funded or managed by the departments. I repeat, work is under way with ADF to this end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u167	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u168	The crisis that we are going through has weakened many families and individuals, turning them into precariousness. These people, who were struggling before the crisis, had to cope with a decline in their income, linked to partial unemployment, the end of small jobs and temporary work, and an increase in their expenditure, as a result of the closure of school canteens, the increase in electricity consumption and the weakening of food aid channels. As you said, the Government has put in place exceptional assistance, which, of course, has been welcomed, but which will remain insufficient over time. All the associations bear witness to this: April saw the arrival of a new audience. In recent weeks, the demand for food aid from town halls or associations has exploded at the national level. As a result, associations had to distribute service cheques to unlisted individuals. Despite a very large increase in the number of new beneficiaries in April, the food distribution, which was disrupted in March, has been able to resume gradually, but the reserves of the associations are declining dangerously. Thus, for the first time in its existence, the Meurthe-et-Moselle food bank will have to buy products to cope with the increase in the number of beneficiaries and the disappearance of the stock. In the face of the influx of people to support, these associations will no longer be able to hold. I would therefore like to ask you what concrete support the Government can provide to these fragile and disadvantaged families, to these formidable associations that carry out outstanding and indispensable work, and to those volunteers who act in the shadows for the good of others. In concrete terms, could you provide them with protein products? While many restaurants in colleges, high schools and universities remain closed, could you facilitate and simplify, in terms of liability, the donations of perishable foodstuffs by these public establishments? Finally, could you better support rural grocery shopping, the ones that show us how much our society relies on associations to compensate for all the shortcomings and take care of the most vulnerable? Let's support those who support!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u169	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u170	Mr President, thank you for your question on the subject of food aid. As I said, food aid is managed by four major associations, four major associations that everyone knows: the Restos du coeur, the Secours populaire, the Red Cross and the food banks. However, food aid is mainly financed by the State, amounting to €115 million, some of which comes from the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived – Europe is, again, present and important on this subject. In addition to this, there is an expenditure of €350 million linked to the challenge of making donations from individuals and businesses, as well as the action of local and regional authorities, which also play an important role – I am thinking of the CCAAs and the departments, which contribute €250 million. It is this network that can provide a response to the problem of food aid, which the State is not alone in managing, on the contrary! We have seen an increase in demand in times of crisis. We have responded to the difficulties of families by providing them with exceptional solidarity aid and abundant funds for food aid of EUR 39 million – one third of an additional budget – that have benefited families directly through emergency food cheques. In terms of deadlines, the envelope dedicated to these cheques was validated on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday; We ordered checks on Wednesday, and they arrived in the prefectures on Friday. Thus, in less than 72 hours, they were already distributed to families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u171	No, they had arrived in the prefectures! That doesn't mean they were distributed to families!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u172	To the families, then, behind... It was important: we had to respond to the emergency! To support the associations, we have provided €25 million, of which €18 million will be paid to network heads at national level – to all associations that have requested it, at national level, and not only to the four largest ones – and €7 million will come back to local associations that will apply for a grant to buy additional food. But you're right, MP, we need to go further. In the context of the crisis, we called on the Prefects and the Anti-Poverty Commissioners to coordinate work with associations and communities, in particular, to ensure that food aid is maintained, that distribution is adapted and that it goes where the needs are. We have also created a guide explaining to associations how to recover more food and redistribute it in good conditions. This work will continue after the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u173	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u174	By a decree of 20 April 2020, you postponed until 1 January 2021 at the latest the decision to grant recipients of personalized housing assistance the contemporary calculation of the said APL with regard to income, on the same principle as the levy of tax at source. So what can we say to Chantal, for example, who was a very modest retired person who was pursuing a part-time professional activity which she had to stop for health reasons? She lived for a year with only 400 euros a month of retirement, her income from previous years, though modest but taken into account, preventing the payment of the APL, the allocation of the RSA or the ASPA – solidarity allowance to the elderly – because of the lack of contemporaneization of income with the rights to the APL. In the crisis situation that we are experiencing, which has reinforced social injustices – as we have all seen – would it not be appropriate to move forward with the application of this contemporaneity of resources and aids or, at the very least, to allow the neutralisation of the taking into account of the previous resources by the CAF and the MSA – Agricultural Social Mutuality – so as not to leave in a social desert French people who are trying to keep their dignity at large?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u175	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u176	Mr President, thank you for your support for this important reform of the APLs in real time. I remember that this reform has often been criticized in this House – sometimes even, I must say, on the right side of this House...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u177	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u178	[[Smile]] Not by you, not by your neighbor, Mr. Bazin... I believe I have said in this Chamber that this reform would be all the more important in the less happy days, when it would be a real safety mattress. The example you give is quite telling: people who lose their jobs or experience difficulties see their APL paid according to their situation two years ago. Fortunately, there are some abatement mechanisms that reduce the difference somewhat, but the reference for calculating the allowance is a two-year situation. I would like to say that the reform is ready. We had to press the button on April 1st. If we have not done so, it is because the personnel responsible for the implementation of this reform are those of the CAF – the same ones who, on the ground, day-to-day, accompany the most fragile audiences during the crisis and thus see their hourly availability reduced. However, their mobilization is necessary for the implementation of this important reform, which will result in the modification of the reference income of more than 6.5 million beneficiaries. On my proposal, the Prime Minister therefore signed a decree postponing the implementation of this reform until the end of the year at the latest. However, the objective is very clear: we want to implement the reform as soon as possible, well before the end of the year, as soon as we have the resources to support it. I repeat: technically, the reform is ready, but we still have to deal with the issue of accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u179	Between May and December, so...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u180	I would like to take this opportunity to draw my hat from all the CAF teams, who have managed to complete the development of the reform we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u181	The next question is by Mr Pierre Vatin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u182	Here I am speaking for our colleague Vincent Rolland, Member of Parliament for Savoie – you will see that there is no connection with the Oise... My colleague wishes to draw your attention to the situation of seasonal workers who did not benefit from partial unemployment during the health crisis of spring 2020. Indeed, in the haste of the implementation of the confinement, with the administrative closure of the winter sports stations, a number of companies have closed their doors by offering employees to sign an amendment to their employment contract. In this particular period, both seasonal workers and entrepreneurs were not always informed of the arrangements put in place by the Government; At the end of the contract, they were unable to benefit from partial unemployment until 15 April. Hundreds of seasonal workers are now deprived of unemployment rights, in a precarious situation, in difficulty to return to work in tourist areas, given the uncertainties over the coming summer season. For them, the facilities established by the Government have been of no use. That is why my colleague Vincent Rolland would be grateful if you would reassure us of the measures that the Government intends to take specifically for these seasonal employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u183	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u184	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u185	Your comments are quite correct, Mr. Congressman. It is for this reason that we have put in place the use of partial activity, in order to avoid breach of contract and to limit its number to a minimum. In some territories and sectors of activity, however, there have been disruptions. In this case, the ordinary law applies, with the usual payment of unemployment insurance benefits or the RSA. In this respect, I would like to stress the commitment of certain departments which, in the face of the difficulties associated with the crisis, have decided that beneficiaries of the RSA returning to seasonal employment, particularly in the agricultural sector, could cumulate this aid with their income. This provision ensures that the resumption of activity does not result in a decrease in the amount of the RSA. Communities are committed to promoting the work of seasonal workers. You are rightly referring to seasonal contracts. The Prime Minister and the Interministerial Committee on Tourism, which met last Friday, are currently working on this issue. Here, too, the State has committed itself to investing massively. The Prime Minister announced an investment of more than €18 billion in the tourism sector, also stating that the French could reserve their holidays in July and August and that in case of further confinement, the State would reimburse the advanced costs. Tourism is an important sector to be revived and developed, as well as hotels and restaurants – whether or not linked to tourism. This is a major issue. If everything goes well, the French will have the pleasure of rediscovering France in the coming weeks. It is the responsible behaviour of everyone that will allow seasonal workers to return to the job path. The protection system plays its role, and we have ensured that contracts are kept as far as possible, in order to avoid situations such as those you have described. It is up to us to continue to work with all the actors so that tourism can be revived and to improve the necessary and important work of professionals in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u186	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u187	In the face of an unprecedented health crisis, it must be noted that the necessary measures have been taken to provide prompt and indispensable support to the people and sectors affected by the pandemic. Today, let us once again thank all the people who have mobilized tirelessly to allow us to face this ordeal. However, everyone is aware that the health crisis will give way to a profound social and economic crisis. Everywhere, the brutal cessation of containment activity has brought thousands of people into precariousness. The Government has heard this distress: I welcome the release of exceptional emergency assistance to 4 million families in need. This assistance often complements community involvement. For example, in my municipality of Melun, vouchers were distributed to families whose children ate in the canteen. This solidarity must now be sustained. The social and solidarity economy must be at the heart of the recovery. While physical distancing and barrier gestures have kept individuals away, the crisis has also helped to restore a spirit of solidarity. Each of us has seen in its territory the tremendous solidarity actions that have been implemented. Nevertheless, the world of associations is concerned: after the older volunteers have moved away to protect themselves, the new volunteers – traders, students, partially unemployed workers – who have come to the rescue will find themselves much less available, due to the resumption of their activity. As my colleague Thibault Bazin pointed out, this fear is in addition to the financial distress of many associations that will struggle to recover from the crisis. How can we continue to support this chain of solidarity? How can we support our associations, which are likely to see more people in distress coming tomorrow, while their staff and finances are falling?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u188	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u189	Your question is extremely important, Member. For my part, I believe that it is necessary first of all to take into account the fact that solidarity existed during the health crisis linked to the covid -19 epidemic. I am one of those who consider that the greatness of a country is also measured by its momentum of solidarity. But she was not a victim of the covid-19. It is important to say so and to thank the French for it. Secondly, solidarity depends first and foremost on giving to others, a free gesture that honours those who exercise it and must be supported. The primary role of the State is to support them in their functioning. At the beginning of the crisis, we collectively faced a first challenge: many associations told us of their difficulties when their volunteers, often elderly, ceased their associative activity to confine themselves – which is easily understood. That is why we first decided to organise, coordinate and support all these associations, particularly in terms of human resources. Finally, solidarity must not only be the result of volunteerism towards one another, although, as I said, it must be encouraged because it is the constituent of the greatness of a nation. Solidarity must be the subject of public policy. Three weeks ago, the Ministry for which I am responsible set up a solidarity fund of EUR 5 million to support associations of very close proximity, following the fact that the State had not sufficiently accompanied their actions, while the local authorities had always done so. The state was not in a position to do so: the thousands of associations it finances each year are rather medium-sized associations than very close associations exclusively driven by volunteers. This support is an element of public policy that we must sustain: I announced yesterday that we will not only sustain the EUR 5 million fund, but also double the amount, in order to continue to support solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u190	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u191	Among the many victims not of the covid virus –19 – even if there are exceptions – but of the economic and social crisis that accompanies it, are young people. I would like to refer to the fate of those who are studying or completing them. On the one hand, their end of the year has been very complicated: sometimes brutal shutdown of a student job, difficulties in obtaining reimbursement of expenses incurred to pass exams or a contest, difficulties sometimes also to move, uncertainties about a schedule of exams sometimes delayed to a distant date, internships not completed. The situation is particularly difficult for international students stranded in France. On the other hand, next year will be a complex one. How will those who continue their studies after a late examination or competition find accommodation at the last minute? As for those who will graduate this year, what will be their place, in the current context, in a labour market that is expected to be complicated? In 2020, 700000 young graduates are expected on the labour market. An entry into apprenticeship could complete the course of some of them, but will there be enough opportunities, while companies in certain sectors are experiencing the crisis at full speed? There is no doubt that these companies will have to be accompanied so that they do not stop the encouraging dynamism that apprenticeship has so far experienced – and that you have recalled, Madam Secretary of State. Can you inform us about the arrangements already in place, or which can be put in place, for our young people, at the edge of their entry into working life?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u192	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u193	I have already presented the measures implemented to prevent these young people from graduating from school and leaving without a diploma. Beyond these measures, our goal is to maintain their activity and student status. We have therefore taken into account their financial situation. In particular, at the beginning of the crisis, Ms Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, provided massive support of EUR 14 million to scholarship students. We worked with food aid associations, which were able to distribute the aid as close as possible to young people, especially in university residences, to make up for the closure of university restaurants. This is the first answer we have given. The President of the Republic, in his address on 13 April, also announced exceptional assistance to families and to the most vulnerable young people. A sum of EUR 200 will be paid to 800,000 young people. Whether they are students in difficulty or young people who have lost their jobs, all will receive this money in the next few days. We pay particular attention to the ultramarine students, who have remained in the metropolis because of the confinement and who will not be able to return home during the summer. Field work was carried out with them. They will be among the recipients of exceptional assistance, unless they are among the scholarship students assisted by the measures announced by Mrs Vidal. We will also look after the situation of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 who are not students and who receive housing subsidies. That is why we wanted to give a broad prism to our actions, without limiting ourselves to students. It is on the precariousness of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 that we act, ensuring that their needs are met quickly and concretely. We would like to pay tribute to the young people who, despite their difficulties, have been involved in solidarity actions. Many have provided important support to associations to replace senior volunteers who had been asked to stay home to protect themselves from the epidemic. The young people, in turn, are committed to community solidarity. Finally, beyond the training of young people between 18 and 25 years of age, mention should be made of the support provided by the local missions, which play an exemplary role, including the guarantee of young people and the CAPEA integration allowance – a contractualised path of accompaniment towards employment and autonomy. Nor should we forget the work done in connection with the Minister of Labour for the development of training and apprenticeship. These actions are necessary for everyone to find their place according to the profession they have chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u194	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u195	In this period of health and economic crisis, there is no longer a need to recall the ills that are affecting our fellow citizens, especially the most precarious. Fortunately, the State is responding to this increase in insecurity, thanks to existing aid but also thanks to the new exceptional solidarity measures for the most modest households. However, while the introduction of these aids is to be welcomed, the situation remains perfect, particularly because of the importance of non-use of rights. It is even more dramatic at this time. It is estimated that about one-third of people who may be eligible for assistance as varied as the APA – a personalized autonomy allowance –, the AAH – an allowance for adults with disabilities – or the RSA, do not receive them. We cannot accept this situation which accentuates the precarization of the most fragile among us, in breach of the principle of fraternity, which must nevertheless guide each of our public policies. The solution to this situation, which our colleague Said Ahamada has begun to mention, could lie in the establishment of a universal income that would meet the values of our motto Freedom, Equality and Fraternity. The establishment of such a mechanism would, in essence, make it possible to solve completely and definitively the problem of the non-use of social aid. The reform of the source levy has given us the technical means of this revolution of national solidarity. Do I really need to say more? Many studies and work by recognized economists have thwarted the arguments against universal income. The difficult period we are going through can, I am convinced, turn into a social opportunity: an opportunity to innovate, to create. Questions about our model are growing, reflecting strong social aspirations. Perhaps we could take advantage of this period to go further and invent a French version of the universal income, taking into account the criticisms I hear, and perhaps the experiments implemented. I therefore invite us collectively not to show any complacency on a subject of the future: this opportunity for our society to benefit from an innovation, as was once the case with mutuals or social security. Madam Secretary of State, Minister, I will go straight to the point: before all these arguments, what elements can you convey to us on the establishment of a universal income in France so that, in this crisis as in the following, the most precarious people are the best protected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u196	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u197	You are asking two questions: the question of the non-use of rights and the question of the universal income of activity. As far as the first point is concerned, we have chosen that the exceptional solidarity aid should be paid automatically, so that the beneficiaries do not have to take any steps. The rate of appeal is relatively high, as it is the family benefit funds and the MSA who pay the aid according to the criteria we have communicated to them. As a result, it was received as early as last Friday by more than 4 million households, so that 5 million children were able to benefit from it. The total amount is significant, amounting to EUR 900 million. With regard to the problem of non-use of rights, we have seen that some experiments are working, such as data mining – data exploration. It is a matter of checking that all the rights are open and, if they are not, of contacting them, by exploring the files of the beneficiaries. This approach was reinforced during the crisis: in the context of what we call the "expanded rights appointments", agents of the family allowance funds took the time, because they were on telework, to call the beneficiaries one by one to take stock of their personal situation and to verify that they touched all their rights. Otherwise, they helped them claim them. It is in this direction that we must work. It is often said that associations are the last bulwark. Let me reverse the formula: they are rather the first bulwark. When families we didn't know get closer to the support services because they need food aid, that is where we must concentrate our efforts to combat this phenomenon of non-recourse. This is the objective of the partnership we have set up with the family branch of social security, the Restos du coeur and soon other associations. Volunteers are trained to ensure that those they receive receive everything they are entitled to. This is an opportunity to inform each of its rights. With regard to the universal income of activity, our objective is to introduce a clearer and simpler control of our protection system. We are talking about the protection of the twenty-first century: the stakes may be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u198	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u199	Minister, my question concerns the situation of homeless people. This population at risk must be considered a priority public in terms of protection. But they were already the great forgotten at the time of confinement: the streets had to be emptied so that they would become more visible. Government services, associations and communities then mobilized. Their work has been valuable, if not vital, and has enabled as many people as possible to feed themselves and live in satisfactory sanitary conditions. But what happens to these audiences at the time of the deconfinition? While the Government warns us against an uncontrolled deconfination, you have scheduled the closure by 31 May of the 14,000 places released as part of the winter plan. By this decision, you put hundreds of homeless people at great risk. What will become of these audiences whose daily life is incompatible with the barrier gestures, distancing or wearing the mask? On the other hand, putting all these people back on the street would be missing the opportunity to act on their behalf long-term when they had regained some human dignity, a roof, a bed and a shower. We are convinced that it is possible to find places and accompanying persons to ensure their protection at this time, which remains delicate in many respects. Minister, when we protect the poorest, we all protect ourselves. What measures do you intend to take to ensure the accommodation of these people in great fragility?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u200	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u201	I know too much of your honesty, MP Bricout, to think that the mistake you are making is due to something other than a lack of communication: it has never been a question of closing the 14,000 seats open during the winter period by 31 May. On the contrary, I announced on the first day that the end of the winter truce would be postponed. It is true that this postponement has two consequences – perhaps a lack of clarity –: not only does it prohibit any use of law enforcement to carry out a rental expulsion, but it also extends the protective devices planned for the winter period. In other words, every extension of the winter truce allows us to keep open the homeless reception system we created for the winter period. The 14,000 seats you mention will therefore remain open after 31 May. The majority voted to extend the winter truce until 10 July. Nor can I let you say that nothing had been done for the homeless before the confinement. We are extremely numerous in our daily struggle against this scourge of homelessness and the resulting human tragedies. Even before the confinement began, we sheltered 160,000 people every day. The number is so important that it's hard to believe. Yet it is the reality of precariousness and the measure of what is owed to these most fragile audiences. During the confinement, we opened 20,000 additional places, including 12,000 via the requisition of hotel rooms. We opened 90 centres to accommodate homeless people with covid-19, who, if they did not need to be hospitalized, could not stay in the centres either. You see that we have done a great deal of work, aware of the need to pay particular attention to these very fragile audiences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u202	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u203	This crisis has shown us the essential role of the thousands of people who work in the homes of our seniors in particularly delicate conditions. On 11 May, in an official press release, the Government announced a bonus for EHPAD personnel. According to this press release, "this premium will also be paid in home support and support services". This good news has been widely relayed by the DPA, the Division of Administrative Staff and Medical and Social Affairs, various political groups and myself. Today, however, uncertainties remain. This premium will remain at the discretion of the employing structures. In the absence of financial support and lack of agreement from the departments, you put these structures, whether public or private, before a often difficult choice, given the financial difficulties they already face. There is no doubt that this premium will be of varying geometry at best. In the case of employees who work with private employers, this is the most complete fog. Home workers are once again divided, forgotten or even despised. However, this bonus is expected as a first sign of gratitude to restore the confidence necessary to start the long journey towards a lasting recognition of these professions. How do you want to approach the reform of their collective agreement or the project on old age and autonomy under such conditions? Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm that you are still looking for financial and technical solutions to ensure that this bonus is granted to all living aids, regardless of the structure that employs them and their status?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u204	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u205	Mr President, the state will pay an exceptional premium to professionals working in the EHPADs, who are 50 % funded by health insurance. Employees in the home nursing services, SSIADs, will be entitled to an exceptional premium since they are 100% funded by health insurance. Therefore, assuming all its responsibilities, the State will pay the premium if there is funding from health insurance. We worked on this issue with the departments and the exchanges continue with the Association des départements de France – the minister met with President Bussereau. The State does not have to replace the departments: it is up to them to pay an exceptional premium to their employees, since they are paid 100 per cent by the departments. This also applies to social workers whose work is essential for child welfare. Work is under way. The State cannot compel departments to pay the premium; We can only draft a decree enabling them to do so. As I speak to you, the Assembly of the French Departments does not wish to communicate on this point. It will be up to every departmental executive and every elected member of the department to decide. The State, for its part, will assume its responsibilities: if there is funding from health insurance, the premium will be paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u206	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u207	Madam Secretary of State, you have announced that you want to reward the commitment of hospital and EHPAD staff in the fight against covid-19. The intention is good and we must salute it, but a simple bonus is not enough: it is a real revalorisation of wages that will be necessary, if we want to pay these jobs for their fair value. There have also been forgotten of your various ads: I am thinking in particular of home helpers. Realizing the essential acts of everyday life, these dedicated professionals are indispensable to thousands of often elderly people, who are also the first victims of the covid-19. Despite the risks and the unfortunate lack of protective equipment, the professionals ensured the continuity of their activities with the priority families. In this difficult context, it is important to hear the claims of these personnel. They demand, in particular, to be supplied with protective equipment, to benefit, in the same way as carers, from all screening tests, in order to be able to continue their work calmly, and finally to have their profession officially recognised, through the allocation of the premiums already provided for carers but also the approval of amendment No 43 of the sectoral collective agreement on jobs and remuneration, or the maintenance of the allocations for non-tariffed services. In general, they expect a law on autonomy and old age that includes measures commensurate with their commitment. Madam Secretary of State, you know the essential role that home helpers played during this health crisis: how do you intend to improve their status, especially in rural areas, in order to strengthen this essential link in the health and social system?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u208	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u209	It is indeed home-keeping, Mr. Member. Whether in rural, peri-urban or urban areas, the issue is the same and, beyond the crisis, it is the whole issue of the dependency provisions. We have already provided financial responses through the latest Social Security Financing Bill, but we need to go further as these stakeholders are important for home care, not only in this period of crisis, but on a daily basis. Beyond the question of bonus, we must find ways to make these professions attractive, to value their work and to recognise their social role with our seniors, while allowing them to be kept at home for as long as possible in good conditions. All these issues are linked to the issue of caring for dependency, old age and autonomy, and will be the subject of new measures under the next Social Security Financing Bill. As I said, we are taking on our responsibilities as we have decided to pay a premium to salaried professionals receiving health insurance funding. The State will not pay bonuses to staff in the home care services run by departments or associations, but we encourage departments to do so. Beyond the current crisis, we must work on these issues of home maintenance and the enhancement of these professions. These people put their heart to ensuring that the elderly have the opportunity to live at home in good conditions: they must be given the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u210	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u211	All too often, Madam Secretary of State, we forget to talk about the world of associations, which is so important for the social bond and the values of mutual aid and solidarity in our country, and which is also struck by this crisis. For example, social and food aid associations, which have been in great demand since the beginning of the crisis and which have already been weakened by the end of the aided contracts, have seen their numbers drop sharply. Citizens of the civic reserve who had been mobilized are returning to work, while seniors, who make up a large part of the volunteers, are invited to stay at home. It is imperative to accompany these associations, which are already drawing on their reserves to meet the current demand. Cultural associations are also not spared. They cannot envisage a resumption of their activities and although it has been decided to maintain their subsidies, they remain largely insufficient. Thus the Vosges Association of the Bussang People's Theatre had no choice but to cancel its 2020 summer season, which had never happened since the Second World War. State support amounts to only EUR 400000 for a budget of EUR 1.2 million. Without the revenue from ticketing and related activities, how can we ensure that the contracts of its eighty intermittents are taken over, not to mention the local suppliers – restaurants, hotels – who will be directly affected by this cancellation? I could cite many other leisure associations, sports or other, as they are vital to our territories. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that their situation does not become even more precarious and that they can resume their activity quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u212	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u213	Mr. Deputy, you are questioning the Government about the financial situation of associations. Let me remind you that everything we have put in place for companies, such as the partial business arrangement or the state guaranteed loan, associations can also benefit – they have used these tools extensively. It was necessary to maintain employment contracts, thus maintaining culture, sport and all the activities they could offer. We have a rich association in France, our country has built on this sector; We need to maintain this type of activity. In fact, we have ensured that the many elderly volunteers can be confined and that young people and students take over. With this in mind, particularly with regard to food aid, I signed a letter a few days ago to the prefects – it should be sent tomorrow – in which we ask that coordination with the local authorities for food aid be maintained and, since the resumption of economic activity will prevent some of the new volunteers from continuing their commitment, that contacts with universities and students be encouraged so that they can invest, in particular with food aid associations. As Minister Julien Denormandie pointed out, we have also maintained the initial schedule of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, and the Prime Minister has signed a circular asking the administrations to maintain all the subsidies that the state had committed itself to paying to associations in 2020, even if the planned events cannot take place. You also adopted, on 24 April, the increase to 1000 euros of the ceiling of the "Coluche law", which entitles individuals who donate to associations engaged in the fight against precariousness to a tax deduction of 75 per cent, compared with 66 per cent previously; Given that this ceiling was previously set at 552 euros, this is an important gesture. We are ensuring that all the levers available to associations – volunteering, grants, donations – are activated, because we have a particularly important network of associations in our country that we must maintain. The work of the associations is carried out by volunteers and employees, and it is the good coordination of all these actors that matters. Local authorities and the State will always be at their side to facilitate their daily work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u214	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u215	At the beginning of the year, the previous Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, had announced that it would make older age a government priority for 2020. The health crisis that we are going through has proved, in spite of us and in a painful way, the urgency of legislating on the subject. The epidemic of covid-19 has stressed, if necessary, that just like the health care workers in the city and in the hospital, the professionals of the medical and social sector are indispensable to the proper functioning of our society. At home or in institutions, their unwavering commitment has helped slow the spread of the virus and mitigate the effects of containment on the most vulnerable and their families. I would like to thank them very warmly for their dedication and mobilization despite increasingly difficult working conditions. Indeed, the health crisis has highlighted the dysfunctions of our system of care and support for the elderly or persons with disabilities; I will mention just a few of them: the shortage of staff in EHPAD, the exhaustion of professionals, the lack of recognition of home helpers as major actors in the care of dependent elderly people, the need for respite of family carers or the need to reform the pricing for EHPADs, now of extreme urgency. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] The time has come to recognise and value the work of these professionals in a sustainable manner. During confinement, good practices were locally proven, and all the measures endorsed by the field actors were compiled in Dominique Libault's report. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us when you are going to submit to Parliament this long-awaited text by all those involved in the medical and social sector and, above all, by our elders?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u216	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u217	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u218	The honourable Member, the professionals in the medical and social sector, as well as the close caregivers of vulnerable people – whom we must not forget and whose action we must welcome during this crisis: despite the isolation, they have made a bulwark – have acted with great solidarity. As you pointed out, we had started working on the subject before the crisis; In particular, a major project had been launched for the upgrading of the professions of the old age, with the creation of a "large age" premium of 100 euros net per month in the EHPADs, an unprecedented rate of change in the wage bill in the home help industry in 2020 in order to reassess the lowest wages, and the higher amounts paid by the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy, the CNSA, in support of the actors of home help. We have also initiated a total overhaul of the training of health-care workers, including the completion of the selection tests at the entrance to the training institutes. As you said, as a result of the crisis, new measures have been taken in favour of the professions of old age – I am thinking in particular of the incentive mechanism that we have put in place for nurses working in the EHPADs. We will soon have to take stock of these emergency measures. I am not going to go back to the announcement that an exceptional premium has been paid in EHPADs and SSIADs, but it is in this context that we have responded to the crisis and that we need to consider post-crisis. We will have to continue our efforts to increase the attractiveness of the professions of the older age, in conjunction with the departmental and regional councils – because we are working with them on this issue too: the state can do nothing alone. It is by working with all the actors, departments, regions and also common, through the CASCs, who are also working to keep at home, that we will find the solution. As the Minister for Solidarity and Health has pointed out this weekend, a level of pay should be rapidly achieved, at least in line with the European average, for nurses in the hospital sector, certainly, but also for home help. It is a profession which is now essentially feminine and which will have to be valued and made attractive. So many construction sites will be opened in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u219	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u220	The hospital held. The health care system was shaken, but the caregivers were simply formidable: generous, bold, courageous. We talked about war: they were at the front every day. The French were not mistaken, and they applauded them every night. As a result, you must meet this requirement, Madam Secretary of State, because you are in charge of it. And you have to understand that the two silos of access to care, with the opposition between the public and the private, well, it's over, it's definitely over: those of the private went to help those of the public, and vice versa. I hope we get out of this terrible ordeal. When will we end up understanding that telemedicine, whose meter, previously blocked to 5000 daily consultations, has passed, with the crisis, to 950000, is a solution? When will one end up understanding that the hospital groups of territory, until then partitioned and remaining in the self, public hospital with public hospital, well, one must open them widely to the private – and that it is not an option, but a generalized opening? When will we end up understanding that the CPTS, the territorial health professional communities, which have been great in the approach of the covid -19, we must leave them freedom, that they must no longer have to lift their finger constantly to ask the ARS for permission to take beautiful initiatives? When will we end up understanding that in order to combat medical desertification – a subject on which so many proposals have been made – we must act on what you were talking about earlier, Madam Secretary of State, namely the attractiveness of careers? This is the main problem: 30% of caregivers, nurses, leave the career after ten years! It must never be like before. This requirement is up to you. It didn't happen a day without us, on every bench, applauding the tremendous commitment and professionalism of the men and women who work in the health community. But for nothing to ever be like before, you have to hear these simple messages that I'm trying to send you – like Jeanine Dubie on the EHPADs or the addiction bill, which will have to be not an extra refit, but a big project; We owe it to our elders and to national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u221	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u222	Mr Vigier, you are right to raise the issue of cooperation between health professionals in the territories, particularly in the context of the epidemic that we are experiencing. It must be noted that, since the beginning of the programme, health professionals have increased their inventiveness in order to adapt the offer to the growing need for care of the sick. This was the case in the hospital, where, hand in hand, caregivers and heads of institutions managed to multiply by three the capacity for resuscitation by breaking down the barriers between public and private; It was through this cooperation that they were able to find solutions. In city medicine, everyone was able to see the mobilization of doctors, nurses, pharmacists – to name but a few of these three professions – to adapt the offer of care: organization of the dedicated flow of patients with covid -19, development of telemedicine – you recalled the figures: almost 1 million teleconsultations while still a few weeks ago there were only 5000 – and telecare, with the consolidation of the role of pharmacists. Health professionals told us: during the crisis, synergies emerged throughout the national territory, new cooperations, projects of professional communities were created. It is to such answers that we must reflect together. I would like to commend not only the exemplary commitment of health professionals, but also the technical support of the staff of regional health agencies. It was through consultation between city medicine, public hospital, private institutions, ARS and local authorities that we were able to find solutions. This incredible dynamic of cooperation and coordination between professionals validates the strategy put in place since 2017, which consists of trusting the actors on the ground, giving them the technical tools to talk to each other – in particular, you said, through the CPTS – and financing them in a sustainable way: thanks to the interprofessional agreement signed with the health insurance, the most important CPTS will be able to receive nearly 400,000 euros annually to organise. It is from the territories that we must build our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u223	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u224	There is concern that the health and economic crisis will lead to the third five-year social crisis. If, for the first two, the yellow vests and the pension reform, the responsibility of the President of the Republic was entire, it is of course less in the latter. However, as he was unable to respond to the previous ones, there is a fear that he will not be able to respond to the one that is coming. This social crisis will, we all fear, be marked by an explosion of unemployment. This will, of course, be accompanied by a shortage of job opportunities. How can we ensure that our compatriots, those who elected us, those whom we represent, those whom we must serve above all, are the first to find a job? I see two rather simple solutions, and especially inexpensive for our public finances. The first is to put an end to seconded work, which would also help to fill the funds of our social organizations. The second is the establishment of the national priority. I would point out to the professionals of indignation that priority does not mean exclusivity. There is no question of preventing the work of a person of foreign nationality; What is being discussed is, as is being done in many other countries, particularly in the case of your friend Trudeau, that, for a position, the candidate of French nationality should be given priority over that of foreign nationality. I know that part of the employer is not in favour of it, because the work of foreigners makes it possible to reduce wages substantially. If, in many sectors, wages are so low – especially among those who worked in the shadows during this crisis – it is partly because of the absence of any national priority. Madam Secretary of State, Minister, my question is simple: on August 10, 1932, a law was passed protecting the national workforce during the Great Depression following the 1929 crisis; Do you intend to present, in the same spirit, a text in order to remove seconded work, to establish the national priority and thus to respond to the social crisis arising from the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u225	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u226	I imagine you will go and explain this proposal to the hundreds of thousands of French workers posted to other European countries. I also imagine that you are opposed to the game that has been playing for a few days at the national level, which consists of wanting to build the world after the ideas before, implying that the crisis has come to make you right. I think I can say that you're just playing this game, Mrs. Le Pen. What I remember from the world before is an unemployment rate of less than 8% for the first time in many years; It is because we had re-created industrial jobs, which had not happened for more than 15 years. It is the solutions in the areas of taxation, economics, training, education and business support that have made it possible to break out of the patterns of a society frozen with preconceived ideas. Yesterday, perhaps even the day before yesterday, you relied on the dogmas of this society; Now you explain that the world of tomorrow will also have to rest on them. But before the health crisis began, it was by freeing myself from these dogmas that the Government to which I belong had accomplished all this. I am convinced that his economic policy was good. Madam Member, I will give you the substance of my thoughts. Whether it is the exit of the euro or the fight against posted workers, I am deeply convinced that the proposals that your party has been taking over for weeks, months, years or even decades do not in any way constitute a vaccine, or even a remedy, either for the health crisis that we are going through or for the economic and social crisis against which we are fighting with all our strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u227	We have completed the questions on the urgent social measures to be taken in the face of covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-18-O1213.u228	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Debate on the consequences of the reform of unemployment insurance. The meeting is adjourned.
