ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u1	The next item is the questions on response policies for hospital workers on strike. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u2	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, these are the words of Virginia, manipulator in medical electroradiology at the Bicêtre hospital: "Are we not sufficiently confronted with emergencies, so that we are not able to benefit from the lump sum risk premium? Are we not important enough, so that we can be allowed to work understaffed, that our crews of stretchers should be abolished, that we should not replace absences? Are we not productive enough, so that the number of patients scheduled for vacation is constantly increased? Many of my colleagues think that we are doing an exciting job, but passion is becoming disillusioned. » You will remain in history, Madam Minister, like the one who refused to listen to the demands of the caregivers on strike for almost a year, an unprecedented mobilization. The one who sends the police to requisition the caregivers at home, the one who refuses to hear the suffering, to the point that nearly 1200 doctors threaten to resign from their administrative duties, never seen in the history of France, to the point that emergency workers inject insulin in front of your ministry by threatening to commit suicide to make you hear reason, to the point that caregivers pour cotton-tiges in front of this same ministry to treat your deafness. You will remain in history as the minister of a breathless health system, who ill-treats caregivers and patients, the minister of the seventh richest country in the world who does not even respect access and the right to health for all, the minister of health commodification who slowly kills the public hospital. Your health policy boils down to a bleed: 600 million euros of savings are being imposed on the public hospital again this year, while the public hospital service has already suffered 8 billion savings in ten years. But since the 18th century, it has been known that bleeding causes death! Hospitals simply ask you to be able to treat with dignity. Health is a common good. Where are the beds, the hirings and the means?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u3	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u4	Madam Member, I will probably remain the minister who, the first in this House, in the first questions to the Government, has acknowledged that our health system is out of breath and that we need to undertake a major reform. I will certainly also remain the Minister of Health, who, for the first time in ten years, has increased hospital budgets and rates. With regard to access to the care of our fellow citizens, I will also remain the minister who introduced the rest at zero charge to allow the French to equip themselves with glasses and hearing aids and finally to get their teeth treated, to lay prostheses, without any remaining burden. I will also remain the minister who has introduced the complementary health solidarity to cover the people who access the CMU and well beyond, because no less than 10 million of our citizens will soon have access to a complementary health care without paying a cent or, at worst, a maximum of 1 euro a day. Yes, I will remain the Minister of Health who is transforming the health system in depth, both in the liberal sector, to fight against medical deserts and to restore hope to the hospital health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u5	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u6	Minister, at the end of January, 1200 doctors threatened to resign. This week, the movement continues, in Rennes, Marseille, Paris, Caen and I pass. More than 300 hospital practitioners have left their administrative and supervisory functions! They thus joined the thousands of hospital staff who were marching through the streets in mid-November. What are they asking for? A hospital budget that follows the natural evolution of health spending, the reopening of beds and the hiring of staff. When will you hear them? Nurses in the operating room, anaesthetists, radio manipulators, threatened by the pension bill which provides for no longer recognizing the penitence of their profession, stretchers, fire safety officers who have no recognition, laborers, caregivers, doctors, technical service agents: all hospital staff have had enough. As for psychiatry, it's better not to talk about it! What have you done for the hunger strikers of the Rouvray, the "perches" of the psychiatric hospital of Le Havre, the campers in front of the hospital of Toulouse? When will you end up hearing them? At the end of January, you gave premiums to some caregivers, those from Île-de-France and those who work with the elderly. You made this decision just a week ago, and already everyone is in the executive offices because no one understands it. You have to work in the hospital public service to be entitled to it, because you're trying to divide in order to rule better. No one understands why some would be entitled to a bonus and not others. Why would those who took the two-month training to become an assistant in gerontology find themselves on an equal footing with their colleagues who did not take this training? By doing so, you underestimate the importance of this essential training. Sectoral premiums are indecent. Divide to better rule has become your motto. If the gauges had an effect, we would not be eleven months away from strike. Eleven months, Madam Minister! But it is true that registering "on strike" on a bandage is less effective in the media than being able to go down the street every day. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If promises were kept, the situation would not be explosive. Numbers: an interhospital collective, the spring of psychiatry, the collective Inter-Urgences, the unions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u7	Thank you, my dear colleague. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u8	Madam Member, you are asking many questions. With regard to the premiums for caregivers, they amount to 100 euros net per month for all those working with the elderly, in EHPAD – a residential institution for dependent elderly people – or in the geriatric services of the hospital public service. It is true that this measure is not intended for private caregivers because the State cannot fix wages in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u9	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u10	The aim was to improve all those who are doing this difficult, painful job. We know how much these professions have lost in their attractiveness and we have made a considerable effort, since 200000 hospital public servants have been receiving this bonus since 1 January. If some did not collect it in January because the pay slips were not up to date, the catch-up will take place in February. All EHPAD caregivers who have completed this training in gerontology will therefore receive a bonus of 100 net euros per month. This measure, which concerns 200000 people as of January, is already effective because we have chosen to upgrade the most difficult and less attractive jobs. Today, the urgency is to restore hope to the hospital in general and to the professions that are most in difficulty there. Today we are suffering the consequences of the massive disinvestment that has lasted for more than ten years. The Government is opening up many positive prospects, which we will have the opportunity to discuss, and is making announcements of considerable importance. You cited the case of psychiatry. You know this has been my priority since I joined the ministry. Her condition is terrible because she has suffered from a lack of investment and support for years. I have just announced an increase in the budget of 140 million for psychiatry in 2020. All psychiatrists welcomed this decision. I'll present the other bonuses later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u11	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u12	Minister, on September 10, 2019, you stated that you were proposing a fundamental solution to the emergency problem. On 26 November, you said that last year's reform, "my health 2022", was in the right direction. Quotes of this kind are numerous, because you have said a lot. However, ten months after the first strikes in the emergency services, more than 1100 hospital chiefs hand over their resignation from their administrative duties, despite the presentation of your emergency plan, Madam Minister, your contradictions have led to an impasse. If you said a lot, indeed, you forgot to listen. You do not listen to this director of the SAMU of Seine-Saint-Denis tell you that the public hospital is falling apart, that after thirty years of work, he no longer recognizes the public hospital. You do not listen to this doctor at the CHU in Rennes who tells you that he is happy to leave this position of responsibility to be no longer responsible for a system that does not work. You don't listen to these nurses at the Robert Debré Paediatric Hospital tell you that they won't last long working 13 hours a day without a break. I am ashamed to see that, in the fifth world power, Robert Debré's nurses are sometimes forced to move little ones to Reims or Rouen, for lack of places in Paris. It is these nurses who receive in full form the anger and the legitimate sadness of families far away from their babies. The public hospital is on its knees. He does not ask for small advances, but to rise up. It does not ask for concessions but for a revolution, the revolution of completely overthrowing the last ten years of budgetary destruction. What you're not doing. The personnel involved do not ask for alms. How can it be justified that their wages are below the OECD average? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You are the Minister of Health, but also the Minister of Solidarity. This solidarity was manifested last Sunday when, in front of Robert Debré Hospital, a large human chain, in which I participated, united all the demonstrators around a joint project: the defence of a public service where one takes care of the French. Show yourself to this solidarity, ma'am! When will you take a real emergency plan for the public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u13	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u14	Mr President, my action is not limited to announcements. I share the findings of the carers. For leaving the public hospital three days before being a minister, I know what he's been living for twenty years: a major disinvestment. That is why I chose to increase hospital fees, i.e. the hospital budget, and to return to institutions, at the end of the fiscal year, all the funds put in reserve, which no health minister had done before. You'll tell me it's normal. That is true, but we have done so and we are committed to continuing to increase these rates in the coming years. However, now that you have voted for a far-reaching reform for the organisation of health in France "my health 2022", it is important to apply it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u15	It's not the organization, it's the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u16	We must better organize city medicine and fight against medical deserts, linked to the decline in medical demography, which the hospital suffers. I'm going with the public hospital today to help it rebuild. I'm reinvesting. I received the Inter-Hospitals collective ten days ago. I proposed that they work together to implement the measures and review them in a month's time to see whether the measures announced were actually implemented in hospitals, particularly those linked to the investment budget, since 150 million euros were allocated to hospitals in January. I also offered them to think together about other measures. They denounced governance issues. I agree with them and we will work to remedieate hospital governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u17	What's needed is means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u18	I agree that we should take further action on salary adjustments in the hospital public service. I asked for a report from the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance on the salaries of caregivers. All this work is under way. Now, the situation on the ground needs to progress. The money is there, the investment budgets are released, premiums have been granted to revalue the staff under stress. We don't catch up in one or two years, twenty years of disinvestment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u19	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u20	Of course you have taken action, minister. With the legacy you have received, nothing has been done for twenty years except to turn the hospital into a business, still happy that you've done something. As every time you repeat that you have increased the hospital budget, I will tell you that this is not the case because savings have been imposed in return. I can prove it to you and the Hospital Federation of France has also done so in many publications. Above all, bed closures continue, as do hospital or maternity closures. Of course, the remaining zero burden is a step forward for many of our fellow citizens, but it will not be enough to solve the problem of care in our hospitals. With regard to the premiums granted to health-care workers, you take care of the hospital public but you forget the health-care workers of the territorial civil service. And it also seems to me that the state could help non-profit private sector caregivers to benefit from it. Training to become an assistant in gerontology was planned to last two months. It should not be reduced to two days because it is important! The Inter-Hospital Collective, the Spring of Psychiatry, the Inter-Urgency Collective, all the unions of the hospital public service, South, CGT, FO, CFE-CGC, UNSA, CFDT, the organizations of hospital practitioners, the emergency doctors will all be on strike and on the street on February 14. You say you received them ten days ago and promise to receive them again. Having said that, if what you've been doing for two and a half years worked, why would all the public hospital professions be on the street? Why would they be again on February 14, at the call of all trade union and non-union organisations? [["Congratulation" and applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, if they are all on the street on February 14, receive them and tell them, as you tell me, that everything works and that we don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u21	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u22	I never said everything works, MP. If everything worked, I would not have become a minister: I accepted this position for the public hospital, whose degradation I saw. It is not considered that everything works when we know, and unfortunately we have to deal with, a catastrophic medical demography. The country doesn't have enough doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u23	It's not just doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u24	Regardless of the hospital budget, we can invest, facilitate the work of caregivers, raise salaries or encourage delegation of duties, but we cannot create physician positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u25	And other caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u26	Many services are in difficulty due to the lack of doctors, including emergency services and maternity services. This is a problem facing all European countries today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u27	Of course, after years of austerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u28	In response to the great difficulties caused by the lack of doctors, we need to reorganize hospitals to better distribute work among caregivers, to favour organisations that make life easier for them, to relieve them of all administrative tasks, and to ensure that budgets facilitate their work by providing them with high-quality technical platforms. That is the work we are doing, because the number of doctors will not increase for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u29	It's not just doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u30	Yeah, I'm in action. I'm not saying everything's okay, but I'm giving hospitals the means to organize themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u31	No, you don't give them any money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u32	I give them, Mr Coquerel: to take back 10 billion euros of hospital debt over three years, what has never been done in this country is to free up 1 billion euros of cash a year for public hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u33	90 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u34	To give 150 million euros to buy everyday equipment is to act. Granting premiums to 200,000 caregivers this month is an attempt to improve their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u35	A decrease in decreases does not mean an increase, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u36	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But I need to work with caregivers to find out their needs; I receive them regularly, and we work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u37	That's not what they say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u38	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u39	On 28 January, in an oral question-and-answer session without debate, I alerted the Ministry of Solidarity and Health about the situation of fire safety officers in hospitals. I explained that their missions were becoming more and more misguided and that, as a result of the shortage of staff in the various hospital services, these ultra-polyvalent agents had become real Swiss knives of the general operation of the hospital. During this session, I wanted to know the department's position on the possible statutory and salary recognition of these officers. The Secretary of State did not answer me clearly: in her view, in order for the work of these officers to be refocused, the solution would be "perhaps in the answers to the question of hospital funding". Maybe? It means "we'll see well".... Ms. Dubos also referred me to a report from the National Observatory on Violence in the Health Environment, ensuring that the Ministry was engaged, together with the Ministry of the Interior, in a plan to secure health facilities to prevent and combat all forms of violence, ranging from incivilities to the threat of terrorism. She concluded by inviting me to discuss it with you. Yet that was not the purpose of my question, which seemed quite simple to me. So let me rest it for you: can fire safety officers claim a real statutory and wage recognition? I will allow myself a second question since, for many months, caregivers, many collectives and trade union organizations have always alerted you to the malaise of the public hospital. Press releases, music clips, cascades or human channels... With each mobilization, with each of their revolting cries, you say that the answers to their fears are in the four government plans released in 2019. In this case, how do you explain that they are mobilizing again to organize, on February 14th, a new day of action to defend the public hospital, which you even call "the national treasure"?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u40	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u41	Your speech raises many questions, Mr. Member. Since you start with fire safety officers, know that I'm very attentive to their work. Indeed, many public hospitals have not reinvested in several years, which is a problem. This is particularly the case at the AP-HM – Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille – and I have just allocated 330 million euros to the reconstruction of the Marseille hospital. I repeat, no one today can deny that we are investing in the public hospital. Your colleague Pierre Dharréville, who is elected from this constituency, knows how important the needs were: the hospital was old and posed problems of fire safety. Yes, we take the bull by the horns; Yes, we reinvest; Yes, today we are able to propose massive reinvestment plans to all hospitals that have not invested in years. The recovery of the EUR 10 billion debt will also help them to carry out the necessary work. With regard to the hospital in Douai, in your constituency, I would remind you that its debt is 118 million euros, hence its present difficulties. Since it is now his debt that prevents him from investing, his recovery will greatly improve the hospital's cash flow and allow him to embark on new projects and recruit staff. What we are doing today, through the recovery of the debt, is reinvigorating all the hospitals that are too indebted to pay staff and to renovate themselves. Finally, since you talked about emergency workers, I would like to point out that all those who spend more than 50% of their time there – stretchers, radio manipulators, nurses, care workers or reception staff – have been receiving an individual risk premium of EUR 100 per month since August.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u42	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u43	A strong social movement is developing in the country on the issue of pensions, even as the mobilization of hospital staff continues, the concern of which remains very high. Doctors have also been heard: 1200 of them have recently resigned from their administrative duties. The hospital crisis continues. What concerns me the most is the first demand expressed by staff, that they have more colleagues, that they work more. In my opinion, it calls for a strong public impetus. So the main question I want to ask you is: What job plan are you looking at across the country to meet this demand? And, since such a hiring plan must also be a training plan, how do you plan to ensure that the qualifications of staff will be up to date in the years to come? Again, I think many expect a public impetus. The most recent figures indicate that hospital staff, as well as those in the health and social sectors in general, experience severe suffering at work. I would like to know what steps you intend to take to deal with this reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u44	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u45	Mr Dharréville, I think we share the same concern of the public hospital. Since my arrival, I have made a commitment that the public hospital will regain its capacity to recruit, its fluidity of operation and governance, and flexibility to finance projects or to invest in equipment. These commitments have been made and are being fulfilled. The appropriations for the daily investment were received 15 days ago by health institutions. This represents 260000 euros for the hospital centre in Marseille, in your constituency, and 2.2 million euros for the AP-HM. The implementing legislation for the territorial attractiveness premium and the old age premium for geriatric caregivers was published at the end of January, with effect from January 2020; the amounts will be recovered from the February wages. The text entitled to collective interest for all officers of the hospital public service will be published this week. The mission to medicalize governance and simplify the operation of hospitals is under way and is expected to deliver its findings to me in less than two months. Hospital fees, i.e. hospital budgets, will increase over the next three years in line with the commitment made in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. They had already been increased in 2019. The full measures of the "Invest for Hospital" plan will be deployed in 2020, including the recovery of one third of hospital debt, i.e. EUR 10 billion. We are committed to supporting professionals on a long-term basis by improving career management. We also want to alleviate the burden of debt, which is now unsustainable for most institutions and which explains their inability to recruit when they need staff to work. These massive and unprecedented commitments are made for caregivers and patients. You can count on my total determination for the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u46	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u47	The strike initiated in the emergency services in March 2019 gradually extended to other hospital services, with cross-cutting demands: salary increases, increase in staff, reopening of beds, improvement of conditions and organization of work. I would like to highlight the unprecedented effort made for the hospital, thanks to the emergency restructuring pact and the "Invest for the hospital" plan. Thank you: you have heard the professionals about the difficult conditions of their work and put in place an effective policy to remedy it. However, I would like to inform you about the situation of manipulators in medical electroradiology. I met in my constituency, at the hospital center of Saint-Nazaire, the "manip'radio": despite their involvement in the emergencies, they did not receive the risk premium, the payment of which was extended to non-medical personnel. However, they are essential to the management of patients in emergencies and are directly affected by the increased flow of patients. Too unrecognized, this profession deserves our consideration because of the diversity of skills required, which are constantly evolving with the innovation of imaging techniques and teleradiology. In your press release on 16 December, you make radio manipulators eligible for the hazard premium for agents who devote a majority of their time to emergency services, although they are attached to other functional units. In fact, this bonus is not systematic because its payment is left to the free interpretation by the heads of institutions of Decree No 1343 of 11 December 2019. There are sometimes disparities within the same territorial hospital group. So, Madam Minister, what measures can the Government take to ensure equal payment of the hazard premium to radio manipulators? Are they eligible for the collective valuation premium?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u48	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u49	Thank you for your question, Mrs Dufeu Schubert, and thank you for drawing my attention to the situation of radio manipulators while noting that we are acting. You are right: it is all professions, medical and non-medical, that make the hospital live, and radio manipulators are essential to the proper functioning of imaging services. We pay particular attention to this profession, which is in tension in many establishments. A number of measures allow for a better recognition of their skills and exercise. I am thinking first of all of the new measures: the risk premium for emergency personnel, set up last August, totalling EUR 100 net per month, was extended to radio manipulators at the end of 2019 on the condition that they exercise mainly in emergencies; Moreover, they are explicitly included among the beneficiaries of the territorial attractiveness premium for Paris and the small crown, i.e. 800 euros net annual. In addition, many of them will be affected by the arrangements of the "Invest for the Hospital" plan, which will be deployed in the coming weeks, including the collective interest bonus for all professionals engaged in projects to improve the quality of care. The measures accompanying the beginnings of careers, i.e. the public service contract, for those who want to remain in the public hospital, and the recruitment bonus in the hospital career, will also make it possible to enhance their commitment to the hospital public service. Like all professionals, radio manipulators will also benefit from the global reinvestment in the hospital, of the 150 million euros that were paid in January to hospitals for the investment of the daily and finally from the recovery of the debt, which will represent a cash gain for all public hospitals. I suggested to all professionals that they continue a regular dialogue. As I said, I will receive the inter-hospital collective in a month. I propose to them a joint working approach to monitor the implementation of the measures and to open a debate on the remuneration policy for healthcare professionals in France. The debate is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u50	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u51	Minister, the hospital has been left out of the reforms for too long and is now paying for decades of inaction. The serious crisis that he continues to go through has shed a raw light on the suffering of the staff. Their vast protest movement, which affects all hospitals in France, reveals a great number of paradoxes. Beyond the financial question and the means, often brandy, arise the equally problematic one of the human dimension of malaise that is expressed everywhere. All categories of staff report their suffering at work and describe an important turnover, burn outs, abandonments. We cannot stand in the way of a real overhaul of the human functioning of our hospitals. All those we meet in the field talk about the lack of staff and positions, as well as the difficulties in replacing absent persons, recruiting new staff and retaining them, which reveals the disaffection of trades essential to the functioning of services and the discouragement of those who perform them. Being a nurse or caregiver no longer makes young people dream. Those who have embraced this career are increasingly turning away from hospital practice, after a few years of overwork and psychological exhaustion. In addition to these daily difficulties, there is a lack of valorisation of nursing, nursing or hospital workers. Compensation is not the only factor involved: the lack of consideration and the absence of career opportunities are equally burdensome. This distress, which does not leave any question, must weigh in the reform of the hospital. How can we make young people want to choose the careers of caregivers? How can these trades be valued and made attractive? What career development and training can be offered? Can you say more, Madam Minister, about the measures being deployed that are intended to make the professions of healthcare workers truly attractive?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u52	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u53	Member of the European Parliament, changing careers must aim to better recognize the meaning of these professions and their need in society: all French people agree. Several measures have been taken this year to improve the recognition of caregivers, including the risk premium for all those working in emergency services – 100 euros net monthly since last August. The measures taken by the Government provide a salary recognition to 200,000 hospital workers, who will also benefit from the next "investment for the hospital" arrangements that will be deployed in the coming weeks. I am thinking in particular of collective interest for professionals engaged in projects to improve the quality of care – an interest by team or by service. I am also thinking of accompanying staff at the beginning of their careers in the hospital public service, in order to retain them, through the public service contract and the hospital career award, which will concern all professionals. The goal is to encourage them to stay in the hospital. Several other measures will be introduced this year: the creation of a grade in category B, to accompany the second part of the career of nursing assistants, the opening of a concerted project on the reform of the status of hospital practitioner, to encourage doctors to remain in the public hospital, or the acceleration of the development of advanced practices, not only for nurses, but also for other paramedical professions, in order to better distribute the task among caregivers and to discharge doctors from acts that can be shared. I have proposed to professionals to continue a regular dialogue and to build a joint working approach to monitor the deployment of measures and work on the valuation and remuneration of healthcare professionals in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u54	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u55	France today faces the issue of medical deserts, which affects many of our territories, including my constituency of Loiret. Emergencies, which are very frequented by the French, often do not welcome patients of an urgent nature. One of the answers lies in the trust given to nurses in this country, who are rigorous and qualified: we could consider an increase in their skills, after adequate training, to perform mild medical procedures. In addition, three out of four French citizens would be prepared to receive medical treatment by a nurse as part of routine care, and 82% would be prepared to receive a radio or medical analysis from a nurse trained in these prescriptions. The delegation of certain minor tasks from doctors to nurses is therefore expected by the majority of our fellow citizens. Yet, when, for example, a nurse or nurse is now able to vaccinate a patient, the prescription of this vaccine is always a physician's responsibility. I welcome the fact, Madam Minister, that you are in favour of the delegation of certain tasks to nurses. I am pleased that several thousand nurses are being trained in advanced practice, which will enable these professionals to exercise their profession with more responsibilities by 2022 after obtaining a master's degree. Prescription renewals may, for example, fall within their scope of competence. In close association with their team's physicians, these advanced practice nurses will be able to monitor patients with stable health status. Access to care and quality of care must go hand in hand with our national health policy. Madam Minister, what is the status of the delegation of duties for hospital nurses? The legal system should be as close as possible to the needs of patients and to the reality of today's medical practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u56	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u57	There are a number of ways in which doctors and paramedics, including nurses, can better share tasks. I am thinking of the protocol for cooperation between health professionals, which has been enshrined in the law for a long time: the national committee on interprofessional cooperation met for the first time on 24 January. In particular, it is intended to identify practices and cooperation protocols to be deployed among doctors and nurses as a matter of priority. I have also created a cooperation bonus of 100 euros gross per month for hospital public service professionals who are committed to implementing a cooperation protocol, since this represents an additional competence and therefore an additional burden. The decree was issued on September 6, 2019. Two protocols are already published – they can therefore benefit from this bonus: the first, published on November 29, 2019, relates to the request for imaging by an emergency nurse; the second, published on December 27, 2019, concerns heart failure. In addition, seven new cooperation protocols will be published in the coming weeks. They will relate to unscheduled care, including small sutures by an emergency nurse. Another device exists: nurses in advanced practice. In July 2018, three areas of activity were recognized, enabling them to become competent and to obtain the master's degree: stable chronic pathologies, chronic kidney disease and onco-haematology. In the summer of 2019, a new field of activity, opening up training, was recognized to nurses in advanced practice: psychiatry and mental health. Finally, since this autumn, consultations have been initiated to open this area to emergency response, in order to allow nurses in advanced practice to practice in emergencies. More than 20 universities now offer advanced practice training and nearly 600 students are currently enrolled in the first year. A specific status will be granted to nurses in advanced practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u58	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u59	Madam Minister, while hospital staff in Savoie have been mobilised since last spring to demand better working conditions, I would like to ask you about the measures taken in favour of emergency medical services, while alerting you to the need to increase the number of staff in this department, which welcomes many tourists at this time of year. Indeed, while this winter the population in Savoie is rising from 450,000 to more than 1 million, health services work almost on a constant basis. In the emergency department, two additional posts were opened for the winter season. Centre 15 has seen its calls increase by 27 per cent in four years. Of course, two full-time jobs – FTEs – were filled, and half a full-time job was recruited for the winter season. However, this additional 0.5 FTEs per 500,000 tourists cannot meet the needs expressed by both patients and staff. The emergency chain is not respected, as the agents have up to ten calls on hold. You will easily understand, Madam Minister, that this situation is untenable for both health care personnel and patients. It is essential that reinforcements during the winter season match the flow of tourists that Savoie welcomes. It was also essential to combat the vacancy: however, recruitment was becoming more difficult owing to the lack of sufficient attractiveness. While the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, adopted last year by Parliament, will eventually help to reduce the congestion of emergency medicine, at present medical regulatory assistants – ARM – as well as emergency personnel – have not yet received answers to all of their demands. Thus, the fact that the ARM bonus is conditioned by the follow-up of a new training before 31 December 2026 raises many doubts. Minister, how do you intend to deploy the emergency restructuring pact in the territories to ensure decent working conditions for emergency medicine personnel? With regard to tourist departments such as Savoy, how do you envisage organising the reinforcements of health personnel, so as not to exhaust the permanent staff more?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u60	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u61	Madam Member, the French are deeply attached to the emergency department, to which they place great confidence. However, emergency activity in France, as in the rest of Europe, has seen a very strong increase, with 21 million passages in 2017 – this trend is taking place worldwide. Such an increase causes increasing tensions that subject patients and caregivers to difficult situations. I share this diagnosis with all the actors: it is at the heart of the ambitions of the "my health 2022" reform, as part of the emergency restructuring pact that has been deployed since September 2019. A premium of 100 euros net per month is provided for professionals practising in emergencies: 40000 people benefit from it today. A first cooperation protocol, concerning radiological checks, is authorised: it is accompanied by the payment of the first dedicated premiums of 100 euros gross per month for nurses who have prescribed this balance sheet since January. I would also like to mention the funding of 50 nursing homes in 2019 for all emergency services with more than 50,000 visits per year. In addition, funds have been allocated to encourage the direct admission of elderly people between EHPAD and hospital, without passing through the emergency. Pilot hospitals have been identified in each region: they are accompanied to pave the way for organizational developments and accelerate them. Significant and positive changes are therefore within our reach, thanks to the massive and unprecedented means of investing in the hospital, in order to alleviate emergencies: for example, more than 1.5 million euros of national aid, as part of the daily investment in hospitals, have been allocated to Savoie hospitals and their emergency services. New equipment was purchased for the emergency department of the Métropole Savoie hospital centre. The functioning of the reception and secretariat has been improved. A plan to improve working conditions has been drawn up with staff and staff have been strengthened to improve regulation. Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne saw the arrival of reinforcements, with two nursing stations, a nursing aide post and a cardiac aide post.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u62	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u63	Minister, for the past few months, an unusual movement, since it concerns all sectors, from aide-career to professor in medicine, has engaged in public hospitals. This movement emphasizes the lack of resources in public hospitals, despite the many adaptations that have enabled them to achieve a high level of efficiency. I'm elected in Toulouse: you know the Purpan hospital well. This lack of resources, not only in terms of staff but also in terms of care equipment, seems to be partly related to the imbalance between administrative projects and priority medical choices. The Government had taken stock of the situation since, in recent weeks, a significant emergency action had been taken to support the budget of public hospitals. Health professionals welcomed this budget response. It is therefore not permissible to disappoint them. That is why I am astonished by certain statements made by the hospital authorities, which suggest that this budgetary emergency is likely to be allocated mainly to new constructions, whereas it must ensure the proper functioning of the care at the financial level. We know that essential investments are needed in the areas of care equipment, renovation of existing premises and nursing staff. Are the choices of real estate investments that seem to be preferred really land choices? How should these funds be used?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u64	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u65	These are indeed, resolutely, choices of land. Investment in the daily lives of caregivers and patients has been my priority: over the next three years, 150 million euros will be directed each year towards the current investment, the small equipment, the necessary works, i.e. 450 million by 2022. Regional health agencies – RHAs – have been instructed to ensure that the largest number of public health institutions can benefit from this new funding envelope, in particular by prioritizing those with urgent current investment needs. In your constituency, the University Hospital of Toulouse was allocated €1.233 million in January. The use of funds must be part of a participatory framework involving the medical managers of the centres and care units. The first tranche, worth 150 million euros, was paid to the SRA at the end of 2019 and the funds are therefore available for hospitals since January: the speed of the scheme has been welcomed, and will be renewed for the next two tranches, that of this year, 2020, and that of 2021. A first evaluation of the scheme will be carried out at the end of the first quarter of 2020, thanks to a feedback from the SRAs on the actual use of the appropriations by the teams. Here are concrete examples of the current investments chosen by the medical and health care community: the purchase of an ultrasound, defibrillators, anaesthetic care carts, stretchers, medical beds, armchairs, the modernization of elevators, small work to better accommodate patients. The hospital in Châteauroux, which received 244000 euros, has equipped itself with an ultrasound, a shower chair, equipment for stretchers, delivery beds, malady lifts, room chairs for obese patients. They also renewed the beds. This is the realization for the health care teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u66	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u67	I would like to associate my colleague from Haute-Savoie, Virginie Duby-Muller, with my question. On November 20, as part of the emergency plan for the hospital, you unveiled a whole series of measures, Minister, to respond to the grunts of medical and paramedical personnel. It includes, among other things, a net annual territorial attractiveness premium of 800 euros for carers working in Île-de-France who earn less than the median wage. If this is a good thing for the medical staff of Île-de-France, it is a national plan that you have presented, and this problem is unfortunately not only Parisian. Which, therefore, of the other areas of our territory – border areas, urban areas and, of course, tourist areas – in which all the criteria for the cost-of-living premium are also met? Particularly important daily expenses, but also a considerably high cost of real estate, with prices per square metre well above 5000 euros, often long and expensive trips or difficulties of increased recruitment in the health sector due to a different labour code or very attractive wages in neighbouring countries: these are all characteristics that exist in Île-de-France but which are also found in Lyon, Grenoble, Bordeaux, Alsace, Toulouse, Nice, Rennes and Lille, or in Haute-Savoie, due to the proximity of Geneva. As you know, the AlpesLéman hospital, located in Contamine-sur-Arve, but also the hospitals of Thonon-les-Bains, Sallanches or Annecy, face great recruitment difficulties. These difficulties affect not only the hospital sector, but the entire care path. Of course, a high-age monthly premium of 118 euros gross has just been introduced for healthcare workers in EHPAD and hospital geriatric services, but it should also apply to employees working in post-care and rehabilitation facilities, in personal assistance services and in medical and social services. You will agree, Madam Minister, that extending this premium to the cost of living would act as a measure of justice and territorial fairness, in an area that is severely understaffed and is clearly under-attractive, particularly in border and tourist areas. So, do you think that the premium can be extended to other areas of our territory and to other professionals in our health care system?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u68	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u69	At the announcement of the plan "Invest for the hospital" on 20 November, I reaffirmed, alongside the Prime Minister, our objective: to restore the attractiveness of the professions to the public hospital, to improve the daily life and working conditions of hospital teams and to ensure equal access to care for all French people. Since January, we have introduced a territorial attractiveness premium for caregivers, nurses, caregivers, radio manipulators, child care workers, at the lowest salaries, working in hospitals in Paris and the small crown which suffer from severe recruitment difficulties and a large number of closed beds due to lack of staff. These beds must be reopened. But, and I would like to point out, the territorial attractiveness premium is part of a broader approach to creating or extending the benefit of other existing premiums which concern France as a whole. I am thinking in particular of co-operation grants, emergency premiums, premiums for medical regulatory assistants, the old age premium for nursing assistants working with the elderly, collective interest, the development of advanced practices, public service contracts and the hospital career bonus for paramedical staff. All territories now have the tools to respond to the problems they face. You now want to see the attractive premium extended to other professions and territories, including urban or cross-border areas. If I hear that other territories and other professionals can face these challenges, my priority, as I indicated a few weeks ago, remains the deployment of the "Invest for Hospital" measures. However, I propose to launch a concerted approach to pilot the deployment of the measures taken and to study new ones. This is why there is a re-visitation clause with all stakeholders in a month's time: within this framework, the possibility of extending the territorial attractiveness premium can be explored, in the light of hospital priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u70	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u71	Minister, hospital staff are in arrears. It has become evident to public opinion, which has discovered their difficulties in the light of the strike that has been going on since last spring. Despite their passion for caring for others, the disgust of hospital staff disputes with him at exhaustion. This is what I have seen for many months in Drôme Nord hospitals and in the hospital of Valencia: infernal rates of work, to cope with increasing needs when they are already understaffed, lack of material resources, frustration to be unable to provide quality care to patients despite their efforts, difficulties in the profession, which is experiencing them physically and becoming less and less attractive. Hospital staff have not found satisfactory answers to the problems they face in your hospital plan. They don't want scattered bonuses, they want recruitment; They don't want budgetary adjustments, they want real material means; They don't want a light renovation of the building, they want bed openings! And now they're worried about pension reform – especially nurses, who fear getting out of the active category. They do not see how they could hold the infernal cadences until they are 64 years old, while their bodies are loose. Work stoppages are increasing: as you know, minister, this is the symptom of suffering at work. It's time to treat those who care! Madam Minister, when are you going to hear the alarm cry of the caregivers? What about keeping them in the active category, recruiting, opening beds? Expectations are strong, are you going to meet them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u72	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u73	Madam Member, the measures I have taken clearly demonstrate how much we have heard of the difficulties faced by hospital staff. In fact, the plan "my health 2022" was intended to better organize city medicine to relieve the hospital from a number of dysfunctions. Indeed, the French health care system is in fact being disrupted. For the past two years, we have already improved the organization of liberal medicine and discharged doctors. As the difficulty comes mainly from medical demography, doctors should be discharged from certain tasks by better sharing the work among all healthcare professionals. However, for more than ten years, the hospital has also suffered a lack of investment, regularly falling rates, debts that have grown to the point of becoming unsustainable and preventing the hiring of staff. This is why the most important measure of the "Invest for Hospital" plan is the 30% recovery in hospital debt, which will take place at the end of the year. In the meantime, we have already allocated budgets dedicated to improving daily working conditions. We are also the first government to raise hospital rates: after raising them last year, we committed to making systematic progress over the next three years. This is an unprecedented announcement, as rates have been falling for the last ten years. We have announced premiums for caregivers, support for daily investment. For example, an envelope of €500,000 was allocated in January to the Drôme Nord hospital centre, particularly at the Saint-Vallier site, so that caregivers could buy the missing equipment. We have also allocated €750 million for the next two years to reorganise emergency services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u74	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u75	The public hospital is in crisis. In the Alpes-Maritimes, the staff I received at my permanence told me of his anguish, anger and distress. Doctors resign, interns are exhausted; nurses, midwives, caregivers, stretchers, hospital workers work under unacceptable conditions. They always have more patients to care for and less and less time to devote to them. The symptom is deep, it goes back several years. The public hospital has a severe lack of organisation, resources and staff. Unfortunately, the measures in the emergency plan you announced in November are insufficient and do not resolve the crisis. We cannot treat our health care system in depth only with a budgetary bandage: we must restructure it structurally. I see the same difficulties for EPHAD staff: in understaffed, they too need a reorganization to be able to give time, listening, affection to our elders. I am also thinking of interns, who work well beyond the 48 hours of regulation, without mandatory safety rest and under unjustifiable conditions, to the detriment of the interests of patients. Finally, I am thinking of hospital staff, who are helpless in the removal of beds or the closure of services for rationalisation issues. In the Alpes-Maritimes, working conditions create difficulties in recruiting and retaining hospital staff. In addition, as in neighbouring departments, the residential allowance for the hospital civil service is expected to be 3 per cent, not 1 per cent, as the cost of housing is high. Minister, what structural measures do you intend to take to reorganise the public hospital and ensure access to quality and caring public care for both professionals and patients?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u76	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u77	It is clear in your question how much the suffering expressed by caregivers at the public hospital comes from a difficulty in better organizing our health care system as a whole. You've talked about healthcare staff in EPHAD, who, for the most part, are not hospital caregivers stricto sensu, you've talked about liberal medicine, you've talked about emergencies: we see it well, everything stands. This is why, as soon as I arrived, I introduced the "My Health 2022" plan, a component of which aims to organize city medicine so as to better distribute the task among nurses, physiotherapists, pharmacists and doctors, particularly in the follow-up of chronic diseases. Indeed, doctors must be discharged from certain acts. We have also created positions of medical assistants, to avoid administrative work for liberal doctors: by saving them time, they will be able to take care of more patients and thus discharge emergency services. For these services, which receive a lot of patients who do not always have to be there, we create the telephone service for access to care: operational in June, it will help to better orient patients and, when it is not an emergency, to reassure them, in order to avoid a massive influx to emergencies. We have also invested to help emergency personnel. As I said, we've released significant funding so that the public hospital can reinvest in daily life and improve working conditions – day after day, caregivers complain about broken bankers and beds! This month's massive investment will be renewed annually for three years. Finally, we will resume the debt, with the objective of providing EUR 1 billion in cash per year for public hospitals, so that they can reinvest and recruit staff. Depending on the deployment of the plan, a second set of measures will eventually be announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u78	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u79	Minister, allow me to ask you a question that I already asked a few weeks ago in a question-and-answer session in the Government. The malaise in hospitals is great, and due to many causes. You have responded to the material causes: you are the minister who has given a salary recognition, through the granting of specific premiums, who has increased hospital fees, who has given an envelope for the investments of the daily and who has reduced the debt of hospitals. Unease is also linked to organizational causes. In this regard, you proposed a particularly interesting law last year. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support of the bill that I tabled on the points of welcome for immediate care. But the unease of hospitals is also related to a loss of sense for the staff who work there. This loss of meaning also has many causes. We both worked in hospitals. For the past 20 years, all caregivers have seen an over-administration of the public hospital, which stifles its functioning. The heads of departments resign from their administrative functions, when they do not resign to serve in private institutions. What remains of the chief nurses, whom we called chieftains and who, in white coats, worked at the heart of their team? They are now called health executives, dress in plain clothes, away from the sick, and spend their time in meetings! The hospital suffers not only from a lack of resources, but also from a problem of allocation of these resources. According to data from DARES – the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics, which is a department of your ministry, public hospitals have twice as many administrative and non-medical staff as doctors! According to some figures, this over-administration would cost hospitals €5 billion, a colossal sum that could be redeployed to healthcare staff. How will the organizational axis of your "Invest for the Hospital" plan translate into concrete action? Will it allow this administrative chapter to be lifted in order to remobilize the extraordinary forces of our hospitals, which are in search of meaning?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u80	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u81	Thank you for your question, honourable Member. Not all of the various reforms carried out in hospitals in recent years have improved staff's sense of purpose. The association of caregivers, including medical staff, at decision-making in the hospital is a construction site that opens and on which I work. This topic has become a major cause of dissatisfaction, which reflects the very meaning of the work of the heads of service and the staff in charge. Like you, I regret the disappearance of the nursing wardens, who were on the teams. With the measures of the "Invest for the Hospital" plan, we made a clear choice in favour of a better association of caregivers with the governance of the public hospital. A mission, entrusted to Olivier Claris, has the task of concretizing and establishing, as a matter of responsibility, the keys to an effective, participatory and respectful management of everyone in the hospital. I would also like to create the conditions for a renewed debate on the place and recognition of the officials of the public hospital, those heads of service but also health professionals who have been far removed from the care. Work is to be started in the coming months on the future of this essential profession of health professionals. They are essential to the quality of the service rendered, but still insufficiently recognised. The hospital is a human collective, all directed towards care and patients, but also towards excellence and medical progress. He must also be able to take care of those who care and animate the teams on a daily basis. That is why all of the ongoing work on hospital governance, and the role that everyone plays in it, deserves to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u82	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u83	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u84	Minister, a letter of collective resignation was sent to you on January 14. Signed by 1120 hospital doctors, including 600 heads of department, this letter sounds like a warning: the unwavering dedication of our hospital staff is such that resignation can only happen as a last resort – an unfortunate recourse. Our hospital suffers and attracts fewer and fewer vocations. Haemorrhage of caregivers is therefore not desirable. In order to avoid this, last November the Government presented its plan to save the public hospital. The health insurance budget dedicated to the hospital sector for the next three years will be increased by EUR 1.5 billion, of which EUR 300 million will be allocated as of this year. A debt recovery programme of €10 billion over three years aims to reduce the costs of financial institutions and to clean up their financial structure to enable them to invest and transform. A net annual premium of 800 euros will be allocated to 40,000 hospital staff working in Paris, Hauts-de-Seine, Seine-Saint-Denis or Val-de-Marne and earning less than the median wage, i.e. around 1950 euros net per month. This announcement corresponds to the recognition of the specific situation of the capital and its small crown, particularly with regard to rents. In the face of such a serious situation, which endangers the public health service, it would be reassuring to be able to see signs of improvement. Have the housing premiums for hospital staff living in Île-de-France, in particular, been paid? Do hospitals already have the funds allocated for investment, especially in the renewal of equipment? Is our public hospital in the process of being saved? The French need him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u85	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u86	I have, of course, taken stock of the situation, Member, and I hear calls for help from caregivers. The investment of day-to-day care for caregivers and patients is a priority for the Government. I have instructed regional health agencies to ensure that the largest number of public health institutions can benefit from this new funding envelope – a budget of 150 million allocated as early as January, which will be renewed annually for three years – giving priority to institutions with the most urgent needs for current investments. I hope that the use of these funds will be participative: that the needs go directly back to the healthcare teams and that the hospitals bring together their medical managers from the centres, services and care units. The first tranche of €150 million was delegated at the end of 2019 and funding has been available for hospitals since January. For the hospital centre of Poissy-Saint-Germain-en-Laye for example, 640000 euros were allocated from this month of January to buy equipment. A first evaluation of the scheme will be carried out at the end of the first quarter of 2020, by providing feedback from the SRAs on the actual use of the appropriations by the institutions – the comments they have made so far being positive. We have also deployed premiums, in particular for nursing assistants working with the elderly, but also an attractive bonus of 800 euros net per year for staff in public hospitals in Paris and the small crown, as well as bonuses for cooperation protocols, for staff working in emergencies and for the professions in tension. These are solutions to the challenges and challenges faced by hospitals and their teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u87	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u88	My question was similar to the previous one, and I will not repeat it. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to know whether you are considering further emergency measures in the face of the crisis and whether you can reassure the French, who are concerned about the consequences of this movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u89	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u90	Thank you, honourable Member, for asking this question. You're right, the French are worried about these movements in hospitals. Rather than reminding us once again of the funds allocated to the public hospital, I want to reassure you. The public hospital now lives under stress. But the situation is heterogeneous from one territory to another and it is difficult to have a national vision of these movements. The Paris region in particular finds itself in great difficulty, as well as some cross-border hospitals, due to competition with other countries. But other hospitals work almost normally. We have begun to deal with the problem of emergencies, which have seen a massive influx of people in recent years. It seemed essential to us to review the way in which the French access emergencies, in order to avoid unnecessary entrances, as well as the way in which patient flows between emergencies and the hospital are organised, in order to better manage beds. These issues were our priorities last summer. In addition, we have developed a major investment plan. The related budgets had to be voted on; they were in the draft law on the financing of social security in December. Once voted, they were allocated as early as January. Today we are working on the most massive measure: the recovery of hospital debt, to the tune of 30% over three years. This is a very significant measure, which will make it possible to release EUR 1 billion of cash per year for all public hospitals. What will these credits be used for? The French question themselves. They will be used first to renovate the public hospital, to reinvest but also to recruit staff where they are lacking, while the hospital has so far been unable to do so. Our priority is to put the public hospital back in the saddle, to make it attractive again for staff and to relieve them, who work in situations of extreme tension. The French must be reassured: the French model of the public hospital is a national treasure. We are all very attached to it. It is the ultimate refuge, which receives each of us, and it will be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u91	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u92	Hypertension personnel, emergency services on the brink of asphyxiation: if nothing changes, if nothing is done to remedy the deficiencies of the plan "my health 2022", the public hospital, which is now on the brink of the nerve crisis, will indeed be in danger of death. What other barometer than the feelings of healthcare professionals to determine whether or not your measures are up to the crisis? The contestation and anger do not run out. Many hospitals have been on strike for many months. Unprecedentedly, the disarray affects all health workers, from nursing assistants to heads of departments. Last month, 1200 of them resigned. The day before yesterday, at the University Hospital in Clermont-Ferrand, twenty-one heads of department resigned. Yesterday, EHPAD Pasteur agents in Riom filed a notice of strike. Do you hear them? Do you think they're quitting or going on strike out of cheerfulness? The public hospital needs oxygen. The plan "my health 2022" was intended only to buy social peace. The number of vacancies continues to increase – I am not saying it: today it is 29%, compared to 22% in 2009. Premiums are great. Workmates are even better. A partial debt recovery will bring some oxygen, you're right, minister. Are you committed to transparency on this debt write-off? You have announced monitoring campaigns conducted by public accountants on the interim; You're right. Some interim doctors take advantage of the difficulties of the public hospital to choose their place and time of work and to receive exorbitant remuneration, which contravenes the spirit of public service and the principle of providing care to everyone without any financial logic. So, Madam Minister, why not ban this out-of-the-box exercise of medicine altogether? Finally, you are going to blame the previous governments and I am not going to tell you that everything that has been done before was perfect, far from it. But you have been in charge for two and a half years now; It is you who face the greatest crisis that the public hospital has experienced. So, Madam Minister, are you going to take the necessary steps to avoid the collapse of the public hospital, particularly in terms of personnel? Let me tell you again: these are additional colleagues that the teams are asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u93	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u94	Madam Member, the deadline for the allocation of additional appropriations was linked to the fact that the social security budget was to be voted on in December. As early as January, the funds could be allocated to the teams, in particular for the purchase of current equipment. All the premiums are being published, in order to strengthen the attractiveness of a public hospital that needs to recruit paramedical and sometimes medical staff. You are referring to the fact that many posts are vacant. This is especially true, unfortunately, for the positions of doctors. As you know, France is indeed undergoing a problematic medical demography. This is the result of decisions taken in the 1990s, which led to the training of an insufficient number of doctors. We pay the price today, and we need time to train doctors. It is not the budgets that will create medical posts, unfortunately. Budgets, on the other hand, can make it possible to work in better conditions and to recruit paramedical staff. It is up to us then to organize a better sharing of tasks between health care staff and physicians so that they can focus on their added value. This is what we do with task delegations, cooperation protocols and nurses in advanced practice. You're talking about medical acting, which is actually a scandal. I wondered about the advisability of banning it, but that would prevent some hospitals from operating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u96	It is therefore necessary to regulate the interim, which can now be a cause of deficit for the institutions: some are indeed raising prices. On the other hand, the complete prohibition should be avoided, since in this case an interim worker could not be recruited to replace a sick doctor. It is necessary to allow ourselves the possibility of resorting from time to time to temporary staff. Finally, you are asking me about the recovery of the debt. A mission of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – and the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF – is under way to establish the doctrine of debt recovery. In any case, all hospitals will be recaptured part of their hospital debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u97	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u98	Significant increase in the number of visits to emergencies, sustained rates of work, low wages, ageing of the population, lack of creation of additional posts, patients treated on stretchers and in corridors for several days, closures of beds and development all azimuts of the ambulance: here is the unfortunate picture of the situation of the public hospital in France. It was the great post-war revolution. It is in the 20th century what the public school was in the 19th century, both being factors of immeasurable progress for our society. Yet this common good is now at risk of collapse. I am thinking, in particular, of the CHU in Grenoble – unfortunately not an isolated case – which is unable to accommodate patients in emergency in good conditions. Half of the beds in the short-term hospital unit are closed due to a shortage of dangerously chronic doctors. Equality of access to public service and the right to health are directly at risk. Minister, I know you are very careful about this situation. You have also taken a series of measures, in particular with regard to the debt of the public hospital or the granting of premiums. But will the plan "my health 2022", whose measures will be fully effective in 2022, be sufficient to respond urgently to the dramatic situation of the public hospital? Will the granting of bonuses alone restore a second breath for decades to come? Fifty years ago, we were ahead of us in terms of health care and health care. We are now lagging behind: we spend only 3.6% of GDP in the public hospital, compared to an average of 4% in Europe, while in terms of compensation for paramedical staff, France ranks twenty-sixth out of twenty-nine OECD countries. Beyond bonuses, it is a lasting solution that must prevail. We also need to emerge from a purely financial and accounting logic that considers the patient only as a financial product. You want a reform of pricing: what solutions are you going to bring to correct current wanderings? The measures adopted so far are insufficient: proof of this is the anger which does not weaken and the resignation, this month, of more than 1000 heads of service of the public hospital. They're asking for recruitments, bed openings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Battistel...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u100	Minister, how do we respond to this emergency and draw the lines of tomorrow's public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u101	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u102	You asked a lot of questions: it will be difficult for me to answer everything. You're talking about a lasting solution. The only lasting solution is to implement the "my health 2022" plan, that is to say, to rethink our health system as a whole. We have a problem with medical demography. This problem is French, but also international: all countries now suffer from a shortage of doctors. So we need to better distribute the tasks between doctors and other medical or paramedical professions, and that is precisely what is provided for in the "My Health 2022" plan. This will already help relieve city medicine, which is now unable to cope with the influx of patients, because doctors are in difficulty. This will also help to combat medical deserts. A first step was taken when you passed the Health System Organization and Transformation Act, which implements the "My Health 2022" plan and now allows us to invest more in emergency services and hospital services in order to improve the working conditions of the staff concerned. But if we think each sector independently of the other, we will not find the solution. We need a lasting, comprehensive reorganization of the health system, which is being carried out. After the adoption of the Social Security Financing Act for 2020 last December, funding was allocated to hospitals as early as January. In addition, we are trying to better distribute tasks among professionals by creating nurses in advanced practice and allowing delegations of tasks? Indeed, we will not have any additional doctors in France in the coming years: we must therefore reorganise the system. You're talking about bed closures. When there is one, it is not a decision of the hospital, but a consequence of the absence of doctors. Wherever we can reopen beds, we have to do it. In the post-emergency units, there are means for this. I've asked the SRAs to get me back in line with the requests. There are no problems of financial means for opening beds, but we need professionals. To do this, doctors must be discharged from a number of tasks, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u103	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u104	The ras-le-bol of hospital staff is screaming. The last few weeks of social movement in hospitals remind us, if needed, that the crisis in the hospital is systemic and severe. Hospital staff are asked to do more with less resources, and this places them under unsustainable pressure, which inevitably affects patients and the quality of care. To this lack of resources is added a lack of consideration on the part of their management and the administration, at the highest level, which exacerbates an already harmful climate. Staff attend daily decision-making that runs counter to common sense, managerial logic and, unfortunately, patient well-being. Take the example of Remiremont Hospital, where the urology department was hibernate to reopen another hospital located 20 minutes away by car. There's something to worry about! In this particular case, not only is there a tendency to stop a well-functioning urology service, in a rural territory that needs it, but in addition, we want to transfer it to the neighbouring public hospital, to a city already equipped with such a care offer thanks to the private sector. This is typically an example of a decision that comes from above, without consultation with the field. And this is just one of many examples of managing the supply of care that generates stress and discontent in hospitals. Minister, do you intend to change your method of responding to calls for help from the hospital? And for Remiremont, will you, with the administration, review the future of the Urology Department?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u105	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u106	You're saying that people are being asked to do more with less resources. Since I got to the responsibilities, I've been giving more money to the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u107	I've been talking about a trend for thirty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u108	I have been the prime minister for ten years, raising hospital fees. I wanted to remind him. This is not the first time you've asked me about the Remiremont hospital. I know how attentive you are to his situation. As you know, the Urology department is now weakened by the departure of two hospital practitioners, one in the summer of 2019 and the other at the end of February 2020. Today a joint project between the hospitals of Épinal and Remiremont is needed: the two sites must work together, and it is by mobilising a territorial team of this specialty that this consolidation can be carried out. The urology specialty is not treated separately, nor seen from the unique angle of one site or the other. The consolidation of such a speciality requires a larger-scale analysis, in particular in connection with the CHU, and the possibility of developing a complete and coherent path for this activity. A urologist from another area hospital group expressed interest in the possibility of working in Remiremont, but care must be taken: a short-term facility does not ensure the long-term anchoring of a specialty. The SRA did not formally refuse his arrival but undertook to provide a response at the end of February. It is the complete balance of this specialty, for both sites, that is currently taken into account. Work continues by involving the CHU in the definition of this field. The arrival of a new professional – who in itself will not be sufficient – is conditioned by a global approach to specialty in the territory. In any event, it seems that the forthcoming arrival of a new director of the two institutions will consolidate this indispensable preparatory work by a guideline systematically linking the two entities, in complementarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u109	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u110	On several occasions, Madam Minister, you have expressed a desire to "give back medical time" to physicians and caregivers. I am convinced that you are using a relevant expression here, and above all that you are showing good will. Redeeming health professionals with medical time is bringing them back to their core business. When we take the time, as many elected officials do, to meet with these professionals, whether they are doctors, nurses, health workers or hospital workers, we can see that they are burdened by administrative issues – as you have pointed out yourself, as well as several parliamentarians. Ten years ago, the Law on the Reform of the Hospital and on Patients, Health and Territories dedicated the regional health agencies, alongside which are the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and an entire administrative organization. I will not go so far as to say that all this dehumanizes the hospital and the health sector, and I note your commitment: it is clear that you are a health minister who wants to do well. However, health professionals today spend a great deal of time on administrative, regulatory and legal tasks. So how can we simplify things? One surgeon explained to me that one month apart, IGAS and RSA made requests for audit, monitoring and evaluation. On 2 January, I met a healthcare professional at Rennes Hospital, complaining that he was also receiving the same requests a few weeks apart, and sometimes even conflicting requests. All this is administrative work! [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It is not a reproach to you, Madam Minister, but, as the President of the Republic would say, we must put people back in there! Beyond the question of the allocation of financial resources, I would like to stress the urgent need to simplify all this. There are a lot of people who work, a lot of people who talk, but there may also be too much administrative, not enough care, not enough concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u112	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u113	I understand the exasperation of professionals, honourable Member: it is true that the situation you describe may be unbearable to someone who needs to work a lot to meet the needs of patients. We have in mind the need to simplify the lives of caregivers. As I said earlier, caregivers need to be able to focus on their added value, that is, care, and not on administrative tasks. For city medicine, as you know, the law that implements the plan "my health 2022" has dedicated the existence of 40,000 medical assistants coming in support of general practitioners in order to relieve them of a lot of administrative tasks and to allow them more time to take care of patients in liberal medicine. After dealing with this issue, we now need to simplify the lives of doctors in the hospital. I entrusted a mission to Olivier Claris, chairman of the medical commission for the establishment of the civilian hospices of Lyon, whom I have mandated to work on the place of caregivers in hospital governance. In his mission letter, I asked him to propose to me a simplification of the procedures so that the caregivers no longer know these upuesque situations where they are asked to leave the files, to fill out documents... All this must be avoided as far as possible. I think IGAS is necessary – all departments have inspection services. As for the regional health agencies, they do not have a proper inspection role, but sometimes a reporting role on certain activities, particularly when it comes to granting authorisations for specialised activities. Work is under way. You can count on my full involvement so that doctors and caregivers can exercise their profession in the best possible conditions. We don't have enough caregivers in France, so we need them to focus on patient care. That will be our priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u114	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u115	Nine months. Nine months that medical and paramedical teams from most emergency services are on strike. Nine months they demand more staff, more resources, more time and security for their patients. But above all, nine months that their feeling of being invisible and inaudible increases. While these public service agents fight every day to ensure access to the health of all French people, their investment and the persistence of their working conditions are not recognized at their fair value. Madam Minister, you have provided answers by awarding various bonuses: this was a first step in the right direction, we cannot deny it. But do hospital staff throughout the country not deserve a salary increase? In December, you also announced EUR 150 million over three years for the current investment of public hospitals. Similarly, the ARS Occitanie has released a €19 million envelope to enable seventy-three hospitals in the region to purchase equipment or carry out modernisation work. But what's the point of modernising the hospital if we don't figure out what the numbers are? To take a concrete example, the emergencies at the Lourdes hospital have more than 20,000 patients spent a year. However, there is no nursing station for the reception – IOA – there. This nurse is supposed to guide patients upon arrival and thus optimize the functioning of the service. Without it, patients' waiting times are increasing, and their insecurity is also increasing. On strike since June 2019, Lourdes emergency personnel are demanding the recruitment of an IOA for 12 hours a day and 365 days a year. They were initially opposed to the freeze on recruitment, due to a lack of budget, before proposing a half-time position far below expectations. So, Madam Minister, can you take action to ensure that resources are allocated to the recruitment of this IOA? Caregivers have realistic solutions to offer. Concrete measures must be taken to recruit more caregivers, reduce bed closures and thereby improve patient reception conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u116	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u117	Madam Member, emergencies are indeed suffering from an influx of sick people everywhere, in France and in Europe. Indeed, French patients find it difficult to find a liberal doctor who can take care of unscheduled care. This is why the "My Health 2022" plan aims to better organize liberal medicine so that there are time frames for unscheduled care, so that those who can be taken care of by city medicine do not land in emergencies. In addition, we are working within the framework of the emergency restructuring pact to restore resources to emergencies, by creating posts in advanced practice, by proposing protocols for cooperation between doctors and nurses, so that doctors can be discharged from a number of acts such as the prescription of radios or small sutures, or by awarding premiums, such as the risk premium for emergency personnel – I am thinking in particular of nurses. With regard to the hospital in Lourdes, €500,000 was allocated in January to renew the equipment used daily by the health care providers and to invest in the conditions for the reception of patients. As for the hospital in Bigorre, it was 750000 euros allocated to it that same month and I would remind you that these appropriations for the purchase of equipment and the renovation are foreseen for three years in a row. These are practical means for caregivers and patients. Since January, two hundred thousand caregivers have received a new premium of 100 euros net per month, in particular the staff working with the elderly – I am thinking of health workers working in public EHPAD or in geriatric services. Thanks to the emergency restructuring pact, emergency personnel receive a monthly premium of 100 euros net because they work in emergencies and a monthly premium of 80 euros net if they are part of a cooperation protocol. It is a revalorisation of their work and we are resolutely committed to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u118	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u119	Minister, the public hospital is going wrong, the staff are suffering and for more than a year they have been engaged in a number of claims, which obviously worries the elected representatives we are. I would like to ask you in particular about the financial difficulties of public health institutions, particularly in Morbihan. The hospital at the head of the Broceliande Atlantic hospital group has an expected deficit of 8 million euros despite an increasing activity – 4% in surgery and 7% in external consultation for example. The expected deficit of the hospital in Ploërmel is 2 million, despite this again a sustained activity. Investments are planned for the reconstruction of Josselin Hospital and the installation of an MRI in Ploërmel. It should be noted that the Vannes establishments have six MRIs when Ploërmel has been waiting for his for a long time. There is a question of spatial planning, the population of Ploërmel being by its size – 80000 inhabitants – likely to feed an MRI. It seems to me that it is time to draw a line on the requests for budget cuts from hospitals that have been the rule under the Holland era and to loosen the vise around our health facilities. What measures will the Government take to sustain our public hospitals, which provide community care and take into account polypathology? We're not going to go back to fee-for-service... You have announced the allocation of 150 million a year, 450 million by 2022. I fear, Madam Minister, that these sums will be less than the actual needs. I would therefore like to know your views on their distribution, and your quantitative analysis of the needs of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u120	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u121	The 450 million euros, Mr President, do not, for the most part, fall under the "investment for the hospital" plan: they are allocated to invest in everyday equipment – beds, stretchers, ultrasounds. They are in addition to the EUR 1.5 billion provided for in the plan to increase hospital budgets for three years. This is a commitment made by the Government, not to mention the recovery of debt, which is a massive investment, as you know. However, I would like to recall the figures: over the last ten years, hospital investment has been halved while hospital debt has increased by 40%. The decision to resume 30 per cent of hospital debt is therefore a decision to break in relation to this development. This is clearly expected by hospital staff: many know how much this debt prevents their institution from recruiting or reinvesting. The annual injection of this financial package will allow hospitals to finance projects that could not be financed so far. By 2022, it is therefore 10 billion debt that will be recovered from hospitals: it is one third of the total amount of the current hospital debt that will no longer be borne by the institutions. In the first years, this will represent an estimated amount of between 800 million and 1 billion euros for the cash flow of the institutions. The ministry wants to focus on a territorial approach to organizing and modulating the recovery of hospital debt and supporting institutional investment. I have launched a joint mission of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs and the Inspectorate-General for Finance to support the administrations in the conduct of this project, which is an unprecedented innovation. The report that the inspections will present to me in March will allow me to define the doctrine of this debt recovery. These measures are strongly carried by the Government, leading to a system adapted to the realities of each territory of health facilities, which provides them with an additional tool to relaunch their investments, alleviate their financial burdens, plan for the future, set up teams and possibly reopen beds. With regard to the hospital in Ploërmel, 175,000 euros had just been allocated to it in January. This hospital is in debt to the tune of 25 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u122	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u123	Minister, the public hospital is in crisis. This crisis is certainly not new, but it continues to worsen. For nearly a year, hospital staff have been making their voices heard to denounce the working conditions they face. Initially part of the emergency services, mobilization has gradually gained the full range of hospital services. A few days ago, no less than 1100 hospital doctors threatened to resign from their positions: never seen! Already deeply disorganized since the reform of working time, the situation of French hospitals has since deteriorated, especially since the introduction of activity pricing, which has led to the invoicing of services that are sometimes useless to meet a logic of performance that is often accounting. Our compatriots, already hard hit by the multiplication of medical deserts, are increasingly confronted with service closures, as was the case in the hospital of Bethune Beuvry, or even the closure of an entire health care facility, such as that of the medical-surgical clinic of Bruay La Buissière. Most recently, the Pediatric Service of the Bethune Hospital made the news due to the dilapidation of its premises. This is clearly unbearable for both staff and patients and their families. No lasting solution is provided to the problem of the decrease in the number of beds or the problem of penibility. You reason only with a view to rationalizing costs, to the detriment of the health of our compatriots. Hospital staff perform extraordinary work every day in the service of patients. Also concerned about his pension system, he tries to maintain, despite difficult working conditions, the public health service. Could you, Madam Minister, beyond the envelope you recently announced that you would like to allocate to the hospital in Lens, confirm the state's contribution to the financing of the renovation of the operating block of the hospital in Bethune, whose cost is estimated at almost 8 million euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u124	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u125	Mr President, I agree with you that some of the reforms in recent years have not been beneficial to the public hospital: whether it is the implementation of the 35 hours without increasing the number of people present at the hospital, the introduction of activity pricing, which has led the hospital in a mad race for profitability as if it were a company, or the law on hospitals, patients, health, territories, which has moved doctors away from hospital governance, none of this has helped the teams to be well-being. To this has been added the disinvestment which the public hospital has suffered for the last ten years through the steady reduction of tariffs. I do not agree with you, however, when you say that we are closing beds for reasons of rationality. This department made no decision to close beds. The reality is that our country lacks doctors, to the point that in some territories there are no longer enough doctors to maintain the activity. This situation is not specific to France, as it is found in all the countries of Europe, which have not trained doctors in sufficient numbers in relation to the ageing of the population. Our strategy is to lighten the work of doctors so that they can focus on their care activity, to give meaning to the work of caregivers by reinvesting in everyday life. Because we have come to the end of a logic, we want to reinvest in the public hospital. It is a public service to which all the French are deeply attached, and the Government is there to support it. Many prospects are opening up and I have put a lot of money on the table, whether in the form of attractive bonuses, current investments or debt recovery: everything is being done today to improve working conditions in hospitals. Buying equipment, renovating it takes time: I have just allocated funds to rebuild the hospital in Lens, in your area, but it takes time to build a new hospital! We try to act as quickly as possible to ensure that caregivers regain the attractiveness of their activity. That is absolutely necessary, and that is why the Government is fully committed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u126	The hospital question session is over. The next debate on tax relief for capital and business is scheduled to take place at 11.15 a.m. It will be held in the Lamartine Hall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u127	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u128	The next item is the debate on tax relief for capital and businesses: what economic and social consequences? This debate was called for by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. At the request of the latter, he is held in the Lamartine room, so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to organise it in two parts. We will begin with a round table, in the presence of invited persons, and then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will proceed to a new sequence of questions and answers. During this sequence, the duration of questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Vincent Drezet, former Secretary-General of the Union Solidaires finances publiques, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u129	I thank you for inviting me to this round table on a topic that is largely in the public and economic debate and has social effects. Broad-based tax relief, including corporate tax, is a marker of current tax policies, and is more broadly a reflection of a trend that began twenty or thirty years ago. I will analyse it through two questions: concretely, how can the taxation of companies and capital be reduced? What are the effects? Measures to reduce corporate and capital taxes can be taken, but they may not be taken. Where appropriate, measures can be taken at both national and international level – an essential dimension of our open economies. Strong tax and social competition is taking place at the international level, and has probably even increased since the 2008 crisis. Schematically, it is reflected in most countries in the transfer of taxes from capital to labour and in increased pressure on the level of compulsory levies. Whether one sees an ideology or a necessity, one cannot deny that such a tendency is at work. To be convinced, it is sufficient to see the increase in the weight of VAT – value added tax – and indirect taxes in the European Union, while income tax and nominal and actual rates of corporate tax – IS – are becoming less and less progressive. This is a heavy, documented trend that is part of an international context of tax and social competition. At the national level, the various measures that have been taken are based on a triptych consisting of the reduction of corporate tax, the creation of a single flat-rate levy and the abolition of taxation of financial assets – referred to summarily as the abolition of capital tax, the ISF. This economic logic, driven and assumed by the Government, is based on the principle that corporate levies should be reduced, that the so-called financial revenues – in which I store dividends, shares and capital gains – should cease to be imposed on the progressive scale, and that the same financial assets should cease to be taxed at the stock stage. The aim is to create financial margins that can flow or be reinjected into the economy. But in order to reduce corporate and capital taxes, we can also refrain from taking action – it is important to remember that. For example, both internationally and nationally, projects that could strengthen corporate taxation are deliberately hampered, and provisions are deliberately excluded. Take the example of the tax applied to digital giants, the famous GAFA tax – Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple. I do not claim that it produced any effect. It has given impetus, but it is now being challenged by international political and geopolitical discussions, particularly within the framework of the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. In France, corporate tax is dated and has not been able to adapt to the transformation of the economy. We can also regret the lack of fiscal harmonisation – mainly in the area of corporate taxation – within the European Union. Although a European draft consolidated common IS base is under discussion and nearing finalization, Member States are hindering its entry into force. Such a context, in which freedom of movement, mobility of capital and greater internationalisation prevails, contributes to the reduction of business and capital taxes, to the benefit of a handful of major economic players. Among the provisions France refrains from undertaking is the revision of the research tax credit – CIR –, which is particularly costly and produces questionable effects. It is weakly controlled by the tax administration, and is largely optimized by businesses and even hijacked. Moreover, our country refrains from strengthening fiscal control, although it is a mission of the Directorate-General for Public Finance. However, not to control certain economic actors is to give them financial room for manoeuvre. What are the economic and social effects of such a policy? From an economic point of view, the reduction of business taxation and capital leads to a budgetary shortfall which penalises the financing of public action. Moreover, there is no evidence that such relief measures – I am thinking in particular of CICE and social niches – contribute to job creation; The Court of Auditors deplored this in its latest report on the application of social security financing laws. This policy also produces international imbalances. From a social point of view, it leads to an increase in inequalities and a weakening of tax consent, the consequences of which are now being measured.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u130	Mr Fabrice Lenglart, Inspector General of INSEE and Chairman of the Evaluation Committee on Capital Taxation Reforms, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u131	The Capital Tax Reform Evaluation Committee was established in December 2018, one year after the launch of the Government's extensive capital tax renovation and passed by the legislator. Recall that this reform introduced a single flat-rate levy on savings income and replaced the solidarity tax on wealth with the property tax, the IFI. The Government had also planned a reduction in corporate tax, which would extend throughout the quinquennium. The Committee began its work in a context where it was not possible to produce ex post evaluations of the reforms undertaken: not only were the reforms too recent to have actually borne fruit, but no data were available. In its first report, the Committee therefore focused on describing the landscape in order to lay the foundation for a future assessment. Our next report is expected to be published in September, and the next one year later. How was the landscape characterized before the advent of tax reform? First of all, France was distinguished by a higher weight of capital taxation than the European average, i.e. 11% of GDP and a quarter of the total compulsory levies. Note that compulsory levies were already higher in France than elsewhere, proof that the taxation of capital and labour was in similar situations. Secondly, among the population eligible for the ISF – i.e. whose wealth exceeded EUR 1.3 million – the latter weighed more, proportionally, on the smallest assets – less than EUR 3 million – than on the very large ones. Two reasons explain this. On the one hand, the ISF did not tax the entire heritage of a household, since it excluded the professional tool but also, for example, works of art. The most affluent people, however, have this type of asset more in proportion. On the other hand, under a constitutional capping mechanism, the sum of the income tax paid on social contributions and the ISF could not exceed 75 per cent of the income. However, the higher the wealth scale, the higher the proportion of taxpayers reaching this limit, which has the effect of restricting the amount of the ISF. Thus, of the 0.1% of taxpayers subject to the ISF, or 350 households, the median tax rate was equivalent to 0.2% of the assets, while in theory the ISF scale allows for taxation of the assets up to 1.5%. As it was designed, the ISF therefore taxed households with a very high wealth in proportion to those with a heritage of between EUR 1.3 million and EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u132	The next speaker is Henri Sterdyniak, economist at the French Economic Observatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u133	In the area of corporate and capital taxation, there are two opposing points of view. According to the liberal view, each country must make itself as attractive as possible to the richest and most competent, to the financial markets and to multinational enterprises. The tax burden on these agents should therefore be reduced. An additional advantage would be that such a policy would reduce the rate of compulsory levies, encourage administrations to be more efficient and invite everyone to contribute to effort and innovation. From this liberal perspective, France would have no choice but to conform to the international model. This view can be challenged. At the global level, such a policy is ultimately negative: when each country cuts its taxes to attract large companies and the richest players, efforts end up being cancelled. Moreover, countries that succeed in gaining market share at the expense of their partners are exposed to a return of staff: there is a time when they have to help losing countries and have to lend them – Germany is a good example. To pursue such a fiscal policy is also to be at the mercy of global economic shocks. Such a strategy also harms social cohesion and increases inequalities, while it benefits financial markets. Finally, it is incompatible with the necessary ecological shift, which requires thinking about the major choices of production and consumption from a social point of view, rather than relying on companies. In any case, households will only contribute to environmental efforts in a more egalitarian society. We cannot at the same time reduce the ISF and increase the carbon tax: we have seen what contradictions this led to. The OFCE, the French Observatory for Economic Situations, published yesterday a study showing that the strategy of less imposing big fortunes, of lowering the PFU, the single flat-rate levy, accompanied by restrictive measures concerning unemployment benefits and housing allowances, finally, on average, made the 5% of the richest households gain €2905 and lose €240 to the 5% of the poorest households: the curve is elephant-shaped. The effect is certainly favourable for the middle strata, which have earned on average 840 euros, but, despite everything, the fact that the richest earn more increases social inequalities. Unfortunately, France is committed to a strategy of decreasing the IS, in order to get closer to the average of 25%. The problem is that all countries are lowering their rates and getting closer to them, which lowers the average itself, so that one day we will all find ourselves at the level of Ireland, to 12.5%! But the IS is indispensable: without it, which makes it possible to tax undistributed profits, the richest would arrange to never distribute profits. It is also essential because large companies are becoming more and more autonomous. They are now much richer than States; It's the feudality of tomorrow. We need to take their profits in order to direct them towards production, towards the ecological shift. I will add two words about the UFP. It is, of course, a disaster from the point of view of taxation. There is no reason to say that certain incomes must escape tax escalation. We are leading to a system in which, when we consider the higher levels of management, the income of capital is less taxed than that of labour. This is not normal, and it does not meet any logic. In addition, this system encourages renomination, that is, instead of distributing wages, people distribute dividends, resulting in losses to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u134	Thank you, Mr. Sterdyniak...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u135	With regard to capital tax, a study shows that there has been no visible positive effect on employment. It may be said that it is too early to judge, but the fact is that there are no concrete examples of people using this money to create jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u136	We'll get back to it. Rest assured, Mr Sterdyniak, you will have the floor again. We come to the questions. I therefore invite all those who wish to pose one to manifest themselves. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u137	There are indeed, in our view, two competing projects of society: some favour the liberation of capital and tackle taxes in general, as has just been described; others defend the principle of taxation, its redistribution, its fairness, and the fact that it makes it possible to live in a community. Whenever this subject is discussed, I like to recall two quotations. For Reginald Appleby, founder of a law firm in Bermuda that was partly responsible for the Paradise Papers scandal, income tax was "the ultimate refinement of human torture, which must be opposed at all costs." His contemporary Henry Morgenthau, Secretary of the Treasury under Roosevelt's presidency, said: "Taxes are the price to be paid for a civilized society. Too many citizens want civilization at a discount. » It is clear that these two societal projects continue to confront each other today. We Members of the Committee on Finance see that a government never had as much tax-free as it had tax-free capital, the richest and multinationals, in various forms. The accounts we have made show that by adding the cost of reliefs, the decline of the IS for multinationals, the flat tax, the abolition of the ISF, the abolition of the dividend tax and the CICE, €186.4 billion of reliefs, gifts, exemptions will have been granted in five years to capital, multinationals and the richest. These are 186 billion tax gifts! My question, which is bouncing on Mr Sterdyniak's last words, is therefore the following: do you have any precise figures which prove that this reduction in the taxation of the "first of the ropes" allowed the runoff promised by the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u138	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u139	You will have understood that when we wrote the first report of the evaluation committee, the ex-post evaluation of these measures was simply not yet possible. On the other hand, you will find a review of economic literature on the subject, both from a theoretical point of view and in the form of empirical studies on global capital tax reforms. The main teachings of this literature do not necessarily apply to the concrete case we are dealing with, but they are interesting. The first of these teachings is that it is normal, in theory, for capital to be taxed. Economists are unanimous on this point. The tax must be applied on the basis of each person's ability to contribute, and these capacities are determined not only by income, but also by wealth. The second lesson is that there are several ways to tax capital: on the one hand, the IS, on the other, a whole series of taxations of household capital, either by holding assets, by income from such assets, or by inheritances. In considering, from a theoretical point of view, the effects of a particular tool for the taxation of capital, we find that the consequences are not necessarily the same. Empirical papers published in peer-reviewed scientific journals show that IS is indeed exposed to international competition. However, in a number of countries where the SI rate differs from region to region, a fall in this rate may have a positive effect on the territory concerned in terms of investment, demand for work by enterprises, and hence employment, and wages. A number of studies say so. As far as household taxation is concerned, the empirical results we have are much more mixed. In a number of cases, taxing the wealth or capital held by households affects the distribution of this heritage and thus reduces the long-term inequalities in heritage. On the other hand, no study, in any case in the economic literature review we have done, has so far demonstrated that lowering the taxation of wealth in household taxation would have a visible impact on investment or employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u140	Mr Vincent Drezet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u141	The historical objectives of taxation are the financing of public action, the reduction of inequalities and incentives. It is this last objective that needs to be addressed. There is no doubt that there is a historical lack of evaluation, including derogatory mechanisms. I remember a 2008 report by the House's Finance Committee which for the first time raised the question of the impact of tax niches on the effective tax rate, but also on the expected effects. All the elements that I could give to the debate show, Mr Lenglart, the same thing: one cannot measure, or at least the measure shows very little effect in terms of jobs created or saved, or, for example, in terms of investments. Sometimes even, it can be said, these studies reveal, in the end, a real critique. There are the evaluation committees of the CICE: they have shown that with at best 60000 to 120,000 jobs created or saved for a cost, a debt to the State, of about 20 billion euros, the CICE had no real impact. All of this is therefore subject to caution. As I said earlier, there are the Court of Auditors' reports: the latest one, that of October 2019, reveals that the famous social niches have risen to 90 billion since the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in social contributions. However, they have no proven impact on job creation. A few years earlier, the Court of Auditors had also deplored the cost of the CIR and its lack of efficiency or effectiveness. By expanding the spectrum a little, we can see that there is national room for manoeuvre. I would like to point out that the weight of IS in relation to GDP is well below the average of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD, even when we are in an open economy and we are looking at the environment. There is, therefore, evidence that these measures have not been effective, or very little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u142	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u143	After thanking the speakers for their introductory remarks, I would first like to point out that it is the companies that create the national wealth, of which they redistribute most. Of the 100 euros in result, the majority goes to employees, followed by taxes and then by investment. In memory, only about 5 euros last come back to investors to reward risk-taking. The challenge here is to strike a balance between participation in the public good, in the state, and the fact that companies maintain sufficient cash to continue to invest and grow. More specifically, my question relates to the consequences of the transformation of the ISF into an IFI, the property wealth tax, which led to the abolition of the ISF-SME. While companies need funds, this removal has deprived them of a financing tool to serve the economy. Today, there is still the IR, the income tax, and therefore the IR-SME, but the latter is limited to 10000 euros and has a very broad base. So, would you have any elements to assess the impact of the removal of ISF-SME on business financing? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u144	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u145	As I explained, our first report does not contain any ex post evaluation elements, including the removal of the ISF-SME niche through the transformation of the ISF into an IFI. However, it is not clear that this removal has had a negative impact, as it remains to be seen whether the ISF-SME niche would finance, if I dare say, the right investments in the right SMEs. In my view, the problem needs to be carefully examined and will therefore require further work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u146	Mr. Henri Sterdyniak has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u147	You know, the ISF had been considerably developed, precisely to promote businesses and entrepreneurs. Many provisions had been designed for the latter, in particular the ISF-SME, but also the fact that the ISF did not hit professional goods, which was an important incentive for families to stay in the business, to invest in it. There were also exemptions related to the Dutreil Pact. All this meant that the ISF did not harm the families of entrepreneurs: they did not pay for it, thanks to their investment. The removal of the ISF destroyed this advantage that entrepreneurs had to remain in the company. This is indeed a consequence that should be assessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u148	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u149	Inequalities continue to widen and cause anger in the country. As you have pointed out, more than a quarter of the EUR 17 billion distributed to households since the beginning of the quinquennium has fed the disposable income of the 5 % of the most affluent households, which makes me say that it is not so much the tax break as the tax injustice that provokes anger and puts people on the street. Is it normal for income from capital to be taxed less than income from labour? To put it another way: why is sweat imposed more than the dividend? The solution is to tax all income, wherever it comes from, at the same level, i.e. to define broad tax bases and make tax niches exceptional. However, the opposite is the case. Do you think that a reversal is possible and that it is possible to move towards a fairer taxation, which would reward more merit than income from capital? You have also pointed out that the relative weight of progressive taxes in France – whether it is income tax, property tax or inheritance tax – is decreasing, in favour of proportional taxes such as VAT, which are increasing. For households with lower incomes than others, in particular, the weight of these proportional contributions is becoming much heavier. I would also like to know your opinion on one point that has not yet been addressed, namely the participatory tax: there are many proposals to this effect in the campaigns for municipal elections. Do you think it is possible to create a participatory tax at the national level?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u150	Mr Vincent Drezet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u151	I am not in a position to answer the last question, but I can share a few points about the causes of the tax break. Opinion surveys conducted since the beginning of the 2000s show that at the time of the economic crisis, the proportion of French people willing to pay more taxes in order to benefit from more public services was lower than the share of French people wishing to pay less taxes, even though public services were falling. The current results reflect a heavy trend, the turning point of which may be at the time of the crisis. Among the causes of the events that have occurred in recent years – especially since the yellow vests, but we were already observing them in 2014 – is the complex, unfair and unstable nature of the tax system, which is part of a form of tax illegibility and misunderstanding. The various cases of tax fraud and tax evasion – I do not confuse the two terms – which, especially since 2008, have involved colossal amounts, have also fueled discontent. The disappearance of public services in some areas, while taxes – especially unfair taxes – are increasing, is another objective cause of anger. The reasoning can be further developed by pointing out that SMEs and local businesses have suffered from the impact of these movements on economic activity, but above all from differences between the effective tax rates they have to pay and those applicable to large groups. All these factors have contributed to the current situation; Our colleagues see this on a daily basis. As regards tax bases and tax and social niches, it may be considered that the baby should not be thrown away with bath water. It is simply a matter of controlling these niches, by going back into detail and doing fine surgery, to ensure their effectiveness – I am thinking, typically, of the research tax credit. However, we lack a comprehensive work on the subject – although, as I said, some work shows that we have objectively gone too far in the multiplication of niches, which causes tax revenue losses and undermines tax consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u152	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u153	I will add some additional elements on the choice of applying a flat tax or progressive taxation to capital income. Both solutions are of course conceivable. To re-state the context, the first European countries to have shifted towards proportional taxation of capital income are the Scandinavian countries, which are more of a social democratic culture...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u154	Who were, anyway...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u155	... and whose social protection system places them in a situation which is relatively close to that of other European countries. This decision was made because the reactivity of capital income at the tax rate is higher than that of labour income – it is observed everywhere. To take a specific example, after the introduction in France of the single flat-rate levy, the PFU, we observed, as early as 2018 – even if the causal link would deserve to be established seriously, and we will focus on it – a sharp increase in the dividends received by households. Similarly, when the then Government decided in 2013 to tax capital income and dividends according to the progressive scale of income tax, there had been a sharp drop in dividends received by households. I don't make any value judgments; It is only necessary to bear in mind that the reactivity of dividends distributed at the tax rate is greater than that of labour income. This is an element of assessment to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u156	Mr. Henri Sterdyniak has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u157	What Mr Lenglart said was correct, but it was important to know why more dividends were being distributed. In fact, granting a tax advantage drives some people to distribute dividends instead of keeping capital in the business or distributing wages: it is tax optimisation, but, for economic activity, it has no interest. On the other hand, after citing the example of the Scandinavian countries, it is worth mentioning the United States, where, in the current electoral campaign, the idea that a capital tax must be restored is expressed. Perhaps we could, for once, draw inspiration from the United States, if they actually made that decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u158	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u159	Thank you to the three speakers for their presence. I want to ask them two questions. The first relates to Mr. Drezet's statement, which highlights the weakening of tax consent. This idea deserves to be developed: do we not gradually lose the meaning of taxation, which is to enable society to fulfil its essential functions – health, education, justice, ecological issues? Don't all recent measures make us lose track of the real societal issues we have to address? Can we, for example, better care by paying less or less taxes? That's a real question. My second question was dealt with in part: Mr Sterdyniak stressed the catastrophic nature of the PPU and its collateral effects, in particular the transfer of the remuneration of managers to an increased distribution of dividends. Do we now have figures on the amount of this transfer and its effects, in terms of taxes but also social contributions, since they are lower on dividends than on earnings?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u160	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u161	On the last point, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the UFP has led to an increase in dividends distributed to households, which has mitigated, in a causal proportion that remains to be determined, the decrease in tax surplus value – since these additional dividends have been taxed. With regard to the renomination of income by company managers, we have no elements. We have heard Gabriel Zucman, who has drawn our attention to this risk – which is mentioned in our report – but, to date, there is no evidence in France of such a renomination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u162	Mr Vincent Drezet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u163	Your first question on consent to tax joins the debate on the level of compulsory levies. I had had fun in the past trying to describe what a tax-free society would be. A tax-free society, of course, is not a company. The precise consequences of the abolition of taxation can be discussed, but it would, in any case, cost health and all sectors currently financed by compulsory levies. The management of this cost would be left to everyone's responsibility, which means that those who could not afford it would not be covered. This debate reappears today in the context of the pension reform project, but more generally the question is simple: should socio-economic needs be addressed and, if so, should they be addressed collectively or individually? The debate is that: no one, in reality, wants to give up taking care of health, environmental needs or education. The question is, therefore, whether we are pooled to finance them or whether we are referring each one to his or her responsibility – which would mean an increase in compulsory levies, but only private compulsory levies. The latter would, for the time being, be distributed in a very unequal manner, and would provide households with equally unequal coverage. It is this tax pedagogy that is lacking – and probably not only in France – and that would feed a quality public debate, better pose the stakes and restore meaning, because the crisis of consent to tax fuels the democratic crisis. We are all concerned here with this issue, including trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u164	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u165	Among the many gifts made to capital – capital tax, flat tax, exit tax, corporate tax – the most recent was the double payment, in 2019, of the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE, and the relief of expenses that replaces it, for a total of 40 billion euros. The INSEE study estimates the gain allowed by the CICE to 30,000 jobs created. Bercy's notes mention an increase of 100,000 jobs, a figure similar to that consistently reported in France Stratégie's reports. Let's make a quick calculation: 40 billion euros divided by 30,000 to 100,000 jobs bring us to an amount of between 400,000 and 1.2 million euros per year and per job, i.e. a monthly wage of 33000 to 100,000 euros for each job. There is a completely aberrant disproportion between the money injected and the job creation that comes out of it – which gives me hope, since it means that we have an absolutely huge margin of manoeuvre to create between 400,000 and 1 million jobs in the fields of peasant agriculture, child care workers or social work. How can we explain that, despite the accumulation of reports year after year, an injection of around 20 billion euros is maintained to create 100,000 jobs on arrival, each of which represents a huge cost? How is it that this device is maintained in the long term?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u166	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u167	The follow-up committee of the CICE, which continues to live under the aegis of France Stratégie, has in fact published preliminary studies which rather evoke the figure of 100,000 to 150,000 job creations, two years after the start of the implementation of the scheme. This study has yet to be completed: temporality must be taken into account. On the other hand, you are quite right to point out that a double effect was felt when the CICE was transformed into a reduction in contributions, but this double effect will only occur once: the meters are, in a way, reset to zero. However, in theory – empirically observed job creations can always be debated – the expected effect is not the same depending on whether one grants a reduction in one-off or long-term burdens. I would also point out that the CICE or the cuts in charges do not reduce the taxation of capital, but rather that of labour. The effectiveness of such measures can be discussed: many studies show that reducing the cost of low-paid work creates employment, but the impact of such measures depends on their type of implementation. My message is therefore that the measure to which you refer is not a reduction in the taxation of capital, but a reduction in the taxation of labour; it is shown that employment reacts to its cost and that reducing the cost of work for low wages creates employment; Finally, the debate on the efficiency of this type of policy remains open.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u168	Mr. Henri Sterdyniak has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u169	I will make a first point out of the question: the establishment of the CICE was a pure scandal. Parliamentarians must be vigilant. It is totally unacceptable to pretend that a reduction in contributions is a reduction in corporate tax and to have introduced this one-year time lag mechanism, which certainly helped us when it was put in place, but which made us pay EUR 20 billion to compensate for the end of the CICE. Using a tax expenditure mechanism for a reduction in social contributions and playing on the lag is not acceptable from a democratic point of view – nor from a logical point of view, as it weakens the measure. Moreover, as you know, we live in a capitalist regime, where it is companies that hire or debaucher. The problem is that we are afraid, because companies can say that an increase in labour costs would not be serious, since they could replace all cashiers with machines, which would massively increase unemployment among unskilled workers. All studies show that the CICE has a very low impact but, in the name of the precautionary principle, it is not possible to remove this inefficient measure. It would probably be more useful to say that tomorrow we will create green jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u170	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u171	I thank the GDR Group for allowing us to discuss this important issue. I will concentrate on the taxation of French companies, and in particular on the large disparities in the level of corporate tax. Indeed, the average implicit rate of this tax was 17.8 per cent for large enterprises, compared with 23.7 per cent for SMEs, although the gap has narrowed over the past 10 years, the Government has for several years embarked on a downward trend in corporate tax and this trajectory has been changed in the GAFA, or digital services tax, debate. However, the ultimate goal is to apply the same corporate tax rate of 25% by 2025. Do you consider it possible or desirable to introduce a progressive corporate tax rate based on the size of businesses or the level of their profits? What other measures could be envisaged to reduce the implied rate differential? Another important issue is tax harmonisation within the European Union. We consider it impossible to envisage a peaceful future for Europe if there is competition between countries and companies based on tax de-escalation and the existence of genuine tax havens in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u172	Mr Vincent Drezet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u173	First, there is always, according to studies, a more or less significant gap between effective corporate tax rates. By widening the gap, we would see that it certainly varies according to size, but also according to the activities of the enterprises. The progressivity of corporate tax, which you refer to, already exists in some way, because there is a reduced rate. When working on this issue, one always encounters the perverse effects that this can cause, because if one introduces a progressivity – an idea to which one is spontaneously sensitive – one must avoid that companies restructure themselves to go under radars. Much of the work on equal corporate tax depends on the study of derogation schemes, which include not only tax niches, but also specific mechanisms based, for example, on undercapitalisation. As for European tax harmonisation, which I mentioned earlier, it is not a question of turning, at least in the theoretical debate, towards a fiscal unification applying the same rate and basis: work must be based on the foundations and one can very well imagine – this is an idea that we have been defending for several years – a European tax snake that sets limits, in particular to stop the race to the bottom of the facial and effective rates of corporate tax. One can imagine a common basis and ensure that, on this basis, a corporate tax rate emerges, probably differentiated according to the countries, at least to start, in order to stop the race of the rates down. The underlying issue is the impact and impact of these policies, as there is both a deterioration in public policy financing and a transfer of taxes to households.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u174	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u175	I agree with what Mr Drezet has just said about rates and the need to push for convergence of rates at European level. Beyond rates, however – because the fall in corporate tax rates was intended to converge towards a European average, and France has not become a tax haven, far from it! – the real question is the corporate tax base. Much progress has been made in this area and, although I hear a lot of things, no one is referring to the work carried out within the framework of the OECD and the European Union. However, 13 or 14 directives were adopted under the previous European Commission to combat financial opacity and the black tax holes generated by, inter alia, overcapitalisation, undercapitalisation, escape and transfer prices. We have also made tremendous progress in banking transparency, and Mr Drezet is well aware of this, since we both come from the same administration. The work that is now being done by bank transparency is very different from the work that was done 20 years ago without this transparency, because we now have much more information, particularly for tax control. As a result, progress has been made on the base. Dividend taxation is only a mirror of corporate tax: dividend tax is paid when companies subject to corporate tax make distributions. In addition to all the questions of international taxation, which we are gradually settling with Community directives and OECD conventions, which we are all incorporating into French law, which puts the corporate tax base, there are two major issues that absolutely need to be addressed: the mother-daughter system and the Copé niche. On the latter, I table amendments every year, which sometimes pass and sometimes, like this year, do not pass – so I will resubmit them next year, because the under-taxation of capital gains from transfers of securities held by corporate tax companies is a serious problem. The problem with the mother-daughter scheme is that today, when a company distributes a dividend to a French, German or Dutch company, it has the right to deduct it from its tax income, regardless of the level of taxation of that dividend in the country of origin. Morality: dividends from Singapore, where they have sometimes been taxed at only 10%, are deducted from a 33% taxed result. This issue can only be dealt with at European level. What do you think, Mr. Drezet?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u176	Mr Vincent Drezet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u177	First of all, the differences in effective tax rates reveal two things. First, taxable profits are determined differently – typically, in Germany, the base is much wider and deductions are less numerous than in France. The harmonisation of the base – the CCCTB, or common consolidated corporate tax base – takes this into account, but this requires a lot of legislative work in all states and, above all, political will. Another issue, phenomenal, on which I also wish to add a complement is that of the products of hybrid entities, which are subject to double non-taxation! One could also mention intellectual property, which generates considerable tax, legal and illegal avoidance in transfer pricing. With regard to the effectiveness of the exchange of information, we do not yet have a return of services. With regard to the OECD's guidelines – on which I referred to the famous GAFA tax, which is only an emblem of the transformation of the economy – we agree with the principle of relocation of corporate taxes. As to how to do this, particularly for the different digital activities, it may be necessary to go through the GDPR, the general data protection regulation. This debate is probably very technical. What is certain is that not only is it slow, but that people are now waiting for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u178	Mr Fabrice Lenglart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u179	I will not go back to what has been said about the highly desirable harmonisation of corporate tax at European level. Secondly, I would point out that in France, the corporate tax scales are, facially, among the highest on a European scale, but in terms of revenue from this tax, France is not among the highest, but in the European average. The difference can be explained by the fact that in France more than elsewhere there are corporate tax credit schemes which do not exist elsewhere. If we want to lower facial rates, perhaps we have to do so, but we have to ask ourselves whether we should also go back to certain tax credits. On the other hand, there is much talk about the burden of public expenditure in France, which is used to finance many public services, but a number of these expenditure consists of aid to the productive sector. To give an order of magnitude, these aids included in French public expenditure for the merchant sector represent about 6 points of GDP, while the European average is 4.5 points: we tax more, but we also help more. Perhaps it calls for reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u180	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u181	I will go straight to the point, referring to the questions put in particular by Mr Ruffin. I have heard many criticisms, particularly about the transformation of the CICE into a drop in charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u182	It's not a charge, it's a contribution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u183	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u184	Thank you for letting me ask my question to the end! About the CICE – which, from my point of view, contributes to job creation – I would have liked to hear you also talk about investment, which you have not mentioned at all. Not without some impertinence, and despite what you call the "unfortunate" reduction in corporate tax, I would also like to hear about production taxes. Indeed, I feel that the tax policy on financing and support for companies is bearing fruit, particularly in terms of France's attractiveness and competitiveness. However, today there remains a very dark point with these taxes, which I would like to hear you mention the possible and expected decrease.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u185	Mr. Henri Sterdyniak has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u186	The strategy of attractiveness through the reduction of taxes on the richest and large companies did not give a boost to the French economy. Growth was 3% in 2017, 1.2% in 2018 and 0.9% in 2019. We must therefore ask ourselves whether the chosen strategy is the right one. In terms of attractiveness and competitiveness, on a global level, it's stuck! On the other hand, French companies are now in debt at very low rates, and there are no heavy financial constraints on their investments. There is, therefore, no question today of significantly reducing the tax burden on businesses, as this should be compensated, in one way or another, by reductions in public expenditure, which have been seen to be not so easy to obtain. As far as production taxes are concerned, this is a completely different subject, which we do not have time to address. Many of these taxes are fully justified in France. They are intended to finance activities that directly benefit specific branches. The C3S, or social contribution of solidarity of societies, may be a little too much. It has been the subject of a choice by the Government that we do not have time to discuss. Should the housing tax really be reduced by 20 billion, with all the problems it poses on the democratic level? Perhaps it would have been better to lower the C3S, but that's another subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u187	These exchanges were very enriching and exciting. Thank you for this initiative. We will continue the debate in the presence of the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, who joined us and whom I will invite to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u188	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u189	I want to send a clear message: this Government has had only one objective since the beginning of the quinquennium, that of creating jobs for the French. To reach it, it takes work, so orders. To win orders in a globalized economy, you have to be competitive. In recent years, France had higher levels of taxation than its European partners, resulting in massive losses of jobs and market shares. In the case of capital taxation, before the reform, the level of taxation was thus 3 percentage points higher than the European average. Marginal income tax rates were up to 62% for interest rates, compared to an average of 28% in Europe, and dividend taxation up to 44%, compared to an average of 26%. As far as corporate tax is concerned, the effective rate for some businesses could be 40% – I am well placed to know it since I led one that experienced this level of taxation. This is due to the fact that the losses of certain activities were not taken into account and that the deduction of certain expenses was made impossible, given that the normal rate was 33 per cent, plus the addition of 10 points. With regard to the financing of social protection, different models exist in Europe. France has historically chosen to divide it between social contributions and taxes. But the level of contributions in France has gradually shifted from that of the average of the other European countries which have chosen roughly the same model – it is not possible to compare it with Finland which has opted for a greater use of tax. The CICE provided an initial response, particularly for salaries close to SMIC. But there are two problems with this system. The first is the time lag between the time that the company pays the employees and the time that it receives the tax credit, which is not very healthy and ends up keeping the payroll at a high level since some companies had chosen, in their presentation, to include the tax credit in the payroll but rather at the bottom of the profit and loss account. The second is that for wages above two SMICs, the cost of work in France is singularly higher than in other European countries. Moreover, in Spain, one of our main industrial competitors, it is 40% lower. It is not necessary to think very long to understand why some companies resort to relocation in the automotive industry – especially as Spain, it is not very far from France. To quote other figures, I note that France has lost 1 million industrial jobs in 20 years. For example, half of the world's market share was lost in the pharmacy sector between 2008 and 2018. I am not going back to the deficit in the external trade balance. The responsibility of our Government and the majority of us has been to put in place a tax system that allows us to win orders and, in the medium term, to create room for investment in innovation, because that is how jobs can be created. In this context, the Government's policy is structured around three areas. First, we must ensure that our companies work in conditions of competition close to those of their competitors from countries whose social and environmental model has the same level of requirement as ours. From this point of view, it is not indecent to compare for example with Germany, the Netherlands or Scandinavian countries. I want to be clear on this point: it is not in any way a question of being less so-called fiscally. In fact, the reality is that we are rather at the top of the range, even at the end of this five-year period, compared to the average of European countries: this will be the case, for example, with a 25% corporate tax. However, France is back in the game, it is not completely disconnected. Secondly, there is a need for simple, predictable and production-oriented taxation. Finally, we must fight for fair international competition – I will come back to that. As far as capital taxation is concerned, this has led to the introduction of the UFP, which brings simplicity, readability and lower taxation of capital, making investment in our productive activities attractive to investors who have turned away from our country. The solidarity tax on wealth, on the other hand, has been refocused on real estate. Today, it appears to be more equitable and makes tax optimization more difficult. Corporate tax is a signal for investors internationally; In particular, it is one of the criteria chosen by international rankings to identify the areas suitable for investment, but also by a company manager who, in choosing the country in which he wishes to set up a new site, refers to a normative rate. In this sense, a rate of 25% is a clear signal, which makes it possible to claim greater attractiveness. There is also a need to sanctify the research tax credit because it has been a proven model for more than ten years. It was not by chance that this system went through the legislatures, but because the successive governments were largely convinced of its effectiveness. As far as social contributions are concerned, we have removed the CICE in order to return to this logic of combining wage increases with lower social charges. However, the problem of wage competitiveness above two SMICs remains. Finally – and this is an important point – how can we proceed when we want to fight to achieve fair international competition, to what is called a level playing field, in other words a fair playing field? Our strategy is to adopt minimum taxation in all sectors – this is one of the pillars of the policy that we are claiming in the OECD – and a specific tax on digital platforms, since that of the other sectors is on average 14% higher. I will conclude by stating first of all that we have made efforts to put in place diagnostic tools, including a committee to evaluate the reforms on capital taxation – which Members in particular want – with a high level of transparency. Of course, not all the results are yet known, but some positive elements have already emerged, such as economic performance. I will not go back to the 700000 jobs created in the last three years, nor to the fact that we are now the first country in terms of the level of foreign investment in industry – France has twice as many projects as Germany – and in research and development centres. Nor will I go back to the fall in unemployment, which, if it does not yet reach what we collectively want, has its lowest level in ten years. However, all these elements must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u190	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u191	"Emmanuel Macron's economic policy first benefits the assets and the wealthiest. These words are not mine: they are taken from an article published yesterday in Le Monde. According to a study published by the OFCE on the same day, of the 17 billion euros distributed to households since the beginning of the quinquennium, more than a quarter, or about 4.5 billion, went in addition to the disposable income of the most affluent 5%. Here's your policy! I will add to that a few numerical estimates to highlight the services provided to a system, and to the richest, and not to all citizens. Over the five-year period, this represents EUR 16 billion thanks to the abolition of the ISF, EUR 8.5 billion thanks to the flat tax, EUR 10.9 billion thanks to the reduction in corporate tax and, on the cake, EUR 142 billion thanks to the CICE and its transformation into a reduction in employers' social contributions – not "burdens", Madam Secretary of State – without any consideration. I will also mention the EUR 5 billion reduction in income tax, the abolition of the last third of the housing tax and the defiance of overtime. This system is a real manufacturing machine for the poor, whose standard of living deteriorates by 240 euros per year. In 2019, there was a record distribution of dividends for CAC40 companies, amounting to €49.2 billion. The replacement of the IFI by the IFI, the property tax, has, without surprise, benefited the most affluent, and the flat tax to the richest 15%, with a considerable impact for the most affluent 5% who benefit from an average annual gain of €2905. What about the others? What about the rest of the French? They have suffered savings on their health care system and on the APL – personalized housing subsidies – their social benefits are unindexed, their pensions are planed and positions of state officials are being abolished. Yes, 260,000 jobs were created last year, but the CSD remains the majority. On the other hand, this figure is linked to the explosion of self-entrepreneurship, an unstable status since two-thirds of these professionals abandon their activity after three years. So what are the positive economic and social consequences of all these cuts? The French are still waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u192	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u193	Many things have been said and they are not perfectly accurate. Firstly, the OFCE report does indicate that those who work have seen their purchasing power increase. It's pretty good, because that's our goal. We want to create jobs on the territory for those who are now far from the world of work, which allows them to regain a more favourable financial situation. According to OECD figures, since 2018, purchasing power has increased by €590 per year, with an average gain per household of even €725 per year for assets. Secondly, when I talk about job creation, it concerns paid employment. In this connection, I would like to point out that the proportion of CDI has increased compared to that of precarious jobs...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u194	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u195	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u196	... and, on the other hand, it was mainly young people who benefited from these job creations – even though older people also benefited. It seems to me important to provide these clarifications which run counter to certain prejudices. The facts are stubborn, so are the numbers. Microenterprises are not counted as job creation. But you are right to mention this point because, in 2018, the number of business start-ups increased by 40%, while the number of failures decreased by 13%. That's the numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u197	It's uberization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u198	Who, you ask me, benefits from economic policy? It benefits people who are in a dynamic of exit from a situation of precariousness and return to the world of work. That is exactly what we are looking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u199	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u200	You are telling us, Madam Secretary of State, that corporate tax should be reduced because it was lower in other European countries, and you have reduced it to 25% – and again, let's face it, is this rate always higher in France than elsewhere. It is with this logic that you have removed the exit tax, introduced a flat tax, that you have removed the solidarity tax on wealth. In essence, your action is not new, it is in line with the evolution of taxation which, for thirty years in Europe, consists of taxing capital less and less, mobile bases because we are afraid that they will leave; large companies that are likely to relocate their head offices should not be affected. On the other hand, the burden of taxation on the immobile bases, i.e. towards very small enterprises – TPE – and small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – and on us, because I am not going to relocate to Andorra or Spain. So this is the movement, a movement which is not your own and which is that of Europeanisation, of globalisation. That's the slope we're committed to. What is new is that, normally, the role of politics is to curb globalization. Now you have removed the brake and, as a result, we are falling down the slope. The study by the OFCE that has just appeared shows that you have made the 5% of the richest French earn 1,500 euros a year and lost 240 euros to the poorest 5%. And, in one year, the number of poor has increased by 400,000, while, if the 500 largest families, let's call them, had the equivalent of 5 per cent of GDP 20 years ago, this rate has risen to 25 per cent on Macron's arrival, as globalization has already done its job under previous governments. Well, you, in two years, have increased that proportion from 25% to 30%! You have therefore, I repeat, removed the brake, whereas the role of politics is to act as a buffer against the explosion of inequalities produced by globalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u201	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u202	First of all, we have not removed the exit tax, but we have transformed it. Similarly, we did not remove the ISF but turned it into an IFI. Finally, corporate tax is not yet at the rate of 25%. I give these details so that what we are discussing corresponds to reality. The reality is also the need to obtain markets. However, when there is a 40% cost offset compared to Spain, with regard to the cost of producing a part in the automotive sector, your risk, even if you reduce your margin to nothing, is to lose the market. This is exactly what happened to France, which in recent years has lost 1 million jobs in industry. Thanks to the action of the Government, we are now creating employment in the industry, and this in a massive way, we are creating more industrial sites than we do. I therefore prefer to create jobs by allowing us to invest in France, to set up sites there and, yes, to make money there. And all this is not done at the expense of SMEs or mid-size companies – ETI. When you are at the head of an ITE and you have to win markets, you must have conditions equivalent to those of your competitors in order to conduct your operations. That is the subject, Mr Ruffin, and we must understand it in all its breadth. It is the Government's approach, which helps SMEs and ITEs to invest in technology – that is the whole stake, for example, in the industry plan of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u203	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u204	My questions relate to projects affecting business taxation and, more specifically, their impact on the territories. I will refer to the proposed reform of production taxes, which certainly have different bases, but which, above all, are mainly allocated to the communities. So will the latter be involved in the establishment of the reform? My second question concerns rural revitalization areas – ZRR – which allow for a specific exemption from income tax and corporate tax. They encourage the maintenance or development of a network of TPEs and SMEs and the preservation of employment in rural areas. However, this arrangement is extended until 31 December. On 1 January 2021, what will be the Government's policy to strengthen the attractiveness of the most fragile territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u205	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u206	As far as production taxes are concerned, the proceeds of the company's solidarity social contribution, known as C3S, are allocated exclusively to the State budget and amount to €3.8 billion. It is therefore perfectly possible to reduce it without having to ask the local authorities for their opinion. As far as other production taxes are concerned, i.e. just over EUR 65 billion, it is clear that local authorities are subject to concerted action. We have thus begun the work of the productive pact since last June and the regions are systematically involved in all the working groups. Then, on everything related to production taxes, Bruno Le Maire himself leads the consultation, not only with the regions, the departments, the public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – but also with the municipalities. This work is therefore done in good intelligence. Production taxes affect in particular the companies that produce in our territories. It is important to remind him. Fifteen days ago, we gathered 500 ETIs of which 80% of the production is carried out in France, ETIs which are the main drivers of job creation. However, these companies have pointed out that the more they invest, the more production taxes they pay, which is totally paradoxical. I'm coming to the ZRR. As I mentioned earlier in the review of the finance bill, we have extended the mechanism to allow the RRA evaluation mission to make its findings based on which we will propose measures to encourage investment in the territories. It is the whole meaning of devices such as city core action or industry territories, which allow us to concentrate very important means in favour of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u207	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u208	The challenge to pension reform cannot hide the origin of the feeling of social injustice that has been expressed for several months, in particular the misallocation of wealth. Fostering the wealthiest is tackling solidarity and challenging tax consent, which is weakening the foundations of social cohesion and increasing tensions. You have, therefore, not said "deleted" but "transformed" the ISF, created by President Mitterrand under the original name of "tax on great fortunes", whose marginal rate was only 1.5%, a small effort demanded of the great fortunes for the common good. The argument that the ISF was a tax exile factor is misleading, since only 0.2% of taxable persons left the territory without any evidence that this tax was the cause. What's the end result? The IFI, which replaced the ISF, will have twice as many taxable persons. Half of the greatest fortunes escape. Moreover, movable assets, which are largely composed of financial securities, are now exempt from taxation, while, as everyone knows, the share of movable capital increases with income. There are some €3 billion in lost profits every year, and of course less for public services and users. In addition, the IFI has no incentive effect, unlike the ISF, and donations to associations have decreased by half. The single flat-rate levy, on the other hand, saves the well-off €2 billion. Finally, by favouring the financial rent to the detriment of work, you were counting on the theory of runoff that is not verified, we saw it with the stakeholders who preceded you. Madam Secretary of State, the conclusions of the report you commissioned from the Capital Reforms and Taxation Evaluation Committee show that the tax paid by those subject to the ISF has been divided by 3.5 and 5% of the richest have benefited from more than half of the tax gains. You have to hear it and change lines. In France and, of course, at European level, how are you going to...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u209	It is time to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u210	I have a question about Europe, Madam Secretary of State, on the convergence of rates and on tax controls...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u211	We shall give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u212	The social crisis that broke out last year does not seem to me to be linked to the redistribution of wealth: we are one of the most important countries in Europe. When you observe income inequality before and after redistribution, you see that France is one of the countries of Europe, with one or two Scandinavian countries, where the Gini coefficient is the lowest. Several studies, in particular sociological studies, show that we should instead criminalize social immobility: in France, we need five to six generations to change the social category – that is unbearable and which explains why we invest massively in the territories, with the system of industrial territories, in the skills in order to allow people to be more mobile, but also in the school, where the fight against social immobility must be led in the first place. I'm coming to the ISF. The 1.5% marginal tax rate was actually higher than much of the wealth. So, every year, wealth was taken from capital. It is to be welcomed, in any case it was not "marginal". Secondly, since you mentioned Mr Mitterrand, economic studies have been carried out which have shown that this tax would have caused us to lose 40 billion euros of GDP, in investments not made in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u213	We want more precise figures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u214	Under the IFI, financial securities held directly or indirectly are taxed ; It is therefore the whole of the real estate assets that is concerned. Previously, the wealthiest people paid a 0.2% rate under the ISF – a tax that was not fair because, in reality, it was easy to escape it, which is not the case with the IFI today. Last point, everyone complains that we have less ITE than in Germany; But one in two companies is transferred there, compared to only 17% in France – a low tax rate that we have corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u215	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u216	Running behind neighbouring countries with the lowest wages ends up costing us a lot: it's the cost of a relocation. Whirlpool Amiens has moved his company to Poland, where the salary is 549 euros net per month. France is thus facing a triple penalty: the relocation of the company creates unemployment at home, paid by the community; There is also a climate cost – since dryers are now imported into France, with the pollution it generates – and a tax cost since the company that, located in Amiens, was paying taxes in France is no longer there to do so. These costs must be taken into account, and that is why we say that it is better to invest public money in order for an industrialist to maintain a business in our country. This is how we will save our industry rather than let it go as you did with Whirlpool Amiens. Then, in the first part of this debate, we learned that the exemptions from contributions, the reduction in taxation, especially taxation on wealth, have represented, over the last five years, 186 billion euros – gifts to companies in our country. I ask you for a figure, Madam Secretary of State: how many jobs have been created in industry in full-time CDI, what is the positive balance in terms of industrial jobs? You keep giving figures of jobs created, but what is the balance of jobs created in industry? I am not talking about Uber or Deliveroo-type jobs, about these precarious contracts, but about industrial jobs. How many have been created in France since you put this policy in place? Finally, you mentioned an increase in investment. Well, we want to know how many investments have been made by the 600,000 households that paid the ISF and that no longer pay it. According to the theory of runoff and that of the "first ropes" theorized by the President of the Republic, these super rich would invest. How much, therefore, have the 600,000 households, which have a taxable assets of 1000 billion euros, invested in their professional activity? They invested in businesses as this was not taken into account in the calculation of the ISF. I want to know how much, because of your policy, they've invested,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u217	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u218	...and how many industrial enterprises have been created. Indeed, you are talking about creating industrial sites: how many sites have been created in relation to the number of deletions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u219	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u220	You are right, honourable Member, we must be able to calculate the negative externalities: carbon emissions from the production abroad of goods imported into our country should, in a way, be taxed. The industry's carbon emissions in France have declined by 40% over the last 20 years, but over the same period, our carbon footprint has increased by 11%, all because our imports have increased. That is the whole issue of the carbon inclusion mechanism at the borders we are fighting for in Brussels. Why is Whirlpool moving to Poland? Because the French cannot afford to pay 500 or 600 euros for a washing machine or dryer. There is a difference of 1000 euros between the average cost of a car produced in France and that of the same car built in Spain. As long as consumers are not ready to pay an additional 1000 euros, which I can understand, the order book will not be filled. Finally, it is the consumer who makes a decision; It's not the company. It is wrong to oppose people to companies, because they themselves are people, jobs. The company is a normative fiction behind which there are shareholders – who are they? the question deserves to be asked – employees and subcontractors. As far as industrial employment is concerned, we give figures of net creations – they are not pure creations. Over the past two and a half years, 23,000 net industrial jobs have been created. I would point out that an industrial job creates four to five jobs in services and that between 2000 and 2016, not a single net industrial job had been created. Some years – this was obviously the case in 2008-2009 – even real bleeds were deplored, with 140,000 or 180,000 jobs lost. We have also created 700000 jobs that are not Uber jobs. Most of these are open-ended contracts. The distribution between CDD and CDI has benefited CDI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u221	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u222	The difference in revenue between the ISF and the IFI is now only EUR 1.5 billion, as we have collected more IFIs than was originally estimated. We do not have precise details on how this delta has been distributed, but compare it to the 2400 billion of GDP: this does not represent an essential part of the taxes or value produced in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u223	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u224	Madam Secretary of State, my question is labour taxation. While corporate income taxes decreased by €11.5 billion between 2012 and 2019, this decrease was offset by the increase in employers' actual social contributions over the same period. According to INSEE data published in 2019, this increase is estimated at €29.6 billion. In order to stem the rise in social security contributions, several measures have recently been decided, including the transformation of the CICE into a permanent decrease in employer social security contributions for remuneration not exceeding 2.5 SMIC, since 1 January 2019. What are the consequences of the transformation of the CICE into a permanent drop in charges since 1 January 2019? In your opening remarks, you indicated that in France, beyond 2 SMICs, labour taxation is still too important, especially in comparison with other European countries. As a result, do you plan to extend the permanent reduction of expenses to remuneration up to 3.5 SMICs? A request to this effect is made not only by industry but also by the digital sector. We need it to attract highly qualified profiles, paid beyond 3.5 SMIC, in order to ensure the competitiveness of our companies – otherwise these highly mobile staff will travel abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u225	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u226	All the figures you give are correct, and you are right, Member. It should be noted, however, that, from a financial point of view, the sustained decline in costs that replaced the CICE is less advantageous than the latter. On the one hand, one loses a point of taxation compared to the CICE and, on the other hand, one no longer benefits from the specificity of the tax credit – taking into account in the corporate tax base has an effect for companies making profits. To give an example, the company I was working for before joining the Government, which had 40 million euros in net income at the end of the year, suffered a negative impact of around 3 to 4 million euros. On the other hand, it is very positive that this reduction in costs is permanent and plays on the wage bill. It is not taken into account a posteriori but as soon as investment decisions and the development of a business plan are taken into account. On the other hand, the tax credit was very uncertain and could only be taken into account in fine – it might even be considered a boon effect. According to the evaluation board, between 100,000 and 150,000 jobs were created as a result of the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in social security contributions. This trend gives SMEs and mid-cap companies greater freedom in their recruitment. A competitiveness gap exists well beyond 2 SMICs. Today, the subject is on the table, but we do not have a particular plan in one direction or another. Social protection must be financed, and our aim is to chart a clear and established fiscal path. There is no question of alternating between reductions in production taxes coupled with increases in social contributions and reductions in social contributions resulting in tax increases, i.e. giving with one hand what is being withdrawn from the other. This is not our intention at all; What we want is to give companies visibility and predictability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u227	We still have enough time, Madam Secretary of State, for me to question you in my turn. The transport payment is a particularly badly felt production tax, especially in rural areas where it applies, while public transport is very low. I can mention the case of companies with more than one hundred employees, not one of whom uses public transport because they are not served, because the employees live in rural areas or because the timetables linked to the rate of work in 2x8 or 3x8 exclude the use of public transport. Nevertheless, these companies pay the transport payment: it is unbearable! Another subject: I have no doubt that the research tax credit is very beneficial for the Saclay plateau, but for SMEs it is a very heavy scheme. Small companies find it difficult to fulfil drastic conditions to benefit from it: to make PhD students work, to ensure a follow-up of research... When they have made use of this system and are controlled by the tax authorities, tax recalls can reach very high amounts, which may call into question their very existence – I have a specific example in this regard. I conclude by referring to the programme of the territories of industry. As often now, we have put our territories in competition. I did just like the others: as a good bounty hunter, I tried to have my territories classified as industrial territories. However, what is the objective and positive consequence of this ranking? The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u228	In the framework of the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE, we had been thinking about raising the threshold for making a company subject to transport payments to 50 employees. During the consultation with local authorities on this subject, they expressed strong opposition to this proposal because the compensation set up in the context of raising the threshold from nine to eleven employees was contested. There is also, as you say very well yourself, Mr. Le Fur, a mobility issue. Everyone agrees that the large cross-sections, the large mobility equipment, are in place, but that we have lost in the quality of public service on the small arteries that allow to circulate in the territories. Transport payments are a real challenge for local communities. I would like to refer the matter to businesses and local authorities. It is up to companies to be demanding with their local authorities to get a return of their transport payments. It is intended to finance shuttles, buses or small TER lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u229	If employees leave their jobs at two o'clock in the morning in rural areas, they will not find a bus line in operation. It's simply not organized!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u230	Now, with the mobility guidance law, which allows you to go beyond standardized transport, you can organize specific shuttles. It is true that it will take a little time for this to be put in place. Today, 66% of the research tax credit claims go to SMEs and mid-cap companies. They therefore benefit greatly. You're right about the documentation of the research expense. Bercy's mediation is strongly sought on this subject. The question of the research tax credit often goes back to business tax files. We need to make progress in securing the approaches of SMEs that must be able to prove that they are doing research that falls within the scope of the scheme. I had to deal personally with tax recall issues that might put businesses at risk. The scheme does not aim to put the territories into competition, but to break down the silos between the State services, its operators, the services of the local authorities and the enterprises to build collective industrial development projects in four directions: better recruitment and better search for skills; better innovation; ensure greater attractiveness; simplify. We have voluntarily given this mechanism some flexibility. We left 124 territories before going up to 146. We are beginning to hear territories that wonder: do I need to be labeled? Some regions also consider that this does not really start. For our part, we remain listening. The device is not closed. It created a dynamic: at the end of last year, there were about 1000 actions, already launched or at project stage, in all the territories of industry. These are very concrete actions, such as the setting up of a branch of an apprenticeship training centre which would enable young people to be trained in a type of specific skills sought by the 15 companies in need. The project involves the conversion of a building into a place of reception for apprentices, who could live there in small rooms without paying rents unrelated to the means of their families. In addition, this makes it possible to concentrate EUR 1.3 billion in state appropriations. Of course, this is not an additional amount, but I would prefer that these sums be spent on projects rather than seeing at the end of the year that they were not used.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u231	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u232	I'd like to go back to something that's taunting me. Tax relief on capital costs the nation's budget. Indeed, the reduction in corporate tax has been made without any consideration since the recipient companies do not have an obligation to invest, relocate production or raise wages. The drop in flat tax – the single flat-rate levy – has also not been subject to any conditions. The CICE, which is also granted to companies without requiring them to invest or comply with environmental, wage or social standards, will cost the State budget €142 billion over five years. At the same time, these companies that will pay less taxes, which will no longer be taxed on dividends and whose shareholders benefit from a tax shield distribute €60 billion in dividends for those of the CAC40. In a way, it is our money that we pay to companies and that is found in the shareholders' pocket. Is there not a huge contradiction between these gifts to companies – which you prefer to call "tax support" or "capital tax relief" – without any consideration, and the record dividend figures distributed to shareholders? If these companies distribute so many dividends, it is because they have the means to do so; Therefore, they should not benefit from the broad powers of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u233	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u234	Let's go back to how the dividends work. Only 15% of the production of CAC40 companies is based in France. These companies are indeed growing, but as a general rule, their area of growth is not France, nor even Europe; It's a lot of Asia and a bit of the United States. The increase in their dividends is linked to economic growth: in the Asian region, growth is in the range of 5 to 6 per cent. You will notice that the increase in dividends is less than this figure; the dividend distribution rate is stable – even if we can discuss it. I insist on this because we confuse the French economy with the companies of the CAC40. Looking at the national accounts as a whole, all non-financial corporations, the share of dividends distributed in total value added amounts to some 2.6% in 1993, which then remains roughly stable until 2001, and gradually rises to 5% before falling back to 2.5% in 2013; Since then, she has remained at this level. I am talking about net and non-gross dividends because, if the money flows between the different floors of a holding in the form of dividend distribution, it is always the same amount that goes up, counted several times. Thus, when we look at the reality of the distribution of dividends in our economy, we see that they represent exactly the same share of value added as in 1993. They are now below their level of 1995, 1997 and 1999, slightly above the level of 2001, and below their pre-2013 level. That's the reality! I'll refer you to the numbers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u235	That doesn't answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u236	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u237	Since you have just referred to foreign dividend returns and intra-group dividend distributions, I ask you the question I asked earlier. You know that, at each level, the mother-daughter plan erases the taxation of dividends, which are only taxed at the end, when they leave the group to be distributed to a natural person. Today, many dividends go back to companies that are developing in Asia, through holding companies often located in Hong Kong and Singapore, where ordinary tax rates are very low and where intellectual property is not taxed. However, the mother-daughter scheme ensures that these dividends are deducted from the tax result at the rate of common law; In this way, the French State offers an offshoring premium by repaying too much compared to what has been paid. On this subject, I had tabled amendments to the first finance law of the legislature to transform the mother-daughter system into a tax credit, which would make it possible never to repay too much. I hear that it is difficult to do so at the Franco-French level, because we are in a European universe; But could you please tell us, Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the international negotiations to remove this side effect which leads European countries to give bonuses for relocation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u238	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u239	We are here in a budgetary debate, and will therefore have other opportunities to address the issue...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u240	But it's essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u241	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u242	Speaking of raising dividends, you are in fact referring to the practice of a French holding company raising the value created in France in a foreign country. Indeed, when holding companies and subsidiaries are all located in France, the raising of dividends represents a simple circulation of money: all entities are then subject to the same tax regime. In Europe – the subject of Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel's question – our aim is to achieve fiscal and social convergence. When we mention social convergence, it coughs a little; There is a great deal of difficulty in achieving progress on fiscal convergence. But we French always put the subject back on the table. Our work within the OECD to introduce minimum taxation is part of this approach. On the other hand, when wealth is created in China, is it normal for France to tax it? This can be discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u243	Oh, no! It's still a financial flow that goes back to a French holding company! We cannot, on the one hand, let our multinationals relocate jobs, and on the other hand, allow the wealth that goes back to the French holding company to be imposed nowhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u244	That's not what I'm saying! Simply put, the main reasons for the relocation are not related to the mother-daughter scheme, but to the differences in competitiveness between countries, in particular the reality of the cost of the part at the exit from the factory and the reality of the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u245	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u246	When we produce in China, we serve the Asian market a lot because the upswing of goods to Europe involves logistics costs. If the product has high added value – in the case of electronics – it can be distributed on the world market; Otherwise, it will be in the Asian zone. It is here – and not in the mother-daughter diet – that the main drivers of profit circulation are found! I remain open to the debate to address the specific effect that you are referring to. In any event, within the framework of the OECD, our positions on taxation are always guided by the search for fair competition and not by the desire to give a premium to relocation. Where I am not joining you is that, for me, relocation refers to a question of competitiveness: it is due to the cost differential of going out of the factory and the consumer's refusal to pay more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u247	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for playing the game of this session, which, I say in front of those who started it, was a good initiative. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-06-O1137.u248	Next sitting, Tuesday, 11 February, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
