ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its examination of the overseas appropriations (No 3399, Annex 31 ; No 3400, Volume XIII; No 3404, Volume V), concluding Amendment No 2048.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u3	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 2048.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u4	I am defending him for our colleague Nicole Sanquer. As you know, aid for territorial continuity allows for the partial payment of the transport ticket for our fellow citizens wishing to travel to Hexagon. Nicole Sanquer has issued a report on the subject, in which she makes several recommendations to which we would like the Government to pay attention, especially since territorial continuity is one of the only subjects concerning overseas countries that was included in the programme of the President of the Republic. One of the recommendations is to raise the ceiling for eligibility for aid for territorial continuity in French Polynesia. Indeed, only French residents who have been living in Polynesia for more than six months and whose family quotient is less than EUR 14108 are eligible for this scheme. In 2018, only 492 Polynesians were able to see their transport title taken over: unfortunately, too many of our compatriots are therefore denied access to this device, which should therefore increase the eligibility ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u5	Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u6	We discussed this subject at length last night. Territorial continuity is an important element of overseas policy, including in the eyes of the President of the Republic. This year, the funds allocated to territorial continuity are increasing by just €3 million, the amount requested in your amendment. Perhaps the minister will be able to give us some clarifications. Since the committee has not voted on this amendment, I will issue a wisdom opinion on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u7	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u8	I have spoken at length last night about territorial continuity: I shall now be briefer in my opinions. Indeed, this amendment is already satisfactory: as the Special Rapporteur has said, the appropriations are increased by EUR 3 million and, as I said last night, the decree has been amended. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u9	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u10	Indeed, this amendment is now satisfactory, and we thank the Government for having accepted this request. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u11	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor again to support Amendment No. 2055.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u12	Presented by our colleague Philippe Dunoyer, this amendment concerns the income ceilings set out in the 2009 Overseas Development Act, known as the LODEOM Act. These led to a three-fold division, between 2011 and 2016, of the number of Caledonians eligible for aid for territorial continuity. The ceilings are too low for the cost of living, which is high in New Caledonia, so that the aid is limited to beneficiaries who, in any event, could not bear the rest of the costs of a plane ticket. I remind you that a round trip between Nouméa and Paris costs about 1500 euros, and that the amount of aid for territorial continuity provided for by the decree of 13 February 2015 for residents of New Caledonia is only 160 euros for so-called "simple" aid, raised to 530 euros if the family quotient is less than 10000 euros. The user is therefore responsible for the summation of 1340 euros. The amount of aid is therefore inconsistent. We therefore question the usefulness of aid for modest households, who are asked to support around EUR 1000 per airline ticket. Several roundtables were held on this issue in 2020, and the Minister himself acknowledged that there was a problem in determining the coverage limits. As the amendment calls for, we must therefore find a solution by means of a decree, since it is indeed a regulatory act, not the law, which sets out the arrangements for taking over.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u13	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u14	The devil often hides in the details... Although territorial continuity is often taken care of, there is a kind of injustice to modest households in this case. This is, as you said yourself, an appeal amendment. The problem is likely to be resolved in a way other than through legislation. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I have heard your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u15	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u16	The same argument as for the previous amendment, since it is the same appropriations and the same decision. The amendment being partially satisfied, request for withdrawal or unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u17	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u18	I note that the Government is committed to dealing with the issue through regulation, which is in response to the request of our colleague Philippe Dunoyer. I therefore gladly withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u19	You have the floor, Mr Brindeau, to support Amendment No. 2053.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u20	This is again an amendment by our colleague Philippe Dunoyer on territorial continuity. It aims to impose on the State, exceptionally, in order to strengthen the cohesion between the different territories of the Republic or between the different territories distant or landlocked from the same community, certain local transport costs normally provided by the territorial authority competent in this field. Such funding already exists, in particular to allow controlled travel between the islands of Wallis and Futuna, but also to ensure external territorial continuity, allowing the company managing the public service delegation to propose a special fare for flights in continuity of an outward flight. With this amendment, our colleague Philippe Dunoyer would like to allow the archipelago of New Caledonia to benefit from territorial continuity for inter-island relations. Despite subsidies from the provinces, the remaining costs of users remain high. He would also like continuity to apply to regional links serving as a gateway to the international scene, such as Auckland, Osaka or Sydney, as is already the case for Wallis-et-Futuna or Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. It should be noted that in the case of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the Finance Bill provides that the Government's financial commitment, initially of 13.7 million euros over five years, will be reduced by 2.5 million euros to reflect a 25% reduction in tariffs on the link between Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Halifax, Canada. To the extent that the budget appears to be available, we would like to be able to provide Caledonians with similar support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u21	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u22	We have already exchanged on these subjects last night – double insularity and interlocking within our archipelagos. This is a real problem, which we do not yet have a satisfactory answer to make. As the minister pointed out, this is in principle a non-state jurisdiction, but the communities can only assure it in an imperfect way – you just described it. The committee has not voted on this amendment, but on a personal basis, I believe that there is a path to be co-built between the state and local and regional authorities in order to be able to respond to all people living in the overseas areas, including in the most remote areas. I am therefore in favour of your appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u23	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u24	As I said last night, we must be particularly consistent on this issue if we do not want to lose the thread. As you have pointed out, the local authorities are the organising authorities for transport throughout their territory, both overseas and in Hexagon – this also concerns the territories of the Breton coast or the Atlantic facade, whose regional councils or intercommunalities must also ensure the transport with a number of islands and bear the cost. Therefore, it is either a decentralised competence, and it is then up to the communities to ensure the burden and organisation of transport, either there is a problem of pricing, and the subject needs to be dealt with locally, or there is a problem of financing the scheme, and it is also necessary to deal with it locally, because often – and it is not said – a tax has been lifted to finance these public services. In the case of Pacific communities, there is no doubt: jurisdiction has been fully transferred. But if you don't divide the roles correctly, do everything half way around, you end up doing things wrong. I say this in front of Maina Sage, who yesterday drew my attention to the big airlines, which are in great difficulty at the moment: in this case it falls well within the role of the State and national solidarity to accompany them, because the problem is much more serious and goes beyond that of territorial continuity. As regards relations within the archipelagos, I remain convinced that this competence has been completely transferred, with all the necessary means. Of course, compensation is not to the euro, as demand for public services is growing. If we go to the end of this subject, we must rest on the question of the distribution of powers between the State and, respectively, the different territorial authorities or local governments. If provisions such as territorial continuity between the islands are to be financed from the general State budget, in other budgetary missions, parliamentarians from rural territories or elected representatives from the coast in Hexagon will say that they too must balance transport between two rural territories. We must therefore pay close attention to the decisions we make. I would like to accede to the request of MP Philippe Dunoyer, with whom I was still with last week, in the province of the Loyalty Islands. I have heard the questioning of our fellow citizens on these issues, but we must clarify the role of everyone: if, at national level, we want to devote our resources and energy to helping airlines, we cannot, in addition, finance double territorial continuity. Or, as the Special Rapporteur invited us to do, it will be necessary to rest this question of the distribution of transport competence in the context of the bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration, says 3D. Without that, we'll blur the lines. We keep saying that each stratum has to have a jurisdiction and a level of tax, and then we would use the state budget to finance double continuity: in terms of management, this is not a good policy. I do not deny the problem, nor the expectations on the ground, but if we want to organise things properly, we must be careful. In the difficult period of crisis that we are experiencing and that will continue in the coming months, ensuring the link between Paris and the various overseas territories will not be a sinecure. I take your amendment as an appeal amendment, but I have the impression that this appeal comes back every year, without us ever going to the end of our sentences. The question of the distribution of competences must be asked once and for all. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u25	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u26	I hear the argument that you are developing, Minister, and the parallel that you are establishing between the metropolitan transportation communities and the overseas territories, which have themselves been transferred this jurisdiction. But you understand that the stakes are not the same between an island located a few kilometres from Brittany and the island situation of the Overseas Territories, particularly New Caledonia. Comparison is not right, but it seems to me that Guyana benefits from this mechanism. I mean that the question of the balance of competences should be rested in the context of decentralisation – but also, I believe, the question of the means accompanying the transfer of competences. As you have pointed out, the resources allocated for the transfer of powers are allocated for a given year, but the development of these competences then leads to additional burdens that only weigh on the territorial authorities – hence my parallel with the situation in New Caledonia. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u27	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u28	Thank you for initiating this discussion. Minister, there was a great debate here last year about territorial continuity. I would like to abound in the direction of the Special Rapporteur, also Chairman of our delegation to the overseas countries and territories. If the issue often comes up again, it is simply that our communities are struggling to close their budgets. This is no longer a question of the distribution of competences, but of compensating for the structural extra costs linked to geographical conditions, isolation, the nature of our territories, on their scale: in French Polynesia, we are less than 300,000 inhabitants for seventy-six inhabited islands and an area comparable to that of Europe. This necessarily raises the problem of profitability, if I may say so, of transport services. In Polynesia, we have established a competition authority, considering the possibility of opening certain lines to competition, of retaining public service obligations. It is a substantive debate: we will never have time to exhaust it in this House. On the other hand, we are ready to participate; Perhaps we should look at how things are going in some Hexagonian territories. However, we must take into account our specificities: remoteness, scale, population, but also geographical discontinuity. I stress this last point: in metropolitan France, an isolated rural commune has nevertheless a few neighbours with whom to set up an EPCI, a public institution for intercommunal cooperation, for example a community of communes. In Polynesia, it is very difficult to do so. In 2008, during the debate on the general code of local authorities, we were urged to go to associated communes; In practice, pooling skills is very complicated when geographical discontinuity occurs. I will also introduce an amendment, which I do not understand why it was not placed at this stage of the discussion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Sage. Your amendment will come a little later: we will discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u30	We shall be discussing this again, but I would stress that we must open the debate, go to the bottom of things, see how it would be possible to share this competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u31	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u32	Territorial continuity is a recurring, stable subject. A working group, which had recently taken over colours, must also provide answers in that area. Insularity is a reality. To answer to Pascal Brindeau, it is not quite the usual money-frac of decentralization that comes with an envelope that is known that the funds will be insufficient to meet the needs. Anyone who's been elected local knows these things are happening. On the other hand, this is an important structural subject which will have to be dealt with sooner or later. Again, work is under way: they must be given time to grow. That is why the moving Republic Group will follow the Government's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u33	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2049.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u34	This amendment by Nicole Sanquer is based on the recommendations contained in her information report on territorial continuity. It is intended to draw your attention, Minister, to the proper application of Article L. 1803-4 of the Transport Code, devoted to internal territorial continuity. This Article provides that eligibility for aid for internal territorial continuity will be subject to conditions of resources and difficulties of access to the territory concerned. Only Guyana now benefits from this mechanism: without denying the geographical particularities of the latter, other territories could legitimately be applied. How can we justify that French Polynesia, whose 118 islands are scattered over an area equivalent to that of Europe, is not eligible for this aid, especially since it would encourage the opening up of these islands and boost their economic development? Indeed, poverty is concentrated in the furthest of them. Minister, you have told us that this is a recurring problem, which everyone admits. This is your first budget as Minister for Overseas Affairs; This is not the first for us parliamentarians. Just because the problem is recurring, it's serious! From year to year, we are told that we need to review the whole system, the distribution of competences, the means of compensation; Finally, things are not moving forward. We are fully aware that the issue cannot be resolved in the context of a budgetary discussion. The difficulty, the reason why Nicole Sanquer tabled this amendment, Maina Sage has just mentioned it: outside the budgetary framework, this issue is never addressed. Therefore, Minister, we expect a clear commitment from the Government to reopen this debate so that it can be concluded. In French Polynesia, when you are in Tubuai and want to go to Hiva Oa, you make the equivalent of a Madrid-Oslo journey – and again, with a stopover in the middle! Of course, this problem is greater for some territories than for others; We will not settle it by repeating that it is recurring – even if it is not to you, minister, that I am bringing this case, but rather to all your predecessors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u35	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u36	A lot has already been said: I take it that the minister has expressed his willingness to put things to rest in the context of the "4D" bill, which is expected to come in the coming months. He said we had to finish our sentences. I agree with him on the need to finish our sentences on territorial continuity overseas: they have not been completed for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u38	I will not go back to what I said; I remain convinced that this problem is structural in nature and raises the question of competences. This is not a sentence in the air. For thirty or forty years we cannot have asked for the permanent transfer, enshrined in the Constitution, of certain powers of the State to the communities of the Pacific, which is indeed a good thing; and, when it is not possible to finance certain public services, to return to the state budget, without a comprehensive framework. With regard to these powers, this raises the question of the principle of subsidiarity. This is a good subject, because archipelagic territorial continuity is not alone in question: I see the same questions about the CSPE – contribution to the public service of electricity –, energy in general and many other subjects. I therefore propose that Parliament take stock of the transfers of powers made in recent years. It is interesting to note that today these communities, given the crisis and the structural difficulties, are no longer able to fully assume certain public services, certain skills, transferred over time. I don't blame anyone, but after a legitimate, self-sustaining background blade – being hardly Jacobin, I feel quite at ease to discuss these issues – it is clear that our bilateral meetings between territories and government are often devoted to competences that no longer belong to the state. The phenomenon is interesting. It is from this point of view that we must look at things. Moreover, in Guyana, around 700 people receive aid for territorial continuity each year, for an average ticket of 29 or 30 euros. Let us be frank: it cannot be said that it is a great success. Mr Lagarde, I come back to the amendment that you are defending on behalf of Mrs Sanquer: the introduction in New Caledonia or French Polynesia of an effective analogous mechanism, that is to say, acting as a lever, would require much more than the million euros you are proposing; and even with this structural effect, it would rest on the question of competition. Édouard Fritch, the president of French Polynesia, often comes back: the price of the ticket depends on the flows, that is, the ability to generate a lot of tickets to reduce costs, but also the degree of competition. There are monopolistic situations which make matters very difficult and which, unfortunately, we have to settle ourselves, because we also support the companies in question. I therefore agree with you, Mr Lagarde: this is a comprehensive subject, which we cannot deal with in two or three amendments in the context of a budgetary debate. It raises structural, structural questions that extend beyond territorial continuity, since we see them emerging in the field of energy, where they have not arisen in the last ten years. In any case, thank you for these amendments: they emphasize organizational difficulties, which we will have to resolve, between the state and the communities of the Pacific; I am not even talking about New Caledonia, where the distribution of competences is of even greater complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u39	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u40	Minister, I agree with your commitment to address these problems in a comprehensive and structural manner, which, of course, are not exclusively Polynesian. Before I withdraw this amendment, I would just like to make it clear that if it was worth EUR 1 million, it was obviously not because Nicole Sanquer did not know that it would have taken more, but because Parliament was paralysed by the budgetary logic and technique of the Fifth Republic, we could only afford an appeal amendment to stimulate debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u41	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u42	I asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u43	Again, this is an amendment by Nicole Sanquer, resulting from the recommendations of his report; But it's about a different subject. It is intended to draw the Government's attention to the need to fix aid for territorial continuity in the form of a percentage of the transport document rather than a lump sum. This request seems to be met by this mission, which we can only welcome, but I would like to have confirmation of that. Providing aid for territorial continuity as a share of the transport document would ensure its fairness from one territory to another, regardless of the amount of the title. Nicole Sanquer's report indicates that this aid represents an average of 40 per cent of the cost of transport in the overseas departments and only 10 per cent in the overseas communities. This is understandable: tickets are much more expensive in the latter, for the reasons you mentioned, including distance. Since the amount of aid is flat-rate, beneficiaries who have less distance to travel and buy their ticket cheaper are helped more than others, which is neither logical nor equitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u44	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u45	Once again, Mr. Lagarde, you're right. In fact, I have accepted an interesting proposal from the minister to assess the effect of transfers of powers on territorial continuity. It is a good way to put everything down and, to quote it again, to finish our sentences on the occasion of Bill 4D. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u47	Through you, Mr Lagarde, I would like to thank the parliamentarians of your IDU and independent group who have been involved in the working groups that I created when I was appointed rue Oudinot, at the Overseas Ministry. A number of recommendations emerged from this work. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice. Your request will indeed be satisfied, not within the framework of the law, but by decree: the take-over will be increased to 40% of the price of the transport ticket. We will inform Philippe Dunoyer, Philippe Gomès, Nicole Sanquer, who participated in this work in person or through their parliamentary assistants. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the other Members who have also invested themselves in order to enable us to move things forward in the right direction. However, as with all individual support schemes, it will be necessary to assess the rate of recourse and, if I may say so, the success rate of these changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u48	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u49	I am very pleased to be the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the budget for the Overseas Mission. Mr Minister, I note that when we discuss with you, when we propose amendments, you always refer us to the division of powers, to the legislation, to the texts, which you have the desire to master very well. Yesterday, one of our colleagues spoke of "colonialism": it offended you, hurt you, to the point that you responded positively. Yet you cannot ignore that we are experiencing structural delays that have never been caught since 1946 – so I do not refer to colonization. In 1946, we left with extraordinary handicaps; When it comes to the overseas application of the texts adopted in metropolitan France, we have been provided for these famous articles 73 et seq. of the Constitution, which provide for the possibility of adapting or deferring their application. Today, all your answers bring us back to a problem of structuring our development, of real catching-up, that is to say of real equality. There was this law of 4 August 2014 on real equality: I don't know why we added "real" to "equality". The motto of the Republic being "Freedom, equality, fraternity", we are equal or we are not. In any event, you refer us each time to studies, reviews or flattening of a number of things. Minister, I would ask you to take us in this direction. Perhaps this can be done within the framework of the future law known as "3D" – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – or "4D", if it is combined with decomplexification; It is a question of ensuring that we can organize together, the state and local authorities, the work of structuring development, and that everyone knows what is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u50	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u51	Mr Mathiasin, I would not like to let a misunderstanding arise. If I agree with you about the objectives, I think we have gone beyond speech and words and are now in the implementation phase. The remarks made during the opening remarks seemed to me to converge, despite the differences in political sensitivities: the question does not relate as much to the substance as to the modalities and the date of implementation. We had an interesting debate last night on housing, in which Mr. Letchimy and Naillet told us about local specificities. I sincerely believe that we are all seeking to do well and that the real issue now concerns practical implementation. For my part, I do not attach myself to notions such as real equality, because it seemed to me, when I was elected local or parliamentary assistant, that by spending hours choosing the right words, we were moving away from the expectations of our fellow citizens. As you know, what they want is tap water! I propose that my road map to the end of the quinquennium, as Minister for Overseas Affairs, should focus more on the practical modalities of action than on the eternal major debates which have largely exhausted the patience of our fellow citizens, whatever they may be, in recent years: how can we build housing, for example, when the funds have been released? In the same way, with regard to the recovery plan, we all know – you will forgive me for my frankness – that the real challenge is to get the €1.5 billion allocated for the recovery of the overseas economy on time. I propose a pragmatic method, which is probably only a local elected method and which is worth what it is worth. Some of you have been mayor, deputy mayor, president of intercommunal or general council; It is in the dynamic of this local action that I wish to register, without turning to the past. Finally, it is true that I often refer to the competences of the various actors. Indeed – and I am still speaking to you as a local elected official – I consider that the implementation, after decolonization, of very ambitious decentralization movements for the overseas territories, based on trust in local elected officials, was the best thing to do: these movements encourage local responsibility, which supports genuine political, economic and intellectual emancipation. It's a sign of trust. I prefer to help local elected officials exercise their skills rather than take over from Paris, through the PLF, by denying these skills. We would not go in the direction of history by doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u52	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u53	I agree with the minister that the debate on overseas has often focused more on symbols than on realities, which they have sometimes even delayed progress. The amendment I am presenting on behalf of my colleagues Nicole Sanquer, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès illustrates this perfectly; It's about a subject that we've been talking about for many years, and that you're making progress today. On behalf of my three colleagues, I would like to thank you for the work you have undertaken, hoping that it will be implemented quickly and that the symbol will become a reality. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u54	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1963.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u55	We propose to increase the appropriations of Action 03 "Territorial Continuity" to help the relatives of a deceased ultramarine to travel to Hexagon to help with the repatriation of his body. Families, who do not always have the means to finance this repatriation, are often forced to make urgent calls for donations in the media or on social networks. In these moments of stress and anxiety, taking charge of the ticket price would be a very useful support for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u56	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u57	This is a painful subject. Last year, national representation, in agreement with the Government, adopted an amendment that I had tabled to increase the budget for funeral continuity by EUR 1 million. As you pointed out, the system provided for by the State is now totally unsatisfactory. Fortunately, everyone is aware of this. Indeed, the income criteria are discriminatory, in particular the family quotient of 6000 euros per share, which is insufficient. I will allow myself to be quite quiet on this subject, which has been the subject of several amendments before letting you have the opinion of the Government, Minister; I know that you have been attentive and sensitive to the arguments of national representation. As I indicated, the resource ceiling is far too low, making the system almost useless. Only a few people benefit each year. We therefore propose to increase the family quota of eligibility to 12000 euros, which, for a family of three or four, represents a fairly significant annual income. This is a first step. In addition, the scheme so far only authorizes the repatriation to their home territory of the deceased ultramarines who, after having gone to Hexagon to receive treatment, die there – the cost being calculated on the basis of the weight to be transported. This is unsatisfactory, because the deceased have a family, parents, brothers and sisters, who sometimes wish to accompany them one last time when they go to Hexagon to be treated. These trips were not taken care of so far, but I know that the minister has been very attentive to our collective arguments, which I am very pleased to hear. There is still one point on which we have not yet reached an agreement this year – but I do not despair, over time, of making progress on this issue. The problem is not only with the ultramarines who die in Hexagon and whose body must be repatriated. It also concerns all those who, born in an overseas department, have benefited...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u58	Benefited?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u59	...benefited, in quotation marks, from the Bumidom – Bureau for the Development of Migration in the Overseas Departments – and went to work in Hexagon, where there was a shortage of labour. Some wish to be buried in their original land, where they have their roots. There is still a way ahead with the Overseas Ministry, but I am sure that we will move forward together in the years to come. I therefore express an opinion in favour of your amendment, Mrs Bassire, as well as the Government, despite the nuances that the Minister will explain. In any event, I welcome the significant progress made by the Overseas Ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u61	The significant progress mentioned by the Special Rapporteur relates to an amendment by the Government that we will consider at a later stage. The Assembly's Overseas Delegation made proposals on the delicate issue of funeral continuity – an abrupt term that covers very humane and concrete realities. I propose that you present now the Government's amendment, which will justify my opinion on most of the following amendments. Although I am in favour of your amendment on the substance, Mrs Bassire, I would ask you to withdraw it because the Government's amendment abounds in appropriations and also changes the criteria of the scheme – something that your drafting does not allow. However, I recognize the "maternity" of these measures on the merits! Amendment No. 2223, as corrected by the Government, proposes to extend the scheme to the end of life beyond the mere death, since family solidarity often takes place a few hours or days before. To say so in a trivial way, it is therefore too late when the device is implemented. In addition, this amendment also broadens the concept of parents, whose brothers and sisters were previously excluded. The Government had taken into account the work of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, from all political groups. I was certainly not Minister for Overseas Affairs last year, but I know that the subject had been discussed at length in the House and I am replying to it with Amendment No 2223 as corrected, which makes it possible to move forward. As I have indicated to Mr Lagarde, this device will have to be evaluated, like all other individual devices. In any case, funeral continuity is a delicate subject, deserving the commitment of national solidarity. I therefore make a request for the withdrawal – benevolent – of Amendment No 1963 and will allow me to give more rapid opinions to subsequent amendments on the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u62	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2051.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u63	This is indeed an important step forward; the circumstances we refer to are always dramatic and require an urgent response. That is why our three Pacific colleagues, with Amendment No 2051, wanted to improve the existing system – which only benefited thirteen people in 2019. Minister, has an impact assessment been carried out to assess the number of people who could have benefited, in 2018 or 2019, from the measures planned by the Government – doubling the family quotient, a plethora of credits and widening the beneficiaries? The effect would not be the same, in fact, depending on whether the number of beneficiaries increased from thirteen to 400, or only from thirteen to fifteen. You are referring to an ex post evaluation, but I imagine that an impact assessment was also carried out in advance. In any event, we welcome this progress and I will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u65	Mr. Lagarde asks an excellent question, as often! It is difficult to estimate the number of beneficiaries, in the case of a phenomenon that is not controlled. By comparison, last year's appropriations of EUR 1 million were not consumed. The Government is cautious – we can understand it – in this step-by-step progress. I would like to see the trend in the consumption of these credits, which was largely under-consumed last year, communicated to us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u67	Mr Lagarde offers me the opportunity to complete the presentation of Amendment No 2223 as corrected, which I will no longer have to present earlier! I would like to make it clear, before you ask me about this, that it is the funeral that I referred to: the transport of bodies is not mentioned in the amendment, because it will be the subject of a decree. On the other hand, and to be frank, it is impossible for us to estimate the number of beneficiaries, because the use of the system is on demand. Those who had previously been excluded by the eligibility criteria did not apply, so that there was no refusal rate to refer to. We are therefore condemned to wait before knowing the number of beneficiaries. But I trust overseas parliamentarians, MPs and senators, as well as local elected officials: the change in the family quotient provided for in the amendment corresponds to the return of the land. The strictness of the previous ceiling excluded a very large number of requests, and doubling it today can only be a step forward. That's a cautious answer, but that's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u68	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u69	I understand, minister, the difficulty of this assessment. In this case – Mr Serva will no doubt share my opinion – the overseas delegation could no doubt be informed as the appropriations are consumed. It will thus know in the course of the year whether the scheme works or not, before next year's budget discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u70	I call Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2205.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u71	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u72	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1956.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u73	I would like to thank you, Minister, for your response yesterday to my colleague Karine Lebon on the aided contracts. Today I would like to share with you a difficulty that we are encountering with the career paths skills – PEC. The rate of government support for a young person under the age of 26 is 65 per cent, but it is much lower for those over the age of 26. However, the health crisis has affected a large number of companies and our unemployed in Réunion are unlikely to find a job. The only hope they have left is to benefit from this type of contract. Given the higher amount of aid paid to this public, communities will inevitably choose to recruit young people under the age of 26. Would there be an opportunity, Minister, to harmonize the rates of care in order to give as much opportunity to fathers as to younger ones to access these contracts? Some contracts require some experience and more skills than younger ones. I am thinking, for example, of jobs for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u75	Mrs Bassire, I am very sensitive to what you have just said. Why? Because overseas, there are specificities that call for differentiation – I didn't say so, it was the Prime Minister. Unemployment cannot be treated overseas as it is treated in Hexagon. It is not possible: we have two and a half to three times as many unemployed people. If we could do the same thing, we would have the same results, which is not the case. So we have to be tailor-made. One of the important ways of differentiation is based on what you have just indicated. An unemployed person, whether twenty-six or twenty-seven years old, remains an unemployed person with little prospect in a narrow, competitive market in areas where the population is often declining. Minister, I'm sure you'll be paying attention to these arguments, always on the road to construction, taking the time it takes, why not within the framework of the famous 4D bill to come? I really believe that this is a fundamental issue for ultramarines. When aided contracts are destroyed, this makes more unemployed. It is better for these people to be active, to form and to feel useful to society, to express themselves socially rather than to be beneficiaries of social minima. Favourable opinion – in my personal capacity, I would like to make that clear, because many of these amendments have not been considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u76	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u77	Since there is consistency between my personal opinion and the Government's opinion, the task will be easier for me. For the sake of the matter, Mr. Special Rapporteur, the CECs are an example of differentiation – there are things that are not well, but there are things that are better as well. The rates of support – apart from the new conditions of the recovery plan, which I will also talk about – are 45% for Hexagon and 55% for overseas. Whether this is enough or not, it is another debate, but it must be noted that the effort to differentiate has already been made, and for cause, since it was a matter of adapting to the particular needs of local and regional authorities – I will not go back to that, we have already talked enough about it last night. In addition, we have made the choice within the framework of the recovery plan to open up a large number of new CECs, especially for the overseas countries and especially for La Réunion, where we find that there have been more than in Guadeloupe and Martinique, if we look at their geographical distribution. History has gone through this and explains this diversity of local dynamics. Your amendment proposes an increase in appropriations. In the recovery plan, the sums involved are much higher, as hundreds of millions of euros will be released for the CECs. I said it last night and your amendment gives me the opportunity to reaffirm it before you this morning: the prefects have the hand to modulate the rates of support while remaining within the limits of a given envelope – that goes without saying, they cannot change the PLF in your place. The Prefect Billant will therefore be able to proceed to La Réunion. The question of the size of the communities arises: should the same rate be applied for the city of Saint-Denis, the city of Tampon and the smaller municipalities of the heights? The prefect will have the possibility to modulate the take-over rate, even if more appropriations are allocated to the same CECs in the overall envelope, which is inevitable. In this respect, I think that your amendment is in part satisfactory. Beyond the urgency of getting helped jobs – even if no one calls them that way anymore, that's what it's all about – what matters is that there is the corresponding support. In the context of the economic recovery, if the hiring takes place without support and the young people find themselves, when they leave the scheme, again faced with a lack of training, of learning, we will have wasted our time. There is also a need to find communities that fully play the game and deal with it properly to the end. This is generally the case, but we have a collective duty to convey this message.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u78	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs Bassire?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u79	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u80	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u81	Thank you for finally giving me the floor – it's a teasing, as you will have understood, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask you to excuse my colleague George Pau Langevin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, who is currently participating in a committee of inquiry. Two brief words, Minister, on the issue of territorial continuity. Very honestly, I'm not the type of person who uses symbols and words that stir up wind to coat what I think. What you're doing, while you're in office recently, why haven't the previous governments, whatever they are, done? Territorial continuity is a major issue. When we get to the stage where we need to talk about territorial funerary continuity, that is not only the transport of bodies but the accompaniment of the pain of families, you see the importance of this. I am not going to oppose the overseas countries to Corsica, but for this island, the principle of territorial continuity has been enshrined in republican principles. We have to negotiate, with each budget, a small step forward by this one. We have to put things down. You have posed the problem in terms of subsidiarity – I prefer to say so rather than talking about competences, because it covers two different things. In fact, the problem of continuity is twofold – Guadeloupe and Polynesia are the best examples – since it is a question of whether it is a matter of the regalian or the local. In concrete terms, is the territorial continuity between Paris and Pointe-à-Pitre the responsibility of the State? Is continuity between the islands and Pointe-à-Pitre akin to non-national continuity? For Polynesia, the question arises in the same way. [[Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, applauds]] Our colleague Nathalie Bassire's amendment raises an extremely important problem. Personally, I am in favour of a Marshall Youth Plan, which has been severely penalized by the reduction of aided contracts. However, it is not a question of contenting themselves with the increase in their numbers. The reduction of the share taken over by the State is problematic in the case of CECs. Further consideration should be given to ways of integrating young people. I am in favour of setting up an RSA Initiative for young people, which differs from an RSA for assistance. The market does not produce enough activities, but our young people have a lot of technical and cultural skills and take a lot of initiatives. Accompaniment through an RSA or a PEC for at least one year, during this period of health crisis, would make it possible to go much further. This is an umpteenth suggestion I make to you to try to get our countries out of their difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u82	[[Smile]] You have done well to wait, Mr Letchimy, since you have had more time to speak. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u83	I want to support our colleague Nathalie Bassire's amendment. A few years ago, a Reunion prefect spoke of "magoyle jobs" about assisted jobs. But he did not go beyond these words when we could have taken the opportunity to flatten this device in the overseas. This issue cannot be dealt with without going into depth, taking into account the eligibility criteria and considering whether the care provided corresponds to the needs of the territories. In my view, the specific needs, territory by territory, in terms of personal services, services to society, environmental services, the precise identification of the public concerned and the establishment of eligibility criteria should be defined. The solution is to modulate the CECs according not to geography in the same territory, but to the difficulties that people experience in entering the labour market. Increasing the number of CECs is interesting, but if communities and employers fail to use them, they will again be pointed out: they will be accused of not being able to make use of them, while we all know that communities are in great difficulty. And when communities are in great difficulty, they give less power to the associations that work with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u84	Please conclude, Mr. Ratenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u85	In most cases, communities co-finance community employment. A flattening is needed to redefine assisted jobs and how to use them according to the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u86	May I remind speakers that each has two minutes of time to speak. Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u87	I agree with my colleagues about the CECs. Of course, this device is not a panacea; the ideal would be a real job. Only, in our territories, the unemployment rate is higher than in hexagonal France – it is two and a half times higher, for example, in Réunion. These CECs are therefore essential for those who are far removed from employment. When they serve communities, their beneficiaries perform real public service missions. I am thinking in particular of all those involved in schools. Further reason, Minister, for the support provided to businesses through the recovery plan to be consistent with economic reality. If our businesses are not supported, the number of unemployed will increase, which will lead to an increased demand for assisted contracts. This was recalled yesterday here: there were more than 4200 additional jobseekers in one semester. After my colleagues, I will stress the situation of young people in Réunion: 42% of those under the age of 26 are neither in employment nor in training. I invite you, Minister, to look at what is being done in the field of training. There is a lot of money, but many young people are not trained. I regret once again that employment is not put in perspective with the needs and activities of tomorrow. I am thinking in particular of the ecological transition: young Réunions are not trained in these professions. And when there is a rise in the needs of this ecological transition, we will not find the necessary jobs in La Réunion and we will be told once again that we must look for them elsewhere. This is not good, more attention needs to be paid to training. [[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon applauds]] Of course, Minister, the take-over is differentiated between overseas and Hexagon. However, let us look at the situation with humility: in our territories, the rate of jobseekers is almost two and a half times higher than that of hexagonal France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u88	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u89	The subject is complex, but we will follow the Government's advice and vote against it. It should be noted that this budget represents a significant effort towards vocational integration and assistance for qualification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u90	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2208.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u91	As I was not convincing enough yesterday, I will try again this morning to defend the objective of this amendment. Ultramarine companies need access to an expanded market. For decades, however, we have neglected the interest that the hexagonal market could represent for them. Much has been done to help them export to their geographical area and trade at regional level, notably through the European Interregional Cooperation Programme INTERREG. On the other hand, the internal market for ultramarine companies – the hexagonal market – has been neglected. I hope that we will deal with this issue. It turns out that an exceptional investment fund has been set up for overseas. It is, in a way, a physical immobilization. In the same spirit, my amendment proposes to create an endowment fund that will allow ultramarine companies to access the Hexagonal and European markets. So far, nothing has really been done in this direction. I would point out that this amendment has not been discussed by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u93	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I will issue an unfavorable opinion, motivated not by the substance of the amendment, but by the means it advocates. We need to promote the access of ultramarine companies to the hexagonal market, but an endowment fund would not be enough. The INTERREG programme has worked rather well, and other business France and Bpifrance schemes can be mobilised. In addition, more than EUR 240 million is included in the recovery plan to help companies move forward in this area. Finally, the reduction in production taxes provided for in the recovery plan will give companies room for manoeuvre to strengthen their competitiveness and transform themselves to adapt to the market, including hexagonal ones. We need to identify the most relevant solutions to address this issue, and I am willing to work with Bruno Le Maire's teams and parliamentarians who wish to do so. It will also be important to understand the specific needs of different businesses, depending on whether they are in the service, industry or agriculture sectors. Without delay, I propose to raise this issue, at least for the agricultural sectors, from the Agricultural Processing Committee which will be held this afternoon with Julien Denormandie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u94	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u95	As the minister convinced me, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u96	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 2157.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u97	It proposes to create an exceptional support mechanism linked to the crisis of the Covid-19 to help the territory of Polynesia, however autonomous it may be. Rest assured, minister: from a budgetary point of view, Polynesia covers 75% of its competences. For its part, the State exercises its own – justice, customs, security, gendarmerie, police – with a budget almost similar to that of the community. Polynesia raises the tax locally and, I repeat, provides 75% of its budget. The rest is financed mainly by loans and, of course, by the State's allocations, which are important and which we vote on every year – and I thank you for sanctuarizing them by creating a revenue levy last year. That is the current situation. But we are going through an exceptional situation. Understand that Polynesians suffer a real deflagration; the world shock wave has not spared them. Having so far a very favourable financial situation, with relatively low debt, Polynesia has been able to create, on its own funds, tools to support and rescue businesses and jobs, some of which are similar to partial unemployment; I will be able to provide you with a summary table of these devices. However, we come to the limit of what can be done on equity. It is therefore an appeal amendment that I am submitting to you, Minister. Polynesia has already asked you, and you have responded to some of its requests...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u98	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u99	...but in this case, we are asking you for a special request: we must support employment during this transition period, so that we can then restart the machine. Otherwise, there'll be nothing left to restart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u100	I remind all of you that the time limit is two minutes, and that I will give two statements per amendment. For everyone to be able to defend their positions, the debate must move forward, knowing that it will not go beyond the morning. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u101	I have always found a form of injustice in considering, schematically, that the communities under section 74 of the Constitution have only to deal with. In an interesting report, the Senate refers to "the hell of section 74" and "the paradise of section 73". Together with the overseas delegation, in particular with MPs David Lorion and Philippe Dunoyer, we will work on this differentiation that the Prime Minister has invited us to study. I have no doubt: you are Polynesians, you are French, and you are brutally suffering the crisis of the covid-19 thousands of kilometres away, in a situation of complicated continuity. We must take into consideration the deflagration – to resume your term – that you suffer. When I think of Mrs. Sage, I think of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u102	[[Smile]] And when you think about Mr. Lecornu?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u103	[[New smiles]] What about Mr. Renson?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u104	I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u106	I can only agree with you, Mrs. Sage. We have decided to support the companies in Polynesia, although the Government of the Republic is no longer competent in this matter. A half billion euros was granted to French Polynesia alone, through the Business Support Fund and the State-guaranteed loan – PGE. It was not a source – as you know – but we have succeeded in establishing such devices for Polynesia and New Caledonia – and I am proud of that. National solidarity must be exercised within the Republic, whether under article 73 or article 74. Your amendment is therefore satisfied in some respects. Beyond that, while the crisis of the Covid-19 continues to plague French Polynesia, we must think about how best to adapt the support mechanisms and build the recovery plan on a territory-wide basis. True, the time is more for support than for recovery, as the virus continues to circulate. In this context, we must respect the competencies of different communities; it is the meaning of the loan of the Agence française de développement – AFD – that was granted the first time. As I have already indicated to you, we are prepared to study what is to be done tomorrow, in the light of the evolution of the crisis. When in "heaven" or "hell" of each other, since you are working on the distinction between sections 73 and 74, I invite you to look carefully at tax issues. In this regard, I refer you to the discussions that took place in the deliberative assemblies when, in 1958, one of my predecessors opened the choice between the statutes of overseas departments and territories: it is clear that the real question was that of control of taxation. I therefore invite you to deepen your reflection in all its aspects, because, beyond the relationship between the state and the territories, it is about the ability to control tax instruments – which is not a small matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u107	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u108	You're absolutely right, Minister. That's why I explained that Polynesia was tax-free. I have no doubt that autonomy is responsible, and we demonstrate this: we take on 50% of the contracts we enter into with the state. You mentioned the EMPs: they are a step forward, and we recognize that the state has been there to provide this type of support. However, the financial mechanism is not the same between investment budgets, operating budgets and cash flow requirements. I had also insisted that a specific follow-up committee be set up for the EMPs of New Caledonia and Polynesia. My message is as follows: when one can for 12 million employees who are partially unemployed, one can for 60000 additional people. The situation is truly exceptional. We have experienced serious crises in the past, and I have defended, in the Chamber, the return of the State to the financing of the territorial solidarity regime – the convention will be renewed in the near future. We take care of ourselves every day, but once again we are going through an exceptional situation. Let us be aware of the orders of magnitude: the overseas communities – those of the Pacific, but also the small territories of Saint-Martin, Saint-Barthélémy and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon – never represent 600,000 inhabitants. However, France is currently deploying devices of exceptional magnitude, because it knows that they are necessary to save the economy. Let us have the same requirement for all French people, beyond legal and statutory differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u109	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u110	I welcome the specific stimulus plan built by the Polynesian government within the framework of autonomy. Moreover, President Fricht's visit to Hexagon has made it possible to move many issues forward. We will follow the Government's advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u111	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 217 and 2174. Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u112	This is an appeal amendment relating to the appropriations of the Interdepartmental Committee on Overseas – CIOM. Recall that in October 2019, during his visit to La Réunion, the President of the Republic committed himself to maintaining the funds allocated to the CIOM. At the height of the health crisis, during confinement, while maritime transport and freight were reduced, the ultramarine sectors of agriculture, food and fisheries were able to meet local demand, avoiding a food shortage in our territories. If we really want the ultramarine territories to move towards food self-sufficiency, if we want their food to be secure, and if we want to strengthen the sectors – and therefore create employment – then we must put the means into them. The mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" granted only €43 million to the CIOM fund in 2021, while €48 million would be needed to strengthen food security and further the development of the agricultural sector. This amendment therefore proposes to draw €5 million from the Overseas Employment Programme 138 in its action 01 "Support for enterprises" and to direct them towards a new programme entitled "Indigenous development of agricultural diversification sectors".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u113	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2174.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u114	I would like to apologize for the absence of my colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe. Amendment No 2174, of which it is the first signatory, follows the same arguments as the previous one; So I won't take them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u115	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u116	The committee did not examine them. As a co-signatory to Amendment No 217, my opinion is in favour in a personal capacity. I also note that the recovery plan allocates €80 million to the diversification of agroecology in the overseas countries and territories – an interesting signal – and that funding for CIOM measures is increasing by 7.5%. In any event, we must remain vigilant about diversification budgets, which are still threatened if not at European level, at least at national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u118	I already had the opportunity to talk a little about agriculture last night; I will therefore try not to be redundant, especially since we will discuss it at length this afternoon in the context of the videoconference meeting of the Agricultural Processing Committee. CIOM funds have already seen a significant increase in 2020, from €40 million to €45 million, which is far from negligible! I do not go back to the POSEI, the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity, which I mentioned last night and which goes in the same direction. This afternoon, we will also mention the problem of increasing the number of funding tools, which sometimes makes things quite difficult when it comes to setting up a project. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u119	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 2029.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u120	The Government has already responded in part on matters relating to territorial continuity, but here I want to raise this issue for a more specific audience: parents accompanying a sick child. Today, only one of the two parents is entitled to the full support of his plane ticket; When a mother or father accompanies her child who needs to be treated in Hexagon, because the necessary care is not provided in her ultramarine territory, he often finds himself in difficulty and also needs support. Since the costs of the second companion are not covered, it is often necessary to launch a mobilization on social networks, on the radio and in all possible media to finance his transport and find accommodation near the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u122	You mention an important issue related to the presence of medical deserts in the overseas territories. If some ultramarines come to be treated in the Hexagon, it's not because they want it, but because they can't afford to do it at home, overseas. When they are not accompanied, they must encounter difficulties. Partial answers have been given: sometimes the care of a companion is granted for a given time, in a place of accommodation, but then everything stops and the attendant is delivered to himself. He must take care of himself and stay with an aunt, sister, brother or any other member of his family. As for the patient, he is deprived. This is an issue of territorial health continuity. We are not yet talking about the end of life or the funeral: we are talking about a situation caused by a medical desert. A sick person needs treatment in the Hexagon and the accompanying person is often, at least in part, delivered to himself. Favourable opinion, in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u124	This amendment is important. I would remind you that in the event of a medical evacuation, the costs of a companion are already covered. In the other cases, this problem has not been so clearly reflected in the famous working group which has made it possible to move certain lines and which we mentioned earlier when we were considering your amendment No 1963. I propose that you withdraw your amendment, because a dialogue must be established with local and regional authorities. The communal centres for social action – CCIS – and the departmental councils, which also exercise social competences, must also be mobilised, otherwise we risk being redundant. In fact, the social support of families is a competence which falls rather within the remit of the departments and, in some cases, the CASCs. I do not know what the municipality of Tampon – the one you know best – is implementing in this area, but I would not like the state to replace the communities. As much as the care of an accompanying person seems to me indispensable in the event of a medical evacuation – this is a minimum requirement, and that is what we plan – so much as it seems to me necessary, in all other cases, to study things well and to act in a coordinated manner. Otherwise, we risk seeing the devices pile up – in your territory, you know something – without creating effective leverage. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; For my part, I am committed to following this matter closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u125	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mrs Bassire?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u126	No, I'm holding it. I hear what you said, minister: we really need to work on this. But if the territorial health continuity was taken over by the State, the CCAA and the departmental councils could concentrate on the accommodation and the costs incurred by the presence of a second accompanying member. Today, the situation of some families is very complicated because only the expenses of a accompanying parent are fully covered by social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u127	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u128	The Republic on the move will follow the advice of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u129	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 448.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u130	This appeal amendment concerns the construction and maintenance of health infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u132	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u134	Disadvantaged, especially as we move forward on all these issues. In this finance bill, we spend €45 million on hospital and health issues in Wallis-et-Futuna – this measure has been expected for years. Similarly, Mrs Sage and Mr Brotherson could talk to you about the health convention between the state and French Polynesia, which we have largely renewed. Finally, how can we not mention the new CHU of Pointe-à-Pitre, which comes to respond to a real emergency? Mr Letchimy spoke yesterday about a number of hospital infrastructure in Martinique: rehabilitation work has been carried out in some hospitals, although other measures are still waiting – we will have to take decisions soon. If I want to quote the CHU of Pointe-à-Pitre – and I ask the hexagonal deputies to shut their ears – it is because it is one of the largest hospital sites in France. The health care staff had been waiting for this work for a long time. Of course, we are very late, especially because of the crisis of the covid -19, but when things progress, we must also recognize it! I therefore call for the withdrawal of this appeal amendment, making a commitment to continue to move forward – even if this is not done in one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u135	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mr. Ratenon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u136	No, Mr President, I will keep it to allow the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u137	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u138	See, minister: the question of medical territorial continuity is added to that of traditional territorial continuity, social continuity or funeral. I hear you are concerned about this subject, but be aware that catching up will take a long time. To build the Pointe-à-Pitre hospital, we had to carry out a lot of studies, and we had to wait three, four or five years. Since we are talking about Martinique, see the state of Pierre Zobda-Quitman Hospital: the work will last five to ten years. I also mentioned yesterday the Louis Domergue Hospital in Trinidad: three to five years will be needed to rebuild this hospital, which is now obsolete, and even practically unsanitary. In the meantime, we have a real problem. We're losing specialists because doctors don't want to work in these hospitals. Thus, at the highest level of specialization, medical deserts are created which require transfer of patients at the national level, particularly in hospitals specializing in cancer treatment. All this results in costs, but also pain. I really want us to discuss this, in the context of the reflection that you are going to carry out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u139	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u140	It is a bit embarrassing that whenever a member of the Government talks about health in Guadeloupe or the hospital in Pointe-à-Pitre, he specifies that the latter is the most expensive in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u141	It's the most beautiful construction site! You must be proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u142	I'm proud of it, but you say it every time! I recall that the current hospital had been built a long time ago, which is more on a seismic fault: it had to be rebuilt. This gave rise to an epic battle, which lasted twenty years. This case was therefore not resolved by the current government: the funds had been sanctified by other governments. We had to fight a lot. In addition, you forgot to highlight the efforts of the region and the department in terms of road infrastructure, necessary to access the new hospital. We welcome the efforts of all actors. Today, whenever we get equipment in the overseas areas that seems suitable or meets a need, you haveten to make it clear that it is a beautiful construction site, or that it is the most expensive hospital... Stop blaming us! Yes, it was a project that needed to be started, and we did, but we are still fighting to keep the TEP scan – tomography by positon emission – that was promised to us. We fight like this every day. Every time something is done at home, don't remember that it's the most expensive, the most expensive, the most expensive... I'm not sure that's really the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u143	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u144	Good thing you're supporting the government, Mr. Mathiasin, otherwise I'd be worried... I'll tell you things very clearly, because I don't have the tongue in my pocket.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u145	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u146	The CHU de Pointe-à-Pitre is the most beautiful hospital site in France, and you must be proud of it. To say that this is the most beautiful construction site or the most important project financially does not mean that it is the most expensive or the most expensive. Since you want to talk about money and, like any good Member of Parliament, you know the rules of financial commitment, you know that the notion of money does not exist: either the appropriations are entered, or they are not. But it turns out that it is this government and that majority, to which you belong, that finance this hospital – I say it with humility, because other governments will take very good action in the future, as well as others have taken very good action before. Moreover, the CHU de Pointe-à-Pitre is the only hospital in France paid 100% by the State, and that is very good – it is called national solidarity. It is a decision we have taken to unblock the situation. I understand the despair of our overseas fellow citizens who sometimes feel abandoned – I measure it myself when I move, and believe that I am not insensitive to it – but if we are not able to greet the good news, the things that are moving in the right direction thanks to national solidarity, then it is not surprising that people despair of any kind of public power. You're saying we need to thank the departmental council because it's building roads. I myself chaired a departmental council...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u147	There's the area too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u148	That's right. But the construction of roads is part of their competence, not that of the State. [[Ms. Cendra Motin and Ms. Maina Sage applaud]] I would like to hear everything, but I am proud to be a member of the government that decided to build this hospital and supports it at 100%. Today, it is the largest construction site in France, and it contributes to the support of the Guadeloupéan economy, particularly the public works sector. Forgive me, Mr. Mathiasin, but I'm not going to apologize for any good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u149	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2056.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u150	Every year, as part of the Overseas Mission's appropriation review, we talk about the Green Fund for Pacific Communities. I recall that the Pacific basin is probably the most affected – in any case, one of the most affected – by climate change; However, the Pacific Territories are not eligible for the Green Fund set up by COP21 in 2015 for, among others, small Pacific States. French Polynesia and New Caledonia are equally affected by climate change. This situation had led the Government to create, in 2017, a so-called "green fund equivalent" for these territories, in the form of subsidized loans and subventions for the control of works. Thanks to a parliamentary initiative, this budget line had been renewed in 2018. However, this transitional solution is no longer satisfactory in the long term: Pacific communities do not have the capacity to cope alone with the major challenge of adapting to climate change. We therefore call, together with MEPs Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, for the creation of a real green fund for these territories with budgetary support, not just a loan subsidy. This is what the Senate delegation has been advocating since 2018, as Guillaume Arnell points out: "The green fund must finally become a reality. The first version of the "green fund equivalent", originally planned for Pacific communities, with a focus on subsidized loans, is not enough. While our communities are in financial difficulty, borrowing cannot be the main lever. We call for the creation of a real green fund dedicated to adapting our territories to the risks, with a real community support budget. » Earlier, Mr.Brotherson recalled the significant impact of the economic and health crises on French Polynesia – this is also true for New Caledonia. It is not possible to grant them only subsidized loans. It is therefore necessary to maintain a genuine green fund to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u152	The committee did not consider this amendment; I will therefore give my opinion in my personal capacity, or rather, Minister, in respect of the overseas countries and territories that I am here, as you know. An interdepartmental major risk delegate has been appointed, although it is true that the covid-19 epidemic has somewhat changed its operations. I suggest, however, that we wait for the conclusions of his work and his proposals before creating this fund, which is in any case necessary – I fear in this regard that EUR 1 million is not enough. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u154	This is indeed a central subject, Mr Lagarde, which we have been talking about for many years. Last year we asked AFD to devote a €1.3 million line to project grants – not to subsidized loans – to perform little or no of the same function as the Green Fund in the Pacific Territories. Most of the requests relate to the fight against the erosion of the coast line: the rise in sea level, particularly in the Pacific Ocean, poses a serious threat to some Polynesian atolls, even in Nouméa Bay and the archipelago of the Province of New Caledonia, where the coastal line on sand banks and beaches is receding. This amount of EUR 1.3 million was entirely consumed in 2020; This is good news because it allows a number of projects to be carried out. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn because, obviously, the device is working. The question for next year, of course, is the dimensioning of the envelope to go further. In the meantime, we have managed to put in place an ad hoc mechanism for Pacific communities; will continue to be projected for the duration of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u155	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u156	As chairman of the overseas delegation, Mr Serva, you are well aware that the amount of EUR 1 million is not the amount we want. It is once again budgetary technique that should not be used as an argument against this amendment or against others. I take note of your willingness to move forward, Minister; It's a necessity. We cannot leave these territories alone in this situation – paradoxical, in the rest, since we help foreign states but do not help our own compatriots. Understand that some in New Caledonia, for example, will make them their cabbages to assert that France is "mistreating them", which is hardly desirable in the present circumstances. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of another question raised yesterday, which you were unable to answer in the time allotted to you: a loan of 28 billion Pacific francs is allowed in the context of the crisis, but you suggested during your visit that it could be partly transformed into subsidies, if only to cover the costs of indemnifying the unemployed directly linked to the crisis. Is that so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u157	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mr Lagarde?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u158	First, I let the minister answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u159	All right. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u160	I am committed to examining the health expenditures of New Caledonia, which, as you know, is one of the few territories of the Republic without covid -19. However, the quartets cost the New Caledonian government – it is a specific feature of this territory and of a few others: I salute the deputy Stéphane Claireaux for mobilizing on this issue in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. Again, therefore, I undertook to examine not the economic expenditure of the Government of New Caledonia, but its health expenditure. Accounting is under way by the Regional Directorate of Public Finance and Government Services. With regard to the difference between the Pacific States and the French territories, I share your view: that is precisely why we are seeking a solution through the budget lines I have mentioned. However, we must not weaken our efforts in favour of the other archipelagos: Vanuatu, for example, has a particular history with France and we must continue to do things there, including in a cross-cutting way. Moreover, it is an action that is part of our ambition regarding the Indo-Pacific axis. In any event, it goes without saying that we must make progress on these issues in the French communities in the Pacific – I do not forget Wallis and Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u161	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2202 and 2206. I call Mr Moetai Brotherson to support Amendment No. 2202.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u162	The inter-ministerial delegation to the equal opportunities of the French overseas and the visibility of the overseas countries fulfils a two-fold essential mission: on the one hand, to promote and value the overseas countries and territories and, on the other, to prevent the specific difficulties they encounter and to facilitate their relations with their communities of origin. It does so under difficult conditions, with too limited resources: it must draw on its operating budget – worth EUR 110000 in 2020 – to support project promoters who help prevent inequalities or promote overseas talent. It does not have a separate and autonomous budget, unlike other bodies with similar missions. The issue of equal opportunities is, however, central. The delegation could play a role in access to housing and employment, not just in monitoring discrimination in employment; It could also accompany young people born overseas in complicated procedures. More generally, it could become a real anchor for the ultramarines living in the hexagonal territory, especially the younger ones, who are known to need real support. In order to do this, it needs to be provided with an intervention budget that allows it to form partnerships, but also to play a leverage role – one could even in the long run consider the establishment of a system of scholarships or grants. The purpose of this amendment is to provide for a budget of EUR 1 million and to specify the details thereof.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u163	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2206.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u164	The committee did not consider the previous amendment tabled on the initiative of Mrs Kéclard-Mondésir. I had presented the same but it was rejected; I present it again in session. The inter-ministerial delegation for the equal opportunities of French overseas workers and the visibility of overseas workers was attached to the Prime Minister; It is now in the overseas ministry. It's a good thing because it's as close to action as possible. However, that delegation, such as an unmanned master, should not be deprived of its own means of action. It is dependent on the Overseas Ministry; Of which act. Other delegations, such as DILCRAH – the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred – have no common measure. The delegation for the equal opportunities of the French overseas would gain, in terms of efficiency and in the general interest of the ultramarines – and not in the interests of a particular body or institution – to be endowed with much greater means. In my personal capacity and for the overseas countries, I therefore advocate the adoption of these two identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u166	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u167	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u168	We have been talking for years about the necessary development of the "overseas reflex", for example in the public audiovisual sector, in society and in central administrations. The inter-ministerial delegate referred to here is also responsible for leading cross-cutting policies and, in order to do so, needs resources. I will therefore support these amendments because, as the Special Rapporteur rightly said, the interministerial delegate would otherwise find himself in the position of a captain without crew and without means of action. It has not been better placed than this interdepartmental delegate to lead the policies in question in all departments. We see every day that the margins for progress in this area are enormous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u169	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u170	The Republic Group, on the other hand, will support the Government in almost its entirety. In all frankness, these amendments completely upset the nature of the interdepartmental delegation. While it can be provided with a budget to try to change things, it is best first to examine the functions of a body before adjusting its budget. Otherwise, we would go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u171	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u172	Like the Socialist and Related Group, I support these amendments – I am talking about their principle, not the financial masses. What is the purpose of this interdepartmental delegation? Is it useless? Is she just coordinating some lobbying? Or, on the contrary, can we provide it with concrete means? It is not necessary for the Minister to provide an immediate response, but at least to consider how to give it maximum operational autonomy without, however, untiring it from the general policy of the State. Take the specific example of welcoming students. The CROUS – Regional Centre for Academic and School Works – operates in its own way. The delegation could, in conjunction with the Casodom – the Social Action Committee for the Overseas Departments in Metropolitan France – play a role as a structural association – a very important role because about 30% of ultramarine students encounter difficulties in accessing housing. By considering their accessibility only through the CROUS, they are not able to integrate all of them. In other words, real estate and contracting policies with the private sector should be pursued in order to gain access to a wealth of housing that could benefit from the delegation's administrative and financial support. If, on the other hand, the delegation did not have the means to implement a number of projects, and if it could not contract with its own line ministry, it would be ineffective and totally ineffective. I therefore call for a solution – even if it is not an immediate budgetary solution – to ensure that the 600,000 to 700000 people who need equality in practice apply to overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u173	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u174	What are the reasons, Minister, that prevent this delegation from having a budget? I would understand that the amount proposed is too large from a budgetary point of view, but on the substance, in my view, this delegation deserves specific appropriations, especially since its format has been changed this year. He is now supported by three experts in three areas: visibility, the role of ultramarines in university chairs and sport. In this regard, are the reports ready and are we going to reach lasting solutions? In any event, this delegation must be provided with an intervention budget, as is the case with DILCRAH, for example, whose funds have benefited, among other things, Polynesian associations for the defence of victims of discrimination. Perhaps the consideration of the overseas mission's appropriations was not the place to adopt that proposal, but let us consider giving that delegation the means to carry out its projects successfully.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u175	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u176	I welcome the interest of this delegation. However, let us not imply that it has no means. On the contrary, it relies on all the resources of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. We wanted this flexible organisation because it avoids high fixed costs. I thought I would move quickly on this issue, but I will go into the details: today, the delegation does not pay rents and relies heavily on my own services, without any counting – all this is done in a flexible and friendly way, to the point that some might fear the Court of Auditors' gaze in this case. In any event, like Annick Girardin, I wanted a common sense and very effective device – and, as the Special Rapporteur said, a proximity device. You propose to provide the delegation with specific resources. Why is that money more than another? Why not charge him certain costs? On the contrary, I believe that the current organization should be retained. Let us not compare with the DILCRAH – which we will come back to later on, on the occasion of amendments that matter a lot to me – because it deals with cross-cutting public policies. In this case, the delegation is responsible for providing support to the Minister. This is the second reason: unless you lack confidence in the servant before you, the interministerial nature of overseas policies, if I believe the Constitution and our institutional rules, is the responsibility of the Minister for Overseas Affairs. I naturally need help and accompaniment; This is the role of the interdepartmental delegate. However, if I have accepted the honour of the mission entrusted to me by the President of the Republic on the proposal of the Prime Minister, it is because I intend to lead the inter-ministerial dynamic myself. But I understand that lines are moving, proof that I am not completely useless – or, at least, I wish for them before you. I therefore propose that you keep the spirit of this delegation as it stands, even if we will have to adjust the various missions that we entrust to it as we move forward. I take note of Mr Letchimy's remarks on the very nature of his missions: this delegation is of course not used to accredit or manage any lobby, but to deploy public policies at the service of our fellow citizens, whose expectations are changing a lot – for every generation of men and women correspond to special needs. In the cultural field, for example, I think we can go much further. In the field of sport, things have been done, but the epidemic of covid-19 has extinguished many events and projects that will naturally have to be re-started. Dedicating an envelope to the delegation will not change much in the matter. The main subject is the relationship of the Minister of Overseas Affairs with the Ministry, with the Ministry of the Interior and the means that his General Secretariat makes available to the delegation. I therefore maintain my unfavorable opinion by explaining to you the reasons and reassuring you about the missions of the delegation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u177	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1905 and 1898, which can be presented together. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u178	Mrs Benin's two amendments are designed to strengthen the work on securing the foundations of the local direct taxation of municipalities in the overseas regions, by devoting an additional EUR 500 000 – that is Amendment No 1905 – or, at least, a report allowing progress on this subject – it is the withdrawal amendment No 1898.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u180	The committee has not voted, but in my personal capacity, I am in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u182	These amendments are satisfied by the Patient-Cazeneuve contracts adopted last night through the vote of a government amendment. In addition, this is the responsibility of the regional branches of public finance. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u183	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 2054.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u184	The transfer of appropriations provided for in this amendment is intended to extend the coverage under territorial continuity to travel which the needs of their training impose on students that the shortcomings of the system of awarding grants on social criteria render them ineligible, and therefore also to the mobility passport. Today, the full support of the flight ticket under the Mobility Passport system is only available to student fellows. However, the ceilings for eligibility for grants awarded on the basis of social criteria are not adapted to the cost of life in New Caledonia, such as MM. Dunoyer and Gomès have already pointed this out to you, so many modest households are deprived of the benefit of these scholarships. Thus, only 27% of Caledonian students meet the eligibility criteria, compared to 38% of students in metropolitan France. That gap was not acceptable, especially since 63 per cent of ultramarine students had access to it: there was therefore a specific problem in New Caledonia, where, because of the high cost of living, some students did not have access to those scholarships, whereas their families could not cover their travel costs. Since the cost of the ticket is only half the cost for non-students, the rest is often too high for modest families, who thus give up financing the training in the metropolis that their children want. The aim of this amendment is to correct this mismatch and anticipates the extension of the benefits of territorial continuity arrangements for scholarship students to certain students who, without being scholarship holders, encounter difficulties in taking charge of the travel necessary for their training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u186	In fact, Mr. President Lagarde, there is a real problem for overseas students, where some students who do not meet the eligibility criteria for scholarships, however, find it difficult to finance their studies. There is a need to establish continuity between scholarship students and those who, without being scholarship holders, come from families whose incomes are too modest to finance studies in Hexagon. I am therefore personally in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u188	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u189	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u190	I thank the Chairman of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories for his favourable opinion, and I would like to point out to the Minister that there is a specific problem with New Caledonia. When only 27 per cent of students were able to access scholarships in New Caledonia, compared with 63 per cent in the rest of the overseas territories, that meant that the specific nature of that territory was not taken into account, preventing too many students from a territory already facing serious political difficulties, whether they were of European or Melanesian origin, from continuing their studies. That is why Messrs. Dunoyer and Gomès asked me to maintain this amendment. They hope, minister, that you can solve the problem. There are two solutions: either the eligibility criteria are adapted to New Caledonia's specificities, or the scheme is extended to all students, whether scholarship holders or not, in the overseas territories and departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u191	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u192	We will follow the advice of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u193	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 2155.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u194	This is the famous amendment on internal territorial continuity that I would have liked to see discussed with the other amendments on the same subject. More specifically, it deals with the case of high school students in French Polynesia. For this reason, this is a shared competence, Minister, education funding the trips these young people make to school – sometimes several hours of flight. The aim of this amendment is to extend the benefit of this scheme to the trips which pupils in French Polynesia must carry out in the framework of the vocational courses which they are obliged to follow during their school year. For example, students taking agricultural training in the Gambier Archipelago, where you came last year to attend the Congress of Mayors in Rikitea, have to spend 800 euros to go to Papeete to follow their internships, which is far too expensive for them. Unfortunately, they are not eligible for a scheme that we extended three years ago to professional internships in the law on programming for real equality overseas. I ask you to pay attention to this when you adapt the decree on continuity, which you could at least extend to this specific case of internal continuity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u196	The committee did not consider this amendment. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u197	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2194 and 2200. I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet to support Amendment No. 2194.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u198	This amendment will allow me to take on another role in this budgetary debate... The law of 27 December 2018, whose application we recently assessed, aims to solve the absolutely crucial problem of overseas land control in the event of individual succession, these indivisions completely paralyzing until the planning of the cities. This law, passed unanimously and which in a way places the indivisors a threat intended to unlock situations, struggles to give full effect because of the reluctance it arouses, especially among notaries, as the keeper of seals has pointed out recently. We may regret it, but it is a reality that must be taken into account. These successions pose extremely complex problems, the resolution of which is very costly – requiring, for example, the intervention of genealogists. The aim of this amendment is therefore to give local authorities the possibility of accompanying notaries in solving these estate problems, so as to unblock projects which are now at a standstill for lack of sufficient land control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u199	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u200	You have seen, Mr Minister, that we have debated the overseas budget in a very peaceful and constructive way and that we have done nothing so far! After refusing the ten proposals I have already made to you, at least accept this amendment! It is up to you to see, but it would be paradoxical if you were to speak against – and I am not even talking about the chairman of the delegation to the Overseas, Guadeloupe and a member of the majority! – whereas the law facilitating the exit of the individual estate was desired by the President of the Republic: if he had not allowed the deputies of the Republic on the move to present this text within the framework of their parliamentary niche, we would never have been able to vote on it, I have always said so. The Minister of Justice partially resolved the problem by making an implementing decree that allowed progress to be made on the issue of the advertising of notarial acts, whether digital or non-digital, which required clarification. Mr. Éric Dupond-Moretti, keeper of seals, has taken extremely important initiatives, but it remains complicated to accompany families who must resort to genealogists or other experts – because all this has a cost. What we are proposing is that an accompanying fund can be requested as part of development programmes launched by a municipality, an EPCI or any other local authority. In order not to unbalance this budget, we propose that the symbolic sum of €500,000 be allocated to this fund to enable municipalities and communities to unblock these situations. Let me remind you of a figure: almost 50% of the private land ownership of Martinique, Guadeloupe and La Réunion is in individual, so lost for development projects. If we want to unblock the situation, we need to go much further. It would be paradoxical not to vote on these amendments after unanimously adopting this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u202	I am pleased that Members of the majority are proposing such an amendment. It can be seen that the law facilitating the exit of the estate individual is difficult to apply on the ground because of blockages on the part of notaries. That is why the keeper of the seals, whom I met, made the decree that you mentioned, Mr Letchimy, but at some point it is necessary to make things easier. Since all the elected representatives of the overseas countries and territories, both the majority and the minority, seem willing to express their support for this amendment, as I myself am under the delegation and in my personal capacity, since the committee has not considered this amendment, it should reach consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u204	I feel a hint of ingratitude will weigh on my shoulders! You are right, Mr Letchimy, to stress the consensual and peaceful nature of our discussions. It must be said that I had asked my cabinet to work with all the political groups ahead of the review of this mission. To a fight of amendments between political groups, with victors and vanquishes, I prefer to consult with each other, either on the basis of my travels or in the framework of preparatory work which allows us to reach consensus. Thus our proposals for territorial continuity or for Patient-Cazeneuve contracts are the result of many months of joint work. These collective victories reflect a positive state of mind in our way of working. Another of these collective victories is the law that now bears your name and aims, to put it as simply as possible, to facilitate access to land in the overseas territories. Mr.Vuilletet has also made a significant contribution to this progress, at least in connection with the Senate. If it is not spectacular enough to make the headline of the twenty-hour newspaper, it is spectacular in terms of the execution of the construction projects. One cannot claim to solve housing problems – we have referred at length to the single budget line, the LBU this night – without removing all the obstacles to construction and access to land, particularly private land, is one of the most important. This is what makes this work common to members of both the majority and the minority – I prefer this term to that of opposition – rather remarkable. Secondly, if I understood the content of these amendments correctly, thanks to a fund in advance, the state would allow the communities to give money to the notaries, the time of the recomposition of land intended to find the various heirs and successors. Is it public money to compensate notaries on the basis of any additional costs that have not been fully quantified? You will see that I separate this question of principle from the excellent work done on the substance of this case – it seems to me consistent not to link the two. Some might indeed argue, and that's a bit of what the seal keeper has meant to you, that it could be done in a different way. You yourself recalled the existence of the decree which will soon produce its effects and, as the other would say, simplify the manoeuvre. Others might argue that such a mechanism would create a flow of transactions that will not eventually be unlocked and that notaries will be able, certainly not in the immediate future, to pay properly on future transactions: successions will eventually be settled and land transactions will be carried out. I do not hide from you that I am very reserved – not on your intention, that I find very fair, good – because if we begin to release public money, that of the state and the territorial authorities, to pay the notaries for a job for which they can be paid at a later date – forgive me for being so schematic, and I would not like the notaries who listen to us to detect any contempt in my remarks, because I have the greatest respect for this eminently important function in the Republic – I am not sure that we are doing a good job of managing public funds. This is the only reason – the only one, I insist – that motivates my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u205	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u206	I appreciate your arguments, minister, and I will withdraw my amendment. The question remains: when it comes to very poor quality land because it has sometimes been abandoned for decades, the notion of remuneration, for the notary, is somewhat random. Above all, there is a legal risk because estates are indeed the most complex. It will therefore have to be dealt with in one way or another, and I am not sure that the way in which we have dealt with the subject is the most effective. But we trust you, as well as the chancery, to find other accompanying measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u207	Are you withdrawing yours, Mr. Letchimy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u208	Minister, my speech is about what led you to give an unfavorable opinion, and I hope you will come back to your decision. There must be no trial of intent on the part of notaries. I'm pretty strict when I talk about law enforcement. For both structural and technical reasons, researching generations to settle a succession is not an easy task. Secondly, this research is made very complicated by the origin of the land: one is always confronted with a problem of title to property. Finally, genealogical research, which sometimes results in the designation of dozens of heirs, is a very difficult task. That is why we believe that we should not pay so much as accompany notaries. If this amendment were to be voted on, we would certainly have time, together with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Overseas Affairs and the communities concerned, to determine where that money will be placed and exactly what it will be allocated to. It is a political decision that I ask you to take to unblock the situation and then we can set up a team to define in the smallest detail the way in which the fund is used in advance. Otherwise, we would miss the opportunity to create a dynamic that would allow land to be released overseas. But this opportunity will not come to you several times. I therefore ask you, Minister, to reconsider your decision and, relying on your constructive spirit, to take a political position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u209	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u210	The organisation of land in Polynesia is specific and certain situations are inextricable, so I understand that these amendments have been tabled. I will give you the example of Corsica, which has created a public interest group for the reconstruction of property titles, the GIRTEC. For our part, in Polynesia, we have a directorate of land affairs, we have created an office of lawyers – a specificity in our Republic, such an office does not exist anywhere else. We find this problem all over the world where this type of structure is necessary. The fact that we voted last year on an amendment on territorial continuity in funeral matters allowed us not to spend money but, through meetings, to move forward on the substance, so that tomorrow the Government will be able to issue a decree amending several criteria so that the scheme is better adapted. I will therefore vote for this amendment because we must make this reform a reality. Believe me, it took fifteen years to reach Polynesia: we now have a land court, we have dedicated resources. This week I asked the Minister of Justice about this. It is a long work and it is not because we are going to vote on it today that we will achieve a result in the coming month. I ask you, minister, to think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u211	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u212	Our views differ, Mrs Sage, on the budgetary architecture. You are a Member of Parliament, I am a Minister... But as long as territorial continuity is historically part of the overseas budget, as much as it is not the case of financial accompaniment of notaries. I understand your intentions, but if the amendment were to be voted on, it would be up to the overseas budget to pay for it. Mr Letchimy, you asked me to take a political position – which speaks to me. I would prefer you to withdraw your amendment; Indeed, I do not want it to be rejected because I do not dispute the substance of it. It would be better to quickly quantify the extra costs and launch an initiative on tariffs with Mr Vuilletet, you and all parliamentarians who wish to be in it. One can very well imagine a tariff evolution of the notarial grid according to the specific cases known. Differentiation is possible from this point of view. There is also a need to review the issue of transfer rights for consideration, the DMTOs, in the Overseas Territories. I prefer, therefore, to work in this direction. And let us be consistent to the end: let us involve notaries, as it is difficult to move forward, from a professional point of view, on this type of subject. It is better to try to understand how all this works than to begin to commit the state money. Let us think of our successors when, in three or four years' time, we have made good progress and we will have to withdraw this expenditure from the budget because we will wonder why public money is spent on accompaniment to notaries and for how much longer. As a follow-up to your inquiry, which is only part of the continuity of your collective work, I take before you the political commitment to work with the keeper of seals, while organizing a small concertation not to give the impression that prices are being increased too quickly, in the idea that a particular job must correspond to a particular remuneration – which is not necessarily provided by the overseas ministry for which I have the responsibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u213	Do you withdraw your amendment, Mr Letchimy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u214	Yes. I fully agree with the approach you are proposing, minister. I think that's the right method. And if these identical amendments were not just appeal amendments, because we hoped they would be voted on, your arguments seem to me to be quite consistent. So, if you could set up this little think tank, I would of course be happy to take part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u215	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2203.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u216	We have an issue with the Overseas Agency for Mobility, LADOM. The fact that the Agency has only 127 full-time equivalents worked – ETPT – for several years has led to malfunctions. For example, with regard to the Guadeloupe branch, at least four posts are occupied by temporary staff, whereas they should be occupied by persons engaged on an indeterminate contract. Notwithstanding the illegality of this situation, as I said, there is a clear organizational dysfunction, which is also found on the air in Orléans. I am not the one who says it, but the people on the spot, in Guadeloupe, and also the Director-General of the Agency himself. But you know the importance of LADOM, Minister. You yourself are working to get our forces out, but you also want to bring them back, and we are also working on it, in Martinique, Guadeloupe, and we are very happy with it. However, the situation of our students, of our job seekers, of those who have to leave for the hexagon, should not come back to find themselves in a deteriorated situation. As is the case, we ask you to consider this amendment kindly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u218	I do not think that the solution to the problem that you raise should involve an increase in the number of PTSDs. The use of interim workers has worked quite well, however, and has made it possible to make up for a lot of delays. And if we tell ourselves the truth, because you know this institution well, the challenge for LADOM is also to move forward in partnerships with Pôle emploi and connect with other operators of the state to avoid redundancy. So I don't think it's by increasing the operating costs of the public establishment that we will solve the problems that will arise. The answer seems to me to have to be more structural and I have to find time to devote myself to it. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise I'll give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u219	Do you withdraw your amendment, Mr. Special Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u220	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u221	On the whole of the overseas mission's appropriations, I am seized by the IDU group and independents of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1199.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u222	In 2018, together with our colleagues Laurence Vanceunebrock and Gabriel Serville, we provided the overseas delegation with an information report on the fight against anti-LGBT discrimination – lesbian, gay, bi, trans – in the overseas. I thank President Serva for having commissioned this report, which has lifted the taboo of discrimination against LGBT people in ultramarine territories and raised a lot of hope. A couple of weeks ago, Elisabeth Moreno presented a national plan to combat discrimination, which includes a component for the overseas sector, which we can only welcome. However, it is noted that the appropriations for Action 04 of Action 123 "Overseas Living Conditions", which aims to support actions to combat discrimination by non-profit actors, have not been increased by 2021. This leaves me afraid of a lack of budgetary anticipation because the great merit of the plan launched by Elisabeth Moreno is to entrust responsibilities and the facilitation of certain provisions to other ministries. Our report stressed that the fabric of associations was very fragile and needed both to be consolidated and accompanied in order to be able to carry out its actions. While the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred, DILCRAH, assists these associations very regularly, this is not the case with the Overseas Ministry. The containment measures taken in certain ultramarine territories – I am thinking of Martinique – over-explain the risk of physical and psychological violence within their families. That is why it is essential for the Government to ensure that these local associations have all the necessary means to carry out their work, and now more than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u224	It seems to me, dear colleague, that you have just defended your amendment No 1187, but I fully agree with you. You recalled the work we did in the overseas delegation with Laurence Vanceunebrock, Gabriel Serville and yourself. However, this work has had concrete follow-up since, in Guadeloupe, a listening line has been set up which has aroused a certain echo, a certain interest, especially in this period of confinement where promiscuity with the family can lead to psychological or even physical brutality. Such a listening line also exists in Guyana. It would be useful to set up one in Martinique, the island's deputies would be sensitive to it. I am therefore very much in favour of this amendment and of your amendment No 1199.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u226	You have been right, Mr President, to introduce two separate amendments because, on the issues they deal with, we do not start from the same point. One, Amendment No. 1199, deals with gender equality, discrimination against women and violence against women; Amendment No 1187 on violence against homosexuals, homophobia and the accompaniment of young people in their sexuality. If you will allow me, Mr President, I shall speak on these two amendments in the same speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u227	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u228	On violence against women, a major financial effort has been included in the overseas budget since 2017, with 1 million euros. I would also like to make available to Members the list of associations involved in these matters, which are doing a remarkable job. If, Mr Gérard, you mentioned from the outset the fight against anti-LGBT hatred, it is because that is where there are the most weaknesses. First of all, we cannot speak of these arrangements in the "overseas" territories, but we must now speak on a case-by-case basis because, as Mr Serva has said, initiatives have been taken, in Guadeloupe, for example, with the listening line, and this is progressing well, while in Guyana there is a very significant delay in the association network, particularly in the fight against homophobia. The answer must therefore be defined territory by territory, given the sometimes very different cultural and social aspects, and even an omerta that still exists – we must know how to name things clearly, otherwise there will never be emancipation or protection for our fellow citizens who want to be free and protected to live their homosexuality or bisexuality. The first thing, and we are working on it with Minister Elizabeth Moreno, is to go back through the regal channels. Even before voluntary support, we must carry out important work to raise awareness among prosecutors' offices and judicial police officers. Too many verbal and physical violence, are now being ignored: young men and women find it difficult to file complaints in overseas police stations or gendarmerie after being victims of homophobic violence. It is a dramatic, scandalous, dreadful delay, which must mobilize us all and on which the Minister of the Interior, the keeper of the seals, and I myself have formulated instructions. We will do so again, including through future ministerial travel, so that the judicial authority can listen. Such violence is sometimes the subject – to say the diplomatically – of a very worrying cultural or global minority. You are right to say that we also have an important duty to accompany the associative structures in these territories. I hope that in French Guiana the catch-up will now be achieved very quickly. So far, budgetary choices have instead been to bring the issue of gender equality through the budget of the Overseas Ministry and the fight against anti-LGBT discrimination by the DILCRAH budget. I propose that you withdraw these amendments, but not to postpone action to a distant future: on the contrary, in connection with the DILCRAH, which is particularly mobilized on these subjects, I want us to start working very quickly on a territorial strategy. The questions arise differently depending on the extent of a territory – which we compare, for example, Guyana to smaller territories. Similarly, the more the weight of religion or custom is felt, the more difficult it is to free speech. It therefore requires a strategy on a case-by-case basis, as I mentioned in New Caledonia, where living homosexuality in tribes is sometimes difficult and can even lead to violent situations. There is a need to move forward and, to do so, to develop numerical indicators. One of the problems is that it is the associations established in the hexagon that respond to calls for projects: while this is good news in that they often have the necessary know-how and engineering, overseas work nevertheless has specific features that require particular support. We do not have to blush on what has been done since 2017, and even before, and we observe movements, especially on the cultural ground, but we will now approach the last straight line, the last kilometer, with a necessary catch-up for certain territories, which obviously is not a question of stigmatizing. That, Mr President, is a very comprehensive answer to your two amendments. Once again, I welcome your commitment and determination, qualities that must be demonstrated in addressing these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u229	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u230	I have reversed the order of my two amendments, beginning by defending the one on anti-LGBT discrimination, Amendment No 1187. Mr Minister, there is an urgent need for an urgent call for territorial projects, as you have just said, and I am counting heavily on you to launch it and to make it known that you can accompany the associations taking into account the specificities of the overseas. I have no doubt about Mrs Moreno's commitment to combating anti-LGBT discrimination and taking into account the specific nature of ultramarine territories, but this issue must be addressed by your department. I will withdraw Amendment No 1187, in view of your commitment to organise a review and regular points on the progress of support for associations. As for Amendment No 1199, it is also a matter of real urgency, about which I tried to alert Mrs Moreno two days ago when she examined the appropriations for the mission under her responsibility. The budget of the Ministry of Women's Rights is increasing by 40 per cent, a strong gesture that positions this theme as the cause of the quinquennium. However, in the overseas countries, the corresponding budget fell by 40 per cent. Ms Schiappa announced last year an additional €800,000 for the fight against violence against women in the ultramarine territories; In reality, the budget allocated to this policy fell by €800,000 in 2020 and will fall by just over €165,000 in 2021. To take an example that Mr Letchimy is familiar with, the SOS Kriz association in Martinique received 1200 calls during the confinement period, while the 3919 received only 111 calls from all the ultramarine territories. This shows that the response must be local and carried out by the ultramarine associations, and that means must be put in place, under the penalty of abandoning women victims of violence in the overseas territories. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u231	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 1877.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u232	I beg your pardon, Josette Manin, who cannot be present today. His amendment is an appeal amendment which I believe is essential in order to make clear what I said at the beginning. The scope of the Overseas Department should indeed be changed in depth, in order to ensure, for the department as for us, locally, a budgetary readability on a project policy. For the moment, you are managing 10% of an overall budget and the example chosen by Josette Manin is very clear in this respect. The attractiveness of Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana or La Réunion must be part of a reflection, in a dynamic and in projects. Ms Manin proposed that the State and local authorities should set up a Caribbean school for firefighters and civil security occupations. It is not a question, with this major proposal, of creating a school to create a school! Contrary to the misconception that the Caribbean would consist of sparsely populated islands, the Caribbean basin has 40 million inhabitants. It is also two hours from Central America, two hours from Brazil and two thirty or three hours from the United States. Creating a school of this nature locally means giving Martinique a pole of attractiveness and at the same time responding to a fundamental need for the continuous training of rescue and fire-fighting forces for the West Indies-Guyanese, in cooperation with these islands. Ms Manin therefore proposed that funds should be allocated to start programming this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u234	You are calling on the Government on an important topic: overseas France and its geopolitical place on the three oceans. There is a particular interest in the Indo-Pacific strategy – we understand it, for the Indian Ocean and the Mozambique Canal – but the geopolitical position of the overseas in the Atlantic, with the Caribbean and North and South America, has often been neglected. This appeal amendment, which deals with the subject in a small way – the firemen – poses the problem of France's geopolitical place in the Caribbean. I am in favour of this in my personal capacity, as the committee has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u235	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u236	Humility requires us to say, Mr. Serva, that our predecessors have, fortunately, already advanced some great cooperation within the Caribbean, in particular for the prevention of natural risks, which has given rise to agreements that are now operational, even if they may deserve to be reviewed or updated. I don't want anyone who listens to us to think that we're leaving nothing. If I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn, I do not mind the proposal, which should be formulated by the SDIS, the departmental fire and rescue services of Martinique and Guadeloupe – because I am convinced that this will only work if it comes from the ground, and the local elected representatives chair the SDIS and participate in their administration. I, for my part, can give instructions to the prefects to accompany this request, which must aim to prefigure a training and support entity that is rather flexible and soft – because it seems to me that a hard structure will not work. The State may, without devoting any new appropriations, give instructions to this effect to the National High School of Fire Officers, which is the structure responsible for validating the trainings. In fact, it is not only a question of training, but also of issuing approvals that are of value, especially when it comes to civil security – in the event of a disaster, it is better to be rescued by people recognized by the public authorities as able to do so! If the SIDS of the two territories, and perhaps also those of Saint-Martin, Saint-Barthélemy and, why not, French Guiana, want to make progress on a regional cooperation offer in this area, I would be in favour of the State accompanying this project. However, it is better to provide, rather than funds, human support and engineering, particularly with the services of the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate-General for Civil Security and, above all, the National Higher School of Firefighters Officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u237	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u238	Minister, you have just made a statement of vital importance. Personally, I am campaigning for the creation of a biodiversity university somewhere in Guyana, Martinique or Guadeloupe, as well as for the creation of a university of the sea, certainly on the Polynesia side. We are too reductive when it comes to the regal functions and university training that can contribute to the attractiveness of the overseas, which justifies both BUMIDOM and LADOM as well as the aspiration of young people from these territories to the hexagon. I therefore take note of your comments. I would like Mrs Manin to send you a letter to complete her amendment – which I will withdraw – so that you can seize the structures that could accompany the implementation of such an operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u239	I put to the vote the credits of the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u240	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 89 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 87 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u241	We are continuing our discussion with several amendments to the additional article after Rule 55. I have before me two amendments, Nos 2209 and 2223, which can be discussed jointly. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2209.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u242	Much of the satisfaction of the Government with respect to the territorial continuity of funerals is expressed. I am very pleased with this significant progress, which signals the great goodwill of the Overseas Ministry. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u243	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2223 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u244	[[Smile]] I think I can say that he is defended: I have presented him in several episodes for at least three hours; No surprise effect, then! It is not so much an amendment by the Government as the result of collective work, carried out upstream with all the political groups of the Assembly, the delegation to the overseas countries and working groups set up by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u246	[[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] If it is for legal reasons for me to defend it before you, this amendment is in fact Parliament's. The measure he proposes represents a step forward for all of us, on a subject which unfortunately causes pain and pain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u248	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u249	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u250	I thank you for this amendment, Mr Minister, and I reiterate my request in committee that this aid be granted exceptionally in the form of an advance from the State, as opposed to other aid, for which it is often necessary to advance the money before it is repaid. In these emergency situations, families often find it difficult to pay for their transport costs. We would like the decree to provide for the direct payment of these costs. In any event, we will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u251	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u252	I also support this amendment, which makes it possible to alleviate a little the pain of the families. This mechanism should be extended from one overseas department to another. In fact, the amendment provides that it applies between overseas and hexagon, but there is no provision for a transport which should take place, for example, between Réunion and Guyana, although such cases are frequent. I had tabled a sub-amendment to that effect, but unfortunately it was retold. Would the Government be prepared to improve the amendment by specifying that travel between overseas departments is also involved?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u253	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u254	If I am allowed to amend the amendment orally, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u255	I was going to invite you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u256	[[Laughs]] [[Smile]] ...– I felt good about it! – we will be able to work in co-construction to the end and I will have been magnanimous to the banks of La France unsuspecting – I hope you will remember it, Mr.Ratenon! I propose that the amendment be corrected by adding, after the words: "assistance for territorial continuity shall be granted to the persons mentioned in the first and second paragraphs of Article L. 1803-2 and regularly established in the territory", the words: "or resident in one of the communities mentioned in Article L. 1803-2 other than that in which the funeral takes place. » [[Applause on all benches]] The legal framework will thus include links between the overseas departments. Even if only one family were concerned, we would have done at least this work of republican brotherhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u257	We come to a series of amendments calling for reports to be submitted to Parliament. Amendment No 1908 by Mrs Justine Benin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u258	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u260	The amendment was satisfied: request for withdrawal or unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u261	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2184.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u262	Minister, you have repeatedly pointed out that the funds allocated to housing are not being used. We are asking for a report to shed light on the partial use of the single budget line and its cost. This will enable us to reflect on the strengthening of the resorption of unhealthy habitats – also mentioned by my colleague Nathalie Bassire – and the construction of housing while meeting the accessibility needs of ageing, disabled and dependent people in the overseas regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u264	Between the Court of Auditors' report, the annual performance report of the Overseas Mission and the PLOM's report, the overseas accommodation plan, we have sufficient information to be built on the situation. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u266	It is unfavorable, but not on the content of the amendment itself. We have talked a lot about this since yesterday and, let us be honest, the Court of Auditors' recent report already gives a lot of information; I am therefore not sure that a new report would bring much. Our main objective today must be to move forward, from an operational point of view, in simplification. I invite you to withdraw the amendment, but I may be in favour of it next year if we have made progress in access to land and engineering – I am not going to go back to everything we said last night.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u267	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u268	I take note of your proposal, Minister. See you next year! I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u269	Amendment No 1496 by Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u270	I will be a little longer than you, Mr Ratenon, because this amendment raises an important question: support for the deployment of renewable energies overseas. Minister, I would like to alert the Government that support for PV in overseas countries and territories would be retroactively challenged by the Ministry of Environmental Transition. Approximately 500 jobs and 50 million credits would be threatened. I know that this is not directly dependent on your ministry, but on the government to which you belong. We therefore expect clarification on support for renewable energies and photovoltaics by 2030. I would also like to invite you to take the utmost care on this subject, which requires a minimum of consultation with the ultramarine representatives before leaking information in the press about a possible challenge to photovoltaic support devices, which are structuring for the overseas countries with a view to energy autonomy by 2030. The signal sent today is not the right one. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u272	I am against the request for a report to the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate, because the documents on the multiannual energy programming will provide us with the information that is expected. However, I share Mr Serva's concern. When I was young, I served as Secretary of State to the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and I believe a lot in photovoltaics. We have moved the lines on this subject. It would be incomprehensible if we could not diversify our electric mix in areas where there is no shortage of sun. We can do this today, especially in La Réunion, your department, thanks to hydropower, but we are lagging behind in photovoltaics. I will therefore remain vigilant on this subject, which I pledge to defend at the inter-ministerial level. In any event, I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u273	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u274	[[Smile]] You have aged a lot since you held the post of Secretary of State to the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition: your reasonings are now full of the greatest wisdom, which I am delighted about! However, the role of Parliament is to monitor the Government's actions and to preside over the drafting of its own reports and the holding of its own commissions of inquiry. As a matter of principle, we are therefore opposed to all the amendments that require reports to the Government. Undoubtedly, we will support the same position next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u275	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 1904.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u276	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u277	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 1909.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u278	Mrs Benin's amendment also calls for a report to be submitted. Let me go back to the previous intervention: when Parliament asks the Government for a report, it is that it is not in a position to obtain the answers to its questions alone. Getting through the law makes it possible to compel the Government to respect a certain period of time in the submission of a report. That is why, in my view, we must refrain from judging without interest all the reports requested from the Government. In this case, the report requested by Mrs Benin and several of our colleagues should appear to us all necessary, and also to you, Mr.Minister: it concerns the arrangements for the collection of the property tax on unbuilt properties which the NFB, since 2019, is liable to the local authorities of Guyana, who fail to collect the tax. Given your experience, could you, minister, explain to us the reasons for this blockage and respond to the call made with this amendment? The requests for reports are also aimed at raising the awareness of the Government on serious issues... Today, a tax that should be collected legally is not. There may be an explanation, but the Caribbean MPs are worried and waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u280	Favourable opinion in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u282	I invite you to withdraw the amendment, which is satisfied. For the past year, the NFB has been paying the tax you mentioned. So the problem is solved. As for the requests for reports, I shall soon be sitting in another chamber, but I agree with Mr Vuilletet's comments. The government departments that produce the reports are the same as those that answer the written questions of parliamentarians. Do not hesitate to ask me if any of your questions remain unanswered. According to the established formula, the members of the Government are at the disposal of the Parliament. You don't have to wait for the finance bill to question us. In my experience, I understood that reporting requests were primarily a means of circumventing section 40 of the Constitution. I must have been wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u283	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u284	You are right, minister, it is sometimes a question of circumventing section 40, but this is not the case here. The amendment does not propose any additional burden. While the NFB now pays the tax, it is not paid to the communities. The elected representatives of the Territories concerned do not understand why. However, I have heard your invitation to question your services directly, which I will pass on to Mrs Benin so that the situation can be resolved. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u285	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support Amendment No. 2063.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u286	The report by Senator Georges Patient and our colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve, entitled "Supporting the municipalities of the overseas departments and regions: for accompaniment in responsibility", highlighted dysfunctions in some regional public finance directorates – DRFiP – of the overseas departments and regions – DROM. There is, in fact, an inconsistent distribution of permanent staff assigned to cadastral missions among the ultramarine DRFiPs. As often happens, Guyana and Mayotte are the most disadvantaged, and this time Guyana more than Mayotte. The lack of attractiveness of assignments results in management difficulties, which the report proposes to remedy in its recommendation No. 16, in particular by promoting the recruitment of local staff. It is proposed that, in order to compensate for the lack of attractiveness of assignments in Guyana and Mayotte, DGFiP – Directorate-General for Public Finance – should "work to diversify its recruitment channels, either by hiring local contract staff with a good academic level, or by seconding certain territorial officials already active in those territories, or by organising local recruitment without competition of category C officials, with the aim of rapidly advancing them in skills and hierarchy through continuous training and internal promotion. » These proposals are interesting avenues. DRFiP's staffing deficit deserves further investigation in order to improve and strengthen these government services. That is the subject of the amendment that I propose to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u288	The question that you are addressing, Mrs Ali, is fundamental for the overseas countries, since it concerns the return of their forces, after having trained in the metropolis thanks to LADOM, to occupy positions of responsibility in their original territory. These positions are all too often occupied today by people I will call "exogenous" – the fact is recognized at the highest level of the state. It is true that the State expresses its will to improve matters in this area, but it must be able to do so in practice and, if I dare say so, fairly. For example, last year, Minister, we voted on an amendment to the National Local Assignment Competitions. But for the measure to be implemented, an implementing decree is still not published. This is not your responsibility, and it has been pointed out to the competent minister, but I would like this decree to appear as soon as possible, in order to make it easier for high-value posts to be filled by ultramarines. At the symbolic level, this would allow them to realize that they too can hold important positions, whereas this is currently not the case. Minister, the return of forces is therefore an essential subject; And you're very sensitive to it. In order for such positions to be occupied by ultramarines in the public but also in the private sector, devices such as the Frameworks Avenir programme – which has worked very well in New Caledonia – deserve to be generalized. If we want to bring the living forces of each of the Overseas Territories back to the highest levels of the civil service and the private sector, we must therefore dare and be proactive. I will give a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u290	Unfavorable notice or request for withdrawal, because it is not a report that will make a difference. I am sorry, Mr Special Rapporteur, but I did not understand Mrs Ramlata Ali's amendment in the same way as you did. His request for a report raises a general problem of attractiveness and is not limited to ultramarines. It is not so much a question of whether there are Mahorese working in Category A or A+ positions within the Mayotte DRFiP. Indeed, the problem is more broadly that sometimes there is simply no one to occupy these positions, nor "hexagonal," if that's how you qualified them, nor Mahorais. The problem is general, and the Member knows something about it; I also welcome his commitment in this area. This is the main issue: we must have good servants of the state, so people who can do public service, regardless of their origin. A report is not necessary because the Ministry of Public Accounts, within the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, is fully mobilized on this subject. A right of priority to return has been created for the first time – this administration is the first to have done so. When a candidate for Category A or A+ posts comes to serve in an overseas territory, he or she is often concerned about the fate of his or her administration when he or she wishes to return to the hexagon, for reasons that may be, for example, family, or personal. The Directorate-General for Public Finance has dealt with this issue and proposals are now being made to the persons concerned. The results of these measures will have to be evaluated and what can be done for other professions, as this can be even more difficult in the area of justice, where, under the independence of the judiciary, career development is not fully linked to government decisions. The issue will need to be thoroughly examined, body by body, direction by direction. In any case, with regard to the prefectural corps, the support administration of the Ministries of the Interior and Overseas and the Regional Directorates of Public Finance, the existing arrangements are beginning to bear fruit. We must continue to do so; national education, among other things, is working on it. As for the accompanying of local skills to lead them to occupy local positions, a few administrations have shown the example. I would like to pay tribute to what has been done by the Directorate-General of the National Police, which has enabled good Republican promotions and real careers in every territory. The problem, and I know that I have looked closely at the issue, is that young people who have taken up important responsibilities in the state civil service do not always want to return to their home territories. This is a cross-cutting issue, which is not unique to the public service and to which we must find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u291	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2185.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u292	With this amendment, we call for a report on the current workforce and the need for additional employment in the overseas civil service. Indeed, the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas ensures that officials from overseas countries benefit from additional points by taking into account the CIMMs – centres of material and moral interests. However, many ultramarines, due to lack of available posts, are forced to leave or cannot return to their territory. For example, in La Réunion, some municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants, such as Le Tampon, which has more than 80000 inhabitants, and Saint-Benoît, which has nearly 40,000 inhabitants, still do not have a police station, whereas the law of 21 January 1995 on guidance and planning on security requires it. Yet, more than ever, the needs are real, since the public workforce appears insufficient to cope with the health, economic and social consequences of the covid-19. Answering it would create jobs. The report requested is therefore intended to establish the cost of these job creations for public finances. Such a state of affairs would make it possible to establish mechanisms that would give priority to the mutations of the ultramarines, in order to ensure their effective return to the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u294	I regularly work on the return of the living forces. This is an opportunity for me to say that one of the difficulties we face, whether in the public or in the private sector, in the main branches of the state or in large companies, lies in the lack of transparency regarding the availability of posts. Indeed, some talented ultramarines, scattered around the globe, are sometimes not informed of the opening of a post, because of opacity or favouritism practices that take place in major ministries; they must be identified and thoroughly examined. We therefore call for more transparency. This is also the case in the private sector: the Overseas Ministry has financed associations that carry out extraordinary work, Alé Vini in Guadeloupe and Alé Viré in Martinique. We are working with them, and there is a real desire for innovation at national level to create a cooperation platform, including Pôle Emploi. We are gradually moving forward on this, and we will succeed. For my part, I am in favour of any attempt to identify difficulties and work out truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u296	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u297	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u298	For being a joint commissioner in national education, I can talk about the movement of personnel to overseas. On a case-by-case basis, we in the Joint Committees examined the situation of each colleague in order to see what was possible for some of them, especially those who had been separated for many years and could benefit from the reconciliation of spouses. It was then possible to have certain positions opened to deal with very complex personal situations. As the Government has removed these commissions, we no longer have access to the data of our colleagues. However, contrary to what has been said, they were not used to defend only unionized persons; the majority union was studying all the files, in full transparency. We therefore strongly regret the disappearance of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u299	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2199.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u300	It aims to request the submission of a report on the situation of water systems in the overseas countries and territories. The aim would be to assess past investment failures, and to determine the cost of public investment required to renovate the network. The observation is overwhelming: the quality of the water system in the overseas is deplorable, and the inhabitants undergo "water towers" that have an unbearable impact on their living conditions. Half of the water is lost to leaks in the network. Since access to water is recognized as a universal fundamental right, it is unthinkable that such inequalities of access and quality will continue in France. That is why we are asking for a report. In questions to the Government, you have indicated that water management is the responsibility of communities, but this is a public health issue; We believe that the Government must shoulder its responsibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u302	In your summary statement, Madam Member, you refer to the situation in Guadeloupe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u303	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u304	You are right to do so, and I must salute, intuitu personae, the voluntarism and commitment of the Minister for Overseas Affairs on this issue, which he had already taken with his arms before even assuming his current duties; Its chief of staff is also very sensitive. The problem of water is of dire gravity in Guadeloupe and, more generally, in the overseas regions. Since you have said, Minister, that it would be better for the reports to be produced by the parliamentarians themselves, I take the ball to the leap: I will soon submit to our group chairman an idea which I have already mentioned to the Speaker of the National Assembly. It is indeed important that we shed full light on the dysfunctions that have existed for several decades in Guadeloupe and elsewhere, where they have dramatic consequences for the population. I therefore ask that your amendment be withdrawn, Madam Member, because we want to go further by taking up the problem ourselves, as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u306	The Special Rapporteur is right: anything that will shed light on the situation of water will go in the right direction. During the questions to the Government, your intervention had caught me alive; I do not want to be led to believe that the government – or the state, for that matter – does not take on its responsibilities. Many parliamentarians present here could testify to the fact that the state abounds by more than a hundred million euros, taking into account the 50 million of the recovery plan, not only on skills that are no longer its own – rigorously, that can be understood – but above all by contradicting the great principle that "water pays water" – water bills finance the investments of the communities. If we thus derogate from any form of common law, it is good, precisely, because we take our responsibilities, and because we do not satisfy ourselves with a situation that is dramatic. Covid-19, from this point of view, doesn't fix things. When I was Secretary of State to the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I invested a great deal on the issue of water, with an approach based on my experience as a local elected official. It was necessary to take courageous and not always popular decisions, such as the dissolution of SIAEAG – the inter-municipal water supply and sanitation union of Guadeloupe – which I decided by decree. I do not want the local elected officials to be tried, because it would be too easy to go everywhere to find those responsible. On this issue of water, we have a duty of unity. The problem is also wider: water towers are also organized in Mayotte, for reasons other than Guadeloupe, in particular the increase in population and the difficulty of access to the resource as such, given the situation of colline deductions. We must avoid amalgamating between the different territories, because they are subject to diverse and complex realities. In Guadeloupe, the difficulty lies not in the production of drinking water – enough is produced – but in its delivery and distribution; It is linked to problems of leakage, pressure and balance of the network throughout the archipelago. It is a question of solidarity: in an island environment, and especially on water issues, the different management authorities have a duty to show solidarity. On Friday, in videoconference, I will bring together several local elected representatives from the various urban communities concerned, and I really ask you to believe that we are taking our responsibilities in this regard. In this area, in fact, a vicious circle risks setting up – when the water no longer flows from the tap, one is obviously encouraged not to pay his bill – and we must succeed in breaking this circle. It is a very delicate issue that must bring us together; On the spot – I am speaking in particular to the Members of the House of Representatives of Guadeloupe – no one would understand that we are making policy on such a sensitive issue, and we must now try to find solutions. The municipal elections are behind us; While regional and departmental elections are on the horizon, there is a need to ensure that political debate does not create difficulties. The necessary engineering is on the table, and the money will be; We strengthened the DEAL – Environmental, Planning and Housing Directorate – of Guadeloupe two years ago so that it could take charge of the matter. It is now the execution that must take precedence. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] I call for the withdrawal of the report as such, but if the National Assembly wishes to take up the matter in order to understand what has happened, to assess what is being done and to examine the situation in detail, it is part of its prerogatives and the Government will of course be at its disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u307	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u308	Thank you for your answer, Minister, and we take note of your position. We therefore withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u309	Amendment No 1899 by Mrs Justine Benin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u310	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u312	Disadvantaged; It is rather the work of the CFL – the local finance committee – to produce such a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u313	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 573.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u314	It is also a request for a report. Major unnecessary projects have not been missed in the Hexagone: Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport, A45 motorway, Lyon-Turin high-speed train line, extension of the Roissy runway, incinerator project in Ivry-sur-Seine, radioactive waste storage project in Bure. Similarly, overseas communities have not been spared by the rapacity of large companies or promoters who have misled public decision-makers, voluntarily or otherwise devoting the public interest to low-interest interests. We are thinking in particular of all the controversies around the new coastal road in La Réunion, or the megamine of gold named Espérance in Guyana. The report requested would provide a comprehensive overview of these unnecessary major projects that endanger public services for private gain and often constitute serious and unjustified damage to ecosystems. This comprehensive census and the detailed evaluation of each project will give clear information to the Parliament and the local and regional authorities concerned, enabling them, where appropriate, to revise their initial decisions on a clearer and objective basis. As far as the new coastal route is concerned, it would have been necessary to find another solution at the time when the project was initiated, but now we all know that it must be completed, in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u316	You are right: sometimes we have to ask ourselves questions about large infrastructure overseas. The coastal route of La Réunion alone would deserve a little light, wouldn't it? It cost about EUR 1 billion, and I think it's not over. There's something to be interested in. Personally, I am sending a wise opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u318	[[Smile]] I heard what you said, Mr. Ratenon. If I understand correctly, you want a report on the big projects whose state is not necessarily the owner of the project. It is difficult for me to give an opinion in favour of a report by the state services to decide whether projects should be carried out by regional councils, departmental councils, intercommunal councils or communes. [[Smile]] You ask that this report be submitted within eight months – on projects under the control of local authorities. I think I'm seeing local politics out there, Mr. Member of Parliament. That is why I would ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u319	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Ratenon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u320	I could have withdrawn it, but, given what the minister said, I would have retained it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u321	That wasn't mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u322	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support Amendment No. 2062.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u323	This is a final request for a report, minister, even though I heard that it was up to Members to make the reports. The objective of the transversal policy document for the overseas countries and territories is, in its axis 2, to "promote genuine equality of opportunities for young people overseas. This objective is based on an implacable reality, that of the digital importance of youth overseas. To achieve this, several mechanisms are put in place: the training of military service trainees adapts – ADM – the passport for the mobility of vocational training and the "Mayotte future managers" program. This last programme has been very successful, I must say, and I believe that an initial evaluation of this mechanism is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u325	Mrs Ali said everything: this mechanism is certainly effective – he demonstrated its effectiveness in New Caledonia before being in the process of doing it in Mayotte. I think we need to highlight the mechanisms that work, but also – and above all – generalize them in all overseas departments and territories. We have tried this one successfully in New Caledonia and Mayotte: it brings in ultramarine frames overseas. So let's generalize it. In my personal capacity, I therefore express an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u326	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u327	We are, of course, in favour of this mechanism: we have deployed it and we continue to do so. However, it is too early to report as the 2018 cohorts are not yet fully out of the system. It seems to me premature and difficult to start evaluating an action whose foundations are still under construction. That is why I suggest that you withdraw your amendment, even if we rest the question next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u328	Mrs Ali, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u329	Yeah, waiting for next year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u330	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the examination of the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u331	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u332	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u333	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to immigration, asylum and integration (No 3399, Annex 28 ; No 3403, Volume VII; No 3404, Volume II). [[Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, applauds]] Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u334	We will applaud more for Pierre-Henri Dumont!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u335	We are gathered today to examine the appropriations of the mission "Immigration, Asylum and Integration", which I am examining with Stella Dupont – which is absent this morning because of the change in the parliamentary agenda. In the draft finance law for 2021, the Mission's appropriations are €1.8 billion in commitment authorisations – EA – and €1.9 billion in payment appropriations – CP. Compared to 2020, these amounts decrease by 8% for EAs and increase by 2% for CPs. These funds are in a context profoundly modified by the pandemic and are characterized by both elements of change and elements of continuity. The change in the migration context is clear and results directly from the health situation. In 2020, for the first time since 2015, the number of asylum applications lodged in France will decrease, due in particular to travel restrictions observed over the past several months. By the end of the year, 100,000 asylum applications are expected to be submitted to OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – compared to just over 130,000 in 2019. In 2021, 130,000 new applications are expected – as much as in 2019. The appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission take into account this new migration context and present elements of continuity and change. As far as asylum policy is concerned, continuity is reflected in the continued high level of resources allocated to OFPRA: for the second year in a row, its budget will be over €90 million, compared to just €65 million in 2017. The recruitments carried out by OFPRA are expected to allow this institution to issue 170,000 decisions in 2021, compared to 115000 in 2018, which will lead to a significant reduction in the processing time for asylum applications. In the fight against irregular immigration, continuity is reflected in the continued increase in resources. Investments in the renovation and extension of the administrative detention centres – CRA – are confirmed and 1500 places will be created by the "Relaunch Plan" mission in the return preparation centres. In my view, the expected increase in assisted removals is a source of satisfaction, since it takes into account some of the recommendations that Alexandre Holroyd and I made a year ago. However, there are two important developments in asylum policy. The first is the creation of 4,500 additional accommodation spaces, including 500 for the "Relaunch Plan" mission. One year after focusing on recruitment in favour of OFPRA, the finance bill thus focuses on increasing accommodation capacity. The second important development relates to the appropriations for the asylum-seekers' allowance. I want to stress this point. During the spring of the evaluation, Stella Dupont and I delivered an uncompromising analysis of the budgetary forecast errors systematically observed in recent years. During the preparation of our report, we asked the Ministry of the Interior at length, and on several occasions, about its assumptions about the construction of the budget. At the end of these discussions, we believe that the assumptions in the finance bill are credible. The planned expenditure on the asylum-seekers' allowance seems optimistic, but plausible. Nevertheless, we will remain vigilant in the years to come. In this regard, we welcome the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has taken into account the previous observations of the Committee on Finance. The mission "Immigration, asylum and integration" is not limited to the right to asylum and the fight against irregular immigration: it also includes funds dedicated to integration. In terms of the resources devoted to this component, continuity prevails and the very important financial effort made since 2017 is confirmed. In 2021, the appropriations under programme 104, "Intégration et access à la nationalité française", will thus amount to EUR 433 million, while they were limited to EUR 180 million in 2017. This continuity must, however, be accompanied by an improvement in the consumption of appropriations, since, in the case of programme 104, the budgetary challenge lies both in the implementation of appropriations and in their opening. As regards integration, Stella Dupont and I also call for various adaptations aimed at improving the professional integration of asylum seekers and refugees. We have recently submitted a report on this subject, and we hope that the Government will retain some of the proposals we have made, particularly with regard to the language trainings of the Republican integration contract. I will conclude by stressing that the proposed budget is entirely satisfactory even if, in the strict budgetary plan, the use of the "Relaunch Plan" mission to finance certain expenditure leaves us dubious. I thank Laurent Delrieu for his work and congratulate the draftsmen on the quality of their reports. [[Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, draftswoman for opinion, applauds]] Stella Dupont and I therefore call on you to confirm the adoption of the appropriations decided in the Finance Committee and to vote in favour of the appropriations of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u336	[[MM. Thibault Bazin and Fabien Di Filippo applaud]] I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u337	France has never welcomed so many foreigners: to the historical figure of the first 280,000 residence permits issued last year, we must add the 150,000 registered asylum seekers – a record, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u338	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u339	More than 400,000 foreigners have thus legally arrived in our country in 2019; 3.5 million live there. We were therefore entitled to expect an ambitious "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" budget in the 2021 Finance Bill, but this is not the case: for the first time in five years, the appropriations for this mission are down 8.82 per cent in commitment authorizations and the slight increase of 2 per cent in payment appropriations is based only on a mechanical increase in the amounts allocated to asylum. The reality is simple: this budget is not up to the migration situation in France. Indeed, while a budget must be the instrument for the implementation of a policy, this government has still not clearly answered the question of whether it wants more or less immigration to France. Refusing to answer this simple question, he makes the country subject to the law of human traffickers, who become the real decision-makers of our migration policy. There are, however, means for a takeover. The first of them is not numbered, but is measured: it is political courage – and you miss it. Our asylum system, which honours France, is now becoming out of control and therefore ineffective. The asylum application in our country has doubled in five years and we register 20% of European asylum applications. In one year, asylum applications have increased by almost 10% in France while they are declining everywhere else: 30% of our applicants have already been rejected elsewhere in Europe. More than 10% come from Albania or Georgia, a country whose nationals you have authorized to come to France without a visa. The consequence is direct: despite the reinforcements allocated to OFPRA to process these requests, the system is emboldened. While the aim was to process asylum applications in two months, nine of them are now needed to rule on the matter – the seven months of appeal to the CNDA, the National Court of the Right to Asylum. Sixteen months to finally reject the applicants, it's unacceptable! This is unacceptable because it deprives true asylum seekers of the effective protection of France. Inacceptable, as this places an additional burden on public finances. Inacceptable, because 10% of the places open in our reception facilities are occupied by people who have nothing to do with them, forcing other applicants to sleep in camps. Inacceptable, finally, because it does not allow to expel anyone who is not protected. The reality of our asylum system is that the applicant has no choice between protection and expulsion, but between being protected and becoming illegal in France, thus strengthening the cohort of half a million – at the bottom – of those who already live in our country. In 2021, the amounts paid for state medical aid will pass the symbolic bar of one billion euros, benefiting almost 40% more irregular foreigners than in 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u340	What a waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u341	In order to properly integrate foreigners in a regular situation in France, we need to expel those who have nothing to do with it. Unfortunately, you are making the deliberate choice not to expel the illegals: in 2019, out of the 151000 removal orders issued, only 23000 were actually executed. You are reduced to abandon asking the countries of origin for the consular passes necessary to extend the border, because you are well aware that, in the absence of strong actions in the visa policy and of modulation of the development aid paid to these countries, you will not get them. Only 8365 consular passes were requested in 2019. Worse still: Even when you get the agreement of countries to return foreigners, you don't do it: out of the 30,000 requests made under the Dublin Rules that received a positive response in 2019, you only executed 5600. This lack of political voluntarism transpires in your budget, since the small increase in funds allocated to the return of illegal immigrants to their country is entirely intended for return to the Balkans, knowingly forgetting the return to Asia or Africa. Year after year, you open places in administrative detention centres – which we welcome, since this is the most effective solution for returning an irregular alien to his country – but you do not give instructions to fill these places: 40% of them are so far unoccupied, as is the case in the CRA de Coquelle. As you know, Madam Deputy Minister, the situation in Calais is serious: men, women and children die drowned in the English Channel. The efforts of the security forces to avoid these tragedies are immense: 450 crossings or attempts to cross have been prevented since 1 January. You have to tell the British to assume their responsibility, which is not just financial. Require them to examine asylum applications on the continent, as the exit of the United Kingdom from the Dublin system increases flows to London and will therefore once again place a heavy burden on the inhabitants and businesses of Calaisis. You must also give more means to the forces of order in my territory, in order to effectively prohibit these dangerous crossings, even if you add the assistance of the army, as is the case in Guyana, with Operation Harpie. Finally, I propose that you create a single command for the rescue and prevention of crossings, both on land and on sea, placing under the same authority prefectures, maritime prefectures, law enforcement and rescue services. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I disapprove of the appropriations for the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration", which are not – far from it – up to the situation. However, this has not been the choice of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which gives a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u342	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u343	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u344	In the context of the covid-19 epidemic, I have chosen to focus this year on the health of those detained in administrative detention centres. During the first confinement, ten of the twenty-one CARs continued their activities under a strict health protocol and with the authorization of the Council of State, referred twice to the Council for a preliminary ruling. After the breakdown, all CRAs resumed their activity, but at a much lower rate than last year. To my knowledge, since the beginning of the epidemic crisis, twenty-two people selected have been tested positive for covid-19. Perhaps you have new information on this point, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship. And what measures have been put in place since the new confinement? I would also like to know why the CRAs, in the current epidemic context, are 40% occupied, which is mentioned by my colleague. Of course, while this context has a certain impact on the issue of health in detention, it has a particularly glaring effect in that it aggravates the recurrent difficulties that hinder the fully satisfactory health care of the persons detained in the CARs. From a strictly budgetary point of view, the evolution of appropriations is on the increase: the strengthening of the Government's policy on removal has been accompanied by an increase in the appropriations for health care, which amounts to 10.6 million euros in this draft finance law. However, the health issue cannot be analysed under the budgetary prism alone. Whether it is the warnings issued by the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, the Defender of Rights or the associations involved in the detention centre, all show that there are numerous and recurring complaints about the treatment of sick persons in the CARs. During my work, I discovered that the organization of their medical units, the UMCRAs, was based on a 1999 circular, more at all adapted to the current situation of detention. In addition, there is a strong financial disparity that can range from simple to quadruple, and inadequately harmonized health care. A working group on this issue has been in existence for more than ten years. The 1999 circular was finally repealed in 2017, but still serves as a reference, as the text to replace it has not yet been published. In the course of the review of the Mission's appropriation laws in committee, the Government committed itself to the publication being published in early 2021, which I welcome. I explain in my report for opinion that, in the absence of an epidemiological study carried out in CRA, the only indicator to identify the main pathologies is in the analysis of applications, for medical reasons, of protection against removal made by the persons selected: in 2019, the French Immigration and Integration Office was seized of applications mainly based on mental disorders and behavior, as well as on infectious or parasitic diseases. I would like to alert you, Madam Minister, to the mental health status of the persons detained, as it has become a matter of great concern, especially in the context of an increase in the length of detention and in the average occupancy rate of the centres. Tension, self-mutilation and violence are increasingly burdensome and, of course, detrimental to the persons detained and to the service providers present on the spot and to the police officers. Since 2020, psychologists have been deployed in the CARs, on the initiative of this majority and the special rapporteurs concerned, whom I welcome for this, but I must warn you that this deployment remains modest and not uniform and that, above all, it does not allow for medical and therefore psychiatric care of people while their mental disorders are sometimes very important. It is therefore necessary that agreements be signed between the UMCRAs and mental health institutions in order for their psychiatric care and follow-up to be organized in the CARs. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] The observation I have just made is not recent: exactly twenty years ago, Louis Mermaz, who was then a Member of Parliament, presented administrative detention centres as places on the borders of humanity. The conclusions to be drawn from this are more urgent than ever, given the context of the epidemic crisis and the fact that the Government has reaffirmed its willingness to fulfil its obligations to leave France, or OQTF. If we understand the need to apply the latter, then the conditions of detention must live up to our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u345	We will now hear the spokespersons of the political groups. Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u346	We are looking at this finance bill for 2021 in a very difficult context: that of multiple and dramatic crises, including health and economic crises, and that of a very high level of terrorist threats, as the recent attacks have tragically reminded us. However, this should not distract us from the objective of voting on this finance bill: the continuity of the state and the pursuit of its missions throughout the territory, missions that are even more indispensable in such a context. The State must indeed have the means to pursue them in a calm and determined manner, and the appropriations proposed for the budgetary mission "Immigration, asylum and integration" contribute to an appropriate and responsible response to this objective. In recent years, the Government has acted in the search for a fair balance between, on the one hand, the values that honour our country, that of the protection and reception with dignity and humanity of persons at risk in their country of origin, and, on the other hand, a principle of firmness, the application of which must enable the effective fight against irregular immigration and the return to their countries of origin of persons who have no place in our territory. This is the famous "at the same time" that our LaREM group has been advocating on this subject since the Asylum and Immigration Act. In these troubled times, conducive to the rise of feelings of anger or distrust towards the other, it is all the more necessary to conduct a balanced policy on these issues; We must both reassure our fellow citizens and act firmly and effectively while remaining firm on our humanist principles. First of all, I note the budgetary effort proposed to the nation to better accommodate asylum seekers: I would like in particular to stress the significant increase in the budget allocated to aid for asylum seekers and the measures taken to reduce the processing times for their cases – a challenge for more than five years. This will include an increase in OFPRA's resources and the sustainability in 2021 of the increase in its employment ceiling – plus 200 full-time equivalents – granted for 2020. In addition, better reception of asylum seekers will also be possible through the creation of 3000 additional places in asylum-seekers' reception centres – CADA – and 1500 additional places in reception and situation examination centres – CAES. I would also like to point out that since 2017, the State has invested heavily in accommodation, particularly in emergency accommodation, thus allowing a roof to be offered to many foreigners, regardless of their administrative situation. This budget further reinforces this trend as emergency accommodation will benefit from €126 million in additional funding. Finally, in parallel with this tradition of reception, this budget makes it possible, in a fair manner, to continue the necessary fight against irregular immigration, a struggle which is the necessary corollary for a good reception in our territory of the people who really need it. The sharp increase in appropriations allocated to the fight against irregular immigration, i.e. close to 16% in commitment authorisations compared to the budget for 2020, is evidence of an even stronger commitment to intensifying State action in this area. Similarly, the significant investments planned for the establishment, renovation or extension of administrative detention centres, and the incentive for prefects to allow new ones, illustrate the desire to step up our fight against irregular immigration. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, for the correct balance shown in this budget in a coherent way between our welcome values and the fight against irregular immigration, the moving Republic Group will therefore vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u347	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u348	[[Smile]] Applause fed on the benches of the LR group, it will be marked on the record!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u349	Does France still deserve a little in 2020 or is it now doomed to offer itself to the first comer who violates his rights and has rights over him? There has never been so much tension, so many violent acts, so many terrorist acts in our country. We can no longer close our eyes to the immense problems of integration that he is facing, to the saturation of his capacities for reception and integration – which has consequences that we have warned you about for three years now – and to the fact that this migratory pressure is increasingly fuelling the communalism that is breaking our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u350	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u351	Yet, 275,000 residence permits were issued in 2019, an absolute record. More than 150,000 people applied for asylum last year, although we know that the vast majority of them are legitimately rejected and that 96% of them remain, despite everything, illegally on our soil. In 2019, nearly 125,000 arrests of illegal aliens were carried out, the highest in the last five years. Unfortunately, expulsions are difficult to follow and, as a result, 30,000 illegal immigrants end up being regularized every year as they have violated our borders and sat down on our laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u352	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u353	While this mission benefits from a further €36.8 million in payment appropriations compared to 2020, this represents only an increase in the order of inflation and the additional resources are allocated mainly to the creation of accommodation places for asylum seekers! Indeed, 90% of the programme's appropriations go to guaranteeing the right to asylum and less than 10% are spent on combating irregular immigration. In the current economic, health, social and security context, however, the fight against illegality should be a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u354	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u355	The massive welcome of people we are not in a position to integrate is a tragedy of misery that puts us at risk. It is more than time to put our budget in tune with the necessary actions. The echo of the latest attacks is shouting in this respect: the migration strategy of the Government, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, where humanity evoked by the previous speaker confines itself to naivety and where firmness is unfortunately confined to speeches: a Pakistani terrorist illegally entered France having lied about his age; a Chechen terrorist, a symbol alone of the violation of the right to asylum, refused by an administrative decision subsequently quashed by the National Court of Asylum; A Tunisian terrorist smuggled into our country less than a month ago, after being rescued by Italian aid. These abominable findings call for immediate reactions. Let us set each year a legal immigration ceiling adapted to our integration capabilities and voted by Parliament. Let's exculpate foreign illegals who have been sentenced to prison. They now represent almost a quarter of the detainees in French prisons. Let us explain, not fourteen, but the thousands of foreigners on the terrorist radicalization file. Let us impose bone tests on unaccompanied minors and consider those who refuse to do so as adults. Let us extend security detention to perpetrators of terrorist crimes or offences while several hundred of the individuals concerned will be released by 2022. Let us prohibit the return of French jihadists to national territory and systematically apply to them the deprivation of nationality. Our Republican Group also advocates a five-year moratorium on immigration so that people already present on our soil can be properly integrated, and hopes that the code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum – the CESEDA – will gradually evolve towards a chosen immigration system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u356	That's the program we need in the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u357	Madam Minister, you and your government must ensure the efficient transfer of asylum seekers under the Dublin Regulation. Last year, however, 30,000 of the 50,000 applications were accepted, but fewer than 6,000 migrants were returned. Official development assistance must also be conditional on the systematic agreement of the countries receiving the return of their nationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u358	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u359	Finally, we must put an end to the appeal of immigration for social comfort. Two levers are to be used: the first is the AME, the state medical aid, which now amounts to more than one billion euros and which takes care of almost all the care for the illegals, being therefore at the origin of a medical tourism and deep inequities in our hospitals; The second is social benefits, the payment of which should be conditional on a regular presence in France for a minimum of three years and also on the regular payment of social security contributions. These measures are more than necessary and, in the fight against separatism, they will have far more important consequences than the announcements by Emmanuel Macron, who advocates the early teaching of Arabic while some families suffer for their integration – the parents themselves do not master or speak French – or the total ban on teaching at home, because we are unable to control Islamic-based de-schooling. As you will understand, the Republicans will vote against these credits. But before that, we will try to change them profoundly by proposing various amendments, because the time is grave: not only must we stop the deadly drift that destroys the national community, but we must also show the new generation and those who sincerely aspire to join us and share our values that the path to success is in work, faith in the republican model, and the love of a country that has so much to offer when it is respected and deserved. France has rights over us, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u360	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u361	Bravo! A measured speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u362	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u363	The context in which we look at the funding of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is unique in many ways. First of all because of the health crisis, but also in view of the terrible terrorist attacks that have hit our country and our neighbours, which must necessarily lead us to re-examine our migration policy. Secondly, because a debate on separatism has been initiated, which prompts us to review our integration policy. Finally, because at European level, things are changing – in the right direction, I hope – with the reshaping of the Union's migration policy initiated by Ursula von der Leyen. A particular context, therefore, which brings me to the following point: while I can only welcome the increase in the budget allocated to this mission, and in particular, as you said, Mr rapporteur, the creation of 4000 new places of accommodation, I do not see a clear political line behind these appropriations. In our view, three points are missing. First of all, in the wake of the crisis that we are experiencing, the problem of the health management of the CRAs, on which I share the opinion of the draftsman, and the many shortcomings in the care of people in detention question. Like her, I hope that the circular of 7 December 1999 on health facilities in administrative detention centres, which, in the absence of new legislation and despite its repeal, remains the reference point, will be replaced very soon. If you can, minister, give us a date. A word from the human resources of the Office français de l'immigration et de l'integration – OFII – and OFPRA. Those of the OFII suffer from a strong turn-over – this is a well-known phenomenon – but still have to carry out many missions. I am therefore surprised that, to quote the words of our rapporteur, there is no increase in the employment ceiling this year: it is once again a missed opportunity to remedy this problem, which is all the more regrettable that OFPRA, which has seen its subsidy increase by 1.3% compared to 2020, is therefore experiencing a reverse dynamic. Once again, OFII is the poor parent of our immigration and integration policy, and this questions us: what direction do we give to this policy if we do not provide for the needs of its main actor? Finally, I would like to conclude by recalling the recommendations and proposals resulting from the excellent report produced by our colleagues Jean-Noël Barrot and Stella Dupont. First and foremost, we need to strengthen considerably the learning of the French language: it is, from any point of view, a key element in the integration of people who wish to settle in our country. However, the appropriations presented today seem to us to be insufficient to achieve this objective. We must also make progress in terms of access to work. Our colleagues propose the creation of posts of advisers specifically dedicated to the monitoring of the refugee journey within Pôle emploi: again, I fully agree with their proposal. [[Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, draftswoman, and Jean-Noël Barrot, special rapporteur, applauded]] The MoDem Group and related democrats therefore welcome the increase in the Mission's appropriations, but cannot be fully satisfied with it: these appropriations lack relief and do not support the levers of integration such as the reception of foreigners, language training and access to employment. If we regret it, we will still support the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u364	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u365	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u366	The budget of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is up by €36 million, more than 2% compared to 2020. While the Socialist and Related Group welcomes this, it notes that commitment authorizations are falling sharply, by almost 9%. This situation penalizes a long-term view of the reception of refugees, which we believe is necessary. This is a real paradox: France, a country of human rights, is failing in its duty to receive asylum seekers decently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u368	The alarming health conditions in administrative detention centres are proof of this: we urge the Government to address them urgently. The draftswoman for the opinion has made many recommendations that we support, such as strengthening human resources – this has already been mentioned – a better anticipation, because it is fundamental, the creation of 200 posts within OFPRA and the opening of 4000 additional reception places. A special situation must also be taken into account: traditional political refugees will certainly be added to climate refugees in the coming years. This is an undeniable and inescapable fact, and we must prepare for it. We also insist on the Dublin Regulation, which must be reformed absolutely, because it tends to create a completely unworthy situation, and we must reach a Europe agreement of quality, clear and respectful of human dignity – I know that you are working on it. With regard to immigration, your budget reflects your negative and secure vision. Yes, irregular immigration must be combated: we make it clear and the recent tragic events in Nice have demonstrated this perfectly. However, the desire to expel as many people as possible by energizing a policy of remoteness cannot be the cornerstone of a migration policy. Minister, pay attention to the trivialization of the ideas of the National Rally, which only worsens the ruptures within a French society, already very fractured socially. Your integration policy, on the other hand, seems ambitious, but we expect action. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] In conclusion, despite budgetary efforts – more than 1% – the creation of 200 posts at OFPRA and 4000 places in CADA, your lack of long-term vision and the unworthy migration policy that you have been leading since the beginning of the legislature force the Socialist and related group to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u369	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u370	The appropriations for the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission included in the draft finance law for 2021 amount to almost 1.8 billion euros in commitment authorisations, a significant decrease of 8.82 %, and to 1.84 billion euros in payment appropriations, a slight increase of 2.2% compared to the initial finance law for 2020. This mission, which consists of two programmes – the 303 "Immigration and Asylum" programme and the 104 "Integration and Access to French Nationality" programme – is structured around three main areas of action: the control of migration flows, the integration of immigrants in a regular situation and the guarantee of the right to asylum. The 303 "Immigration and Asylum" programme has increased its appropriations for 2020 to EUR 1.32 billion in commitment authorisations, i.e. a fall of 11.5%, and EUR 1.41 billion in payment appropriations, i.e. an increase of 2.5%. The budget of this programme makes the immigration component almost non-existent, since almost all the appropriations are allocated to Action 2 "Guarantee of the exercise of the right of asylum".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u371	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u372	Thus, in terms of reception capacity, the accommodation system was strengthened in 2021 by almost 6000 places, including 3000 places in reception centres for asylum seekers and 1000 places in reception and examination centres. In addition, the Government's exceptional stimulus plan in the context of the covid-19 epidemic, which is part of a new budget mission, will provide funding for 500 additional places for reception and situational examination centres and 1,500 places for return preparedness centres. Such accommodation appears to be an alternative to the administrative detention centre for persons under supervision with an obligation to leave French territory. I do not know why these accommodations are included in the recovery plan, but the reception conditions will have to be made more dignified. The PLF for 2021 also provides for an increase in appropriations for the action "Combating irregular immigration" under Programme 303, which increases by 15.95 % in commitment authorisations and by 4.05 % in payment appropriations, to EUR 131 and 127.9 million respectively. This desire to combat irregular immigration is reflected in the mobilisation of many actors at various levels: border security, visa granting, arrest, combating irregular immigration channels or carrying out removal measures. The 104 programme, on integration, saw its appropriations rise very slightly compared to 2020: they reached EUR 433 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, a budget which was very low in view of the ambition expressed by the President of the Republic on the quality of the integration of foreigners in France. However, the appropriations for Action No. 12 "Activities accompanying foreigners in a regular situation", which rose 9% from 2020 to EUR 58 million in 2021, can be welcomed. These appropriations are part of the strong momentum generated by the Interdepartmental Committee of 5 June 2018, and should help to strengthen the tools available to the territories to implement the accompaniment towards employment. Finally, it should be recalled that, on 23 September 2020, the European Commission presented a new pact on migration and asylum, announced as a set of adjustments aimed at better solidarity and more effective European migration policies in the face of Member States' shortcomings, including France. The European Union has been trying for several years to rethink the asylum system in order to better control the phenomenon of migration, to limit the effects of bounty, and to harmoniously share efforts and responsibilities between Member States. As such, France will have to play its full part in the creation of a common migration policy for the Member States, so that the European Union can rise to the challenges of future migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u373	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1060.u374	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further examination of the appropriations of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration"; Review of the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
