ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law organising the exit from the state of health emergency (No. 3178).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, you have come to the conclusion of the review of the bill to move out of the state of emergency. This has been said on several occasions: if the Government proposes to adopt this text, it is not for pleasure, it is in the spirit of responsibility. We would all have preferred that by 10 July, the epidemic be definitely behind us, which would have allowed us to engage life calmly after by immediately and completely re-establishing the rules of common law. Unfortunately, that is not the case. In several French territories, the situation remains worrying, particularly in Guyana. This is why the text includes an article extending the state of emergency in this territory and Mayotte. In metropolitan France, too, the virus continues to circulate. Yesterday, there were 165719 confirmed cases in France, or 918 additional cases in 24 hours. High-quality work has been done in Parliament on this text, in particular between the two chambers. I note that consensus points were found from the first reading, in particular in Article 2, on the duration of storage of data necessary for epidemiological surveillance and research on the virus. We regret that, despite convergence, the Joint Joint Committee – CMP – could not be concluded. This was recalled in the new reading, the main disagreement was the management of a possible resurgence of the covid-19 epidemic at the local level and the means given to the Government to avoid it. The Government's line has always been clear: to avoid any risk of a resumption of the epidemic and to be able to act quickly without waiting for the situation to worsen to the point of becoming a health disaster – a legal condition for the use of a state of health emergency – even at the local level. The bill that we are submitting to you is the only solution between the two pitfalls that would be the dry exit from the state of emergency and its extension. The response to the health threat will need to be reviewed and reorganized. This is the meaning of the re-visit clause introduced by the Senate during the examination of the text that became the law of March 23rd. We will therefore come back to you to review the entire health crisis management system, and a comprehensive debate aimed at redefining the health emergency framework will take place by April 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation requires individual and collective caution at every moment. The risk of a second wave exists. Foreign examples must call us to the utmost vigilance. We must have the tools to deal with the resurgence of local clusters. The balance we need was found in the new reading: the Government will have tools to prevent the spread of the virus without having to restore the state of health emergency. We can only regret the brevity of the debates that took place this morning in the Senate. We would have preferred to complete the real work that had been carried out with the upper chamber. After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, the rapporteur of your Bill Committee, Marie Guévenoux, had taken care to leave the text adopted by the Senate, in order to take into account several of its concerns. In any case, Parliament will have played its full role in building this state of emergency, which was essential. Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law, relating to the application of the state of emergency in New Caledonia and French Polynesia, have been the subject of intense exchanges throughout the parliamentary shuttle. The text will in particular ensure the possibility of continuing to apply quarantine and isolation measures in these two communities until 30 October 2020, while respecting the division of powers between the State and local executive bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, the text that the Government proposes to adopt definitively preserves a balance that the two assemblies have built up. The system is both operational, protective of fundamental freedoms and adapted to changing health circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u4	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u5	We are gathered here to consider, for final reading, the bill to move out of the state of health emergency, in the version that was adopted by our assembly last Tuesday for further reading. I regret that the Senate rejected the bill as a whole, when we maintained the main balance in the version that it adopted at first reading. I understand, however, that his vote was mainly determined by the tight timetable in which we had to study the text. It must be promulgated by 11 July, the date on which the transitional arrangements will have to succeed the state of health emergency applied for 16 weeks. I listened attentively to what was said this morning in the Senate and, I must admit, some arguments continue to surprise me, including the argument that there would be no difference between the state of health emergency and the regime that will succeed it after July 10. However, it is sufficient to read and compare the 1° to 10° of the I of Article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health and the 1° to 4° of the I of Article 1 of the Bill to realize that the transitional arrangement does not constitute an extension of the state of health emergency which would not say its name. In any event, the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee held last week had been preceded by real work of convergence with the rapporteur of the Senate. I am proud to have preserved this work. As you said, Madam Secretary of State, an agreement could even have been reached if we had been able to agree on a final point concerning the management of a possible resurgence of the epidemic at the local level. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, my constant concern has been to preserve operational and detailed mechanisms in order to combat the risks of a local resurgence of the epidemic. Prior to that, the two chambers had validated the general scheme of the text proposed by the Government, while strengthening the safeguards that would govern the implementation of the transitional regime. This is indeed the only credible route that exists between a dry exit from the state of emergency, which would be reckless, and its extension, which would be unjustified. The Council of State has written it and the Senate has confirmed it in its turn: in the future, the response to the health threat can only be based in part on the operative part of article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, contrary to what had been the case, before the establishment of the state of health emergency, in the exceptional circumstances of March. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will have to discuss this issue again during the global debate that will take place to redefine the framework for the state of health emergency, whose deadline was 1 April 2021. On this occasion, we will be able to incorporate the conclusions of the ongoing monitoring work in the two Assemblies and the lessons we will learn from the transitional period. I have no doubt that we will then extend the debates, sometimes passionate but always rich, that we have begun during the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u6	In the general debate, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u7	In the course of our debate, everyone will have understood that this bill is very vague and that there are a few wolves in it. At least it's our reading of it. I shall begin by referring to the confusion which affects both its form and its content. With regard to the method, why should this text be adopted in such haste, whereas the end of the state of emergency is scheduled for 10 July? The time we have had to review and discuss it has been very short, while the issues are important. The problem is in the question: July 10 will officially mark the exit from the state of emergency, but the reality is quite different, everyone will have understood it. In fact, this is a false exit or an alleged exit, since the Prime Minister will be able to continue to impose heavy restrictions on public freedoms until 30 October, without Parliament having to give its opinion. For our part, we cannot tolerate it, because we are committed to the fundamental role of Parliament. Of course, we are all here aware of the danger of a second wave – you were right to mention it, Madam Secretary of State. Several alarming signals attest to this, the pandemic is not behind us. However, in order to deal with threats, there is no need for this text that reduces freedoms. In the event of a resurgence of the pandemic, a simple decree would be sufficient to take measures proportionate to the danger. In the face of such a scenario, it would also be up to Parliament, as you often forget, to decide on the way forward. Let us say that the haste that guided the adoption of this text is commensurate with the social crisis in our country. In fact, this is the umpteenth time since 2017 that a text has organised – this time under the guise of a pandemic – measures to restrict public freedoms, starting with freedom of movement and, above all, freedom of assembly. That's what we can't stand. For those who are committed to the republican character of our country, public freedoms are fundamental. In this text, you extend, for a given period and without a state of emergency, the measures of restriction provided for in article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health, whereas these are in principle mobilizable in the event of a state of emergency! In the current context of social rumbling and in view of the forthcoming mobilizations – the President of the Republic has just announced again, in a large interview, that the return would be hard – all this is far from being annoyed, everyone has understood it well. How can we not see it as a will or the possibility of equipping ourselves with tools to control social movements, or even to stifle them, reduce them, marginalise them? There is no exaggeration on my part. We're not the only ones alerting you. The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights also expressed its concern in a statement issued on 28 June. This was also the meaning of the call for "For the right to demonstrate" launched by a collective of organizations, including the League of Human Rights – I had already mentioned it in the general discussion on a new reading. I come to clause 2 of your bill. Through this system, you plan to extend the retention period of the data collected as part of the information systems implemented to combat the pandemic. We had alerted you: endorsing the creation of files of this type amounts to opening a Pandora's box; the consequences may be quite worrying. We engage on a slippery slope, that of the commodification of the data of what is called the "health data hub". The report of the Council of Ministers states that this hub will exclude StopCovid data, but what guarantees do we have about this? In fact, StopCovid was activated by only 2% of the population, the number of active users being estimated by researchers to be 0.5% of the population. This cannot be seen as a success. At the time of the deconfinition, we must protect and detect, but not track! In the end, you're in a selective emergency. Social plans are multiplying and food aid associations are overwhelmed – I say this in my capacity as Member of Parliament for the Seine-Saint-Denis, where we are experiencing a terrible social crisis, which is progressing painfully. But you only focus on reducing public freedoms. There is no return to normal labour law: employers can continue to impose six days of forced leave on their employees. There is no return to normal either for the 2.5 million temporary workers, while many of them have no safety net. There will be no white year for the unemployed. With regard to possible requisitions or nationalizations, nothing is foreseen. At a time when we need a strategist state and an ambitious recovery plan, you feel like you're looking elsewhere or having other priorities. In these circumstances, we cannot approve this bill, which is insufficient on some points, worrying about others and, ultimately, out of the way in the face of the serious social crisis that will hurt our country in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u8	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u9	For the Écologie démocratie solidarité group, the title of the bill – "Bill organizing the exit from the state of emergency" – conceals the organisation of a state of emergency barely disguised. While the pandemic is active in some parts of the world, particularly on the American continent, the virus appears to be less circulating in France. However, caution should be exercised and the risk of resurgence of the epidemic should not be underestimated. If the situation were to be regarded as requiring the extension of measures restricting freedoms and infringing on the basic rights of persons, why not do so by prolonging the state of emergency rather than extending those exceptional measures which no longer need to be taken today? You are asking us to allow the Prime Minister to take, until 30 October 2020, a number of measures planned in the context of the state of health emergency. It will thus be able to limit freedom of movement, access to means of transport, access to places receiving from the public and gatherings on public roads; It may restrict the freedom of demonstration and the freedom of assembly, which, I remind you, are fundamental freedoms. At first reading, the EDS Group had expressed its misunderstandings about a text which transposes into the common law the provisions of the state of emergency. We had even argued that the Government, if it deemed it necessary, should be able to extend the state of emergency during the summer. I would like to recall that we were not opposed to the Government taking certain exceptional measures in order to ensure the absolute success of the exit from the health crisis. Only an extension of the state of emergency, shorter, framed and focused on actual needs, would have been acceptable. At least we would be in the framework of a codified system, approved by the Constitutional Council, legally sound and respectful of the role of Parliament. However, the text before us in our re-reading did not resolve our doubts. Does the health situation justify delegating such decisive decisions to the Government without the ability of Parliament to perform its most basic role? We don't think so. I would point out that these measures, taken by regulation and for a period of four months, will not be examined by Parliament, which further alters the separation of powers. This method cannot last. Our democracy can no longer support this lasting banality of the state of emergency. There are no irresponsible people here on one side and, on the other, those who would like to protect the French. We are convinced of the need to protect the health of the French and their public freedoms equally. It is for this reason, and in order to make a conscious decision, that the legislator must rely on the advice of scientists. It is indeed necessary to find the right path: it is there, Madam Secretary of State, that you go astray. In fact, not only have our doubts not been removed, but the committee has enriched this text with a mechanism which, it must be said, alerts us. You are asking us to adopt a text that, in addition to the provisions that limit our fundamental freedoms by regulation, would create certificates of immunity, true sesame in order to be able to travel. The Senate has proposed this, but as an alternative to the exception provisions already provided, not as an additional measure. Man would thus become a certified product. Let us remember the darkest hours of our history! [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] So the question remains: are we, yes or no, in a state of emergency?- Is that what you're saying? Either the health situation warrants an extension or it is not, and it is not reasonable to delegate such provisions concerning public freedoms to the Government. Neither the work of this chamber nor the Senate, which voted this morning on a motion to reject it beforehand, has been able to bring about solutions. Here we are looking at a hybrid, pernicious text, a state of emergency that does not say its name. That is why MEPs in the EDS Group will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u10	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u11	France finally sees the end of the tunnel. Our country seems to be moving towards an end to the health crisis, after the difficult times we have had. Almost every day, fewer cases were detected, fewer hospitalizations and fewer deaths than the previous day. This improvement is due to the strict health measures taken in recent months, which have been implemented in a timely, accurate and proportionate manner. These measures were, however, in response to a specific health situation and must now evolve; Consequently, the legislative tools made available to the Government must also do so. That is the meaning of clause 1 of the bill. The state of emergency will end on 10 July. This does not mean that the virus no longer circulates in France, but the economic, social and cultural life of the country, with the uses we knew before the crisis, gradually resumes. The Government's plan to exit the state of emergency is in line with this need, on the basis of two principles: responsiveness and adaptability. Reactivity is made possible by means made available to the Prime Minister. They allow the Government, by regulation, to control certain areas, such as the movement of persons, the opening of private establishments and meeting places to the public, as well as gatherings. To those who might fear that the Government would abuse the powers entrusted to it, I reply that the parsimony shown by the executive during the state of emergency serves as an argument of authority. When it comes to saving lives, sometimes it is necessary to speed up the time for public action. This provision will apply until 30 October 2020. The action of the State must be closely correlated with the reality of the situation. Nevertheless, we must remain vigilant about the length of the legislative tools given to the Government. Rather than going until 30 October, it would have been more consensual to define a shorter period, with a possible extension depending on the evolution of the situation. The second principle that should inspire public policies to manage the epidemic is adaptability, which is not only temporal, but also territorial. Indeed, the geographical and societal differences that exist between our territories have played a decisive role in the spread of the epidemic. So we cannot forget them in our struggle against it. By allowing local State officials to exercise the above-mentioned powers, the Government ensures that the exit from the state of emergency can be ensured with coherence and serenity in all territories. It is regrettable, however, that the effectiveness of our public policies, which have proved successful in all areas, is tainted by a shadow zone. Indeed, the reduction in health measures that this bill allows is accompanied by the resumption of most sectors of activity. It makes sense, in order to preserve our economic soil in the face of the historic crisis that awaits us: the estimates of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD, refer to 10% recession. However, many nightclubs, including nightclubs, seem to be excluded from this logic. They have presented health protocols as restaurants have done, they welcome less public than stadiums, which will soon be able to reopen, but they are condemned to remain closed – and many, under the weight of charges and without turnover, will never reopen. At a time when we must mobilise all the means and all the French to face the future economic crisis, it is a sector that generates 1 billion euros of turnover and employs 43,000 people that we thus leave on the edge of the road. And these closures have other consequences: they encourage, for example, the multiplication of undeclared evenings without any sanitary protocol and which constitute unfair competition with the professionals of the night world. Know how to continue to act with the rationality that you have shown so far, to protect our fellow citizens, and therefore companies, all companies, including those who work at night. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Action Together group will vote in favour of ending the state of emergency by relying on the goodwill and discernment of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u12	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u13	While the health situation is clearly improving, this bill does not provide for the "removal of the state of emergency", but for a "removal of the state of emergency" – a gradual, beveled, graduated exit. If one could, a priori, rejoice at the exit from the state of emergency, one can only be dubious with regard to the hybrid solution devised by the Government. On the one hand, it is proposed to leave the state of emergency, but on the other hand, it is planned to maintain emergency provisions, to maintain the main measures of the state of emergency for almost four more months. If the deadline has been reduced, at first reading, to 30 October instead of 10 November initially, it remains that this extension of the state of health emergency which does not say its name is both inconsistent, unnecessary and dangerous. In this regard, one can only deplore the obstinate refusal of the majority, in the course of the parliamentary shuttle, to reduce, at least, the scope of the restrictions that the Government may take until the autumn. The CMP's failure is clearly due to this obstinacy and refusal to balance "effectiveness in public action" with "exercise of freedoms", in the words of the Chair of the Senate Law Commission. The Communist MEPs reiterate their firm opposition to this text. This is a dangerous bill. It is not acceptable that measures restricting individual freedoms should be taken without bringing Parliament together, outside the framework of the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u14	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u15	If, for the time being, one has to get used to living with the virus, one must not get used to living in a state of emergency. The exit from the state of health emergency must mean that the freedom to go and come, the freedom of assembly, the freedom to demonstrate, even if framed to enforce health rules, become the rule again. As public law professor Stéphanie Hennette-Vauchez says, "the heart of the state of health emergency, the restrictions on the rights of people, has been maintained. Everything about economic activity has disappeared." You are inventing a new legal regime. Is this a state of emergency without a state of emergency?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is the contamination of the common law by the trivialisation of measures to restrict freedoms, such as that of manifesting. The risk that certain exceptional provisions would incorporate the common law is very real and calls for greater vigilance. This bill is not only dangerous, it seems to us to be useless. On the one hand, the Government already has all the tools it needs to deal with a new serious health threat. Section L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code gives extremely broad powers to the Minister of Health, who may "prescribe in the interest of public health any measure proportionate to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place in order to prevent and limit the consequences of possible threats to the health of the population". On the other hand, in the event of an upsurge in the epidemic, in the event of a new outbreak of contamination, nothing would prevent the Government from resorting once again to a state of health emergency. At a time when discontent is growing and demonstrations are increasing, there is a legitimate concern that the Prime Minister will be given the opportunity to regulate them without being able to ban them. The professor of constitutional law Dominique Rousseau alerts us in these terms: the state of emergency health "founds justification only in the ease for the Government to suppress demonstrations, to limit freedom of assembly and freedom of demonstration". One might wonder what is the point of extending certain provisions of the state of emergency after it has been removed, except that it allows the Government to restrict the movement of persons and regulate gatherings for political, not public health, reasons. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] At the moment, social plans are falling apart: 500 jobs are threatened at Sanofi, 3500 at Airbus, 4500 at Renault, 7000 at Air France, 1233 at Nokia, 1000 at Hutchinson, among many others. Airbus employees, whom I met again this morning in Toulouse, are calling for a demonstration on July 10. I hope that many of us will support them. Yes, the right to protest is more necessary than ever in our country, in order to assert the right of workers to defend themselves. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and EDS benches]] Ultimately, and for this reason, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote one last time resolutely against this text, which creates a new hybrid regime between a state of emergency and a common law, a grey zone that gives the Prime Minister exceptional powers, which he does not want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u16	Bravo! It was very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u17	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u18	[[Smile]] After Fabien Roussel's intervention, there's nothing left to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u19	The temptation for some time now is to call the virus in front of this house or in front of the Senate, which continues to make it sick and kill, to order it to stop, because we would have decided to put an end to the state of emergency and we would like to be able to decree that the situation is normal. This temptation, our debates, illustrated it. And then they have evolved, because we are obliged to see that every day new clusters appear and new patients are diagnosed, and that the situation is not stabilized in the rest of the world. That is why the majority has decided to build a system that will allow a gradual exit from the state of emergency. I deeply regret that we have not reached a consensus on the proposed mechanism, which is very temporary, since it ends on 30 October, as we have decided during our work. Let us examine the arguments of those who oppose this text. Some consider that it would give the Government exorbitant powers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u20	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u21	... but the same call for recourse to the law of 23 March 2020, which nevertheless grants the Prime Minister more extensive prerogatives. For example, under section 2 of the Act, it authorizes the claimant to "order the requisition of all necessary goods and services", even if it is a mere health threat. In this text, there are only four criteria, one of which relates only to overseas... We must have a little measure – unless we are aiming for a different objective than that of getting the country out of the crisis situation. Some call for the use of article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, which, in their view, would make it possible to do everything. I note, however, that the Senate has proposed to rewrite this clause, because it was not entirely adapted to the situation we are in. It is thus expected to respond to an exceptional health situation. However, we know the situation; We now know what can happen to us and what we are going to. It would therefore be difficult to refer to an exceptional situation. In any event, the problem is not there – and that is what I blame for the oppositions. They would like to take back the old political strings, accusing the Government of all evils, shouting at conspiracy and taking into account only measures to restrict freedoms, while our only objective is to manage to curb the epidemic. Of course, the situation has improved, but between "it's better" and "the pandemic is stopped", there is a difference – and it is this difference that lies at the heart of our work. We have done important work with the Senate. It would be incorrect to say that the discussions in the CMP have taken on general considerations. The disagreement was about a very simple question: what should be the scope of the exceptional measures decided by the Prefect in the event of the appearance of a cluster? The Assembly considered that the prefect's normal framework of action was the department; The Senate preferred that the decrees be taken jointly by commune, which seems complicated when there are hundreds of departments. Even though our rapporteur has done a great deal of work in trying to bring the points of view together, this has not been possible – and it is not so serious. In any case, the failure of the CMP sends a very special message to our fellow citizens: we are no longer fighting the epidemic together, and we find the chicayas of political parties and the disagreements between the majority and the opposition. That's too bad. The Chair of the Senate's Law Committee, Philippe Bas – for whom I have a great deal of esteem – said: "For many of our fellow citizens, the state of emergency has become synonymous with containment." Do you really believe that, if any new clusters appear, which would require a very specific and localized action, it is necessary to prepare the French for a new confinement? Our country needs a resumption of activity and economic recovery. Should this huge machine be revived at the appearance of any cluster, when it is possible to treat the situation with intelligence and measurement? The criticisms addressed to us are marked by conspiracy, and also by a paradox: we are accused of not doing enough, while a recovery plan is planned, whose sectoral measures will reinforce those already taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u22	That's for later!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u23	No, it's not for later!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u24	It's not in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u25	Look at what has already been done: to cope with the recession, which is expected to reach between 10% and 12% of GDP – which represents a shortfall of 300 billion euros – we have already put on the table some 460 billion euros, even before the recovery plan. We can't be blamed for not doing anything! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] President Bas concluded his speech with applause, saying: "The Senate... always strives to find solutions. But he has his personality and his demands. We don't make him do what he doesn't want to do. Similarly, if the National Assembly always strives to find solutions, it has its demands, and it is not made to do what it does not want to do. This evening, I believe, it will adopt this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u26	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u27	We are considering this evening, on final reading, the bill to move out of the state of health emergency. "Outing" is a great word, since this text merely proposes a sweetened version of the state of health emergency – but, with this government and its majority, we are used to misleading titles. We regret that you have not been able to reach an agreement with the Senate on a joint joint committee. This is the first failure of a text on the management of the health crisis. Until then, we had managed to grant the Government exorbitant prerogatives of common law, which for several weeks restricted the freedom of our compatriots. That was not the case this time, because you are not saying things clearly. This text has nothing to do with an exit from the state of emergency, since you extend all the tools of the state of emergency. In further reading, the Senate simply rejected the bill. Indeed, according to his rapporteur, Philippe Bas, "this text simply extends powers conferred on the executive in the context of the state of emergency. [...] In essence, you want the end of the state of health emergency without depriving yourself of the state of health emergency. This, Mr. Vuilletet, is another quote that balances your remarks – somewhat misleading – from just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u28	I don't agree with this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u29	That is exactly what we had already denounced. Why don't you look for national unity, in this difficult context for our country? We know the covid-19 crisis is not over.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u30	Ah! There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u31	However, if the state of emergency is to end on July 10, as you assure us, there is no reason to extend the measures of restriction of liberty provided for in article L. 3131-15 of the Public Health Code, which we amended under the Act of March 23, 2020. We need to know how to stop the exception and not to perpetuate obstacles to the freedoms to which we are attached. While we finally have the means to protect our compatriots through masks and tests, these obstacles are no longer justified. Stop a transitional arrangement that maintains a state of emergency, in which entire sections of our right are set aside and where restrictions on important or fundamental rights, such as freedom to come and go, freedom of movement, freedom to assemble, are too strong. You're offering us one more in-between. But we can't be both inside and outside. It is important to take responsibility: if the state of health emergency is to cease on 10 July, the measures it includes must end at the same time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We can't give you a white-seing until October 30th. That is why the Republican Group will vote against this false exit from the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u32	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u33	[[Nathalie Elimas applauds]] The work of the Joint Joint Committee has therefore failed. I will be brief, since we have already discussed this text at length in committee and in the Chamber – in all, in the National Assembly alone, the debates will have lasted twelve hours. It's not bad for four articles!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u35	This text presents all the necessary democratic guarantees. The proposed arrangement will end on 30 October; It is therefore bounded in time, and transient. These provisions are not intended to enter, as the rapporteur pointed out, into ordinary law. I repeat this for our fellow citizens: this text is not a Trojan horse, contrary to what some of our colleagues would like us to believe. Evidence that we have given attention and time to its consideration, and that we have been anxious to provide all the necessary guarantees to the mechanism, we have enriched the original bill. At the end of our work with our fellow senators, we added two articles to him. This text is only to protect us, all of us, during the current inter-health situation. Let us be reasonable and responsible. The virus is still well present, so we must be careful, as this text calls for. Dear colleagues in the opposition, how will you respond to the French if the pandemic goes back? If we fail to protect our fellow citizens from a new wave, what will you tell them? For our part, we are trying to protect them with this text. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Let's not make a mistake about priority. The MODEM group should be protected and organised. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u36	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u37	The bill organizing the exit from the state of emergency comes before the Assembly after it has been rejected by the Senate. The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights calls it a "departure from the state of emergency", adding: "threats to rights and freedoms persist". I have said this since the discussion of the first text on health emergency: there are texts that have enabled the Government to take all relevant decisions regarding containment, monitoring and access to emergency care for the population, at the very beginning of the pandemic, even before the referral to Parliament. The successive texts have added nothing to the ability of the public authorities to intervene, but they have undermined freedoms. Since the start of the parliamentary shuttle, this has been stressed on all the benches of the Chamber, with the notable exception of those of the majority: article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code was sufficient in March last year, and would suffice tomorrow, to manage the situation in the event of a resumption of the epidemic. What does this article say? "In the event of a serious health threat requiring urgent action, particularly in the event of a threat of an epidemic, the Minister responsible for health may, by reasoned order, prescribe in the interest of public health any measure proportionate to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place in order to prevent and limit the consequences of possible threats on the health of the population. The Minister may also take such measures after the end of the state of health emergency provided for in Chapter Ia of this Title, in order to ensure the lasting disappearance of the situation of health crisis. » As you can see, the field is wide, but it is still calibrated to the objective of efficiency. In other words, a capacity to act is established on the basis of the principle of balance between the beneficial and potentially harmful effects of the arrangements to be taken on an urgent basis. The idea is simple: when the situation clearly requires it, the declaration of a state of emergency is not questionable – that is why we did not oppose the establishment of a state of emergency in March or its extension during May; Conversely, when the situation no longer demands it clearly, then it is normal and even indispensable to leave the state of emergency, in order to regain the common law, which allows all necessary measures to be taken to put an end to the pandemic. This text is useless. It tends to standardize a police approach to public health, while cases of contamination are in sharp decline and contaminated people can benefit from adequate medical care without risk of saturation of health facilities. The review of the decisions taken by the National Assembly shows that we could probably have taken other decisions or of a different scale. The explanatory memorandum of the bill invokes "uncertainties related to the evolution of the health situation" to renew for four months, for the benefit of the Prime Minister, the power to restrict, for the purpose of preserving public health, the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms such as freedom of movement, freedom of assembly and freedom to demonstrate. Fundamental freedoms are being violated. As Professor of Law Stéphanie Hennette-Vauchez pointed out, this text reinforces super-administrative police authorities with exorbitant powers. The Senate, for its part, has proposed a more balanced and acceptable text, the most questionable aspects of which have been erased. In the Joint Joint Committee, the majority opposed this balance. Some contributions from the Senate were maintained, such as the abolition of the regime of prior authorization of demonstrations, a regime of limitation that the Council of State itself had called into question. The Socialist and related group will vote against this bill, which does not organise an exit from the state of emergency, but which strengthens a state of emergency. In other words, it is an extension that does not say his name. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I will end by quoting a philosopher who is familiar to us. Montesquieu claimed that "unnecessary laws weaken the necessary laws". It is in order not to forget this maxim full of wisdom that the figure of Montesquieu is represented at the four corners of the National Assembly. This has obviously not been enough, since we are called upon to vote again on a text which, without bringing more efficiency, introduces a regime of weakening freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u38	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u39	In listening to Mrs Karamanli, I recalled our discussions after the attacks: we had voted for exceptional emergency measures on several occasions. The substantive debate is always the same: where do public freedoms end with regard to health security? No one holds the truth and it is not obvious to place the cursor. We are going through an unprecedented and exceptional period on a global scale, which is of great concern. The famous second wave remains a pregnant possibility in the thoughts of our fellow citizens, even in the overseas territories. As such, we must continue to be careful, constantly reminding ourselves of the obstacles, while at the same time allowing the economy to recover. Regarding these gestures, when I arrived in Paris on 20 June on a flight of territorial continuity, after several months of confinement in my territory, I was somewhat surprised to see so much lightness. It felt good, but I was surprised to see so many people walking around without masks and without respecting distancing. The return to a certain normality is human, but what a danger! For the holidays to go well, it will be necessary to mobilize and communicate as much as possible to ensure that the barrier actions are respected. To do so, the State must have the means to intervene. On the substance, the debate surrounding this text is simple: did we need it? The laws we have passed already make it possible to act. I will not mention again article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, as Mrs Karamanli has read. It contains everything that is necessary for the Minister of Health to take urgent action in the event of a health threat. At the first reading, the rapporteur explained to us that the state of emergency applied when the disaster was declared; As long as it isn't, we can't activate the state of emergency. The basic question is: Why did we not simply change this article and allow a state of emergency to be declared from the point of threat, confirmed by a disaster situation? I am pragmatic in nature: we must be able to do so tomorrow, if necessary, with respect for each other's rights and with respect for Parliament's control. This last point is a source of regret to me: it is the whole difference between this text and the framework of the state of emergency. There is a feeling that we are deciding tonight on a state of lightened emergency; You have to take care of it. Three provisions are again included in this text: restrictions on freedom of movement, restrictions on the freedom to assemble, and the possibility of regulating the opening and closing of establishments. The Prime Minister is allowed to intervene in these areas at any time until the end of October. Was that necessary? Many colleagues think they don't. The Senate rejected this text; I regret that, because on such a matter, it would have been good to unite us. The majority of the IDU and independent groups will vote against the bill. The situation is different for ultramarine MPs, particularly those in the overseas communities where jurisdiction is shared: they have control over the competence of health and the measures that are entrusted to the High Commissioners in this text cannot be applied without consultation. This item was discussed during the previous discussion of the text in the meeting. Thank you for paying a little attention to it. I hope that in the next text clarifying and framing this right, we will be able to go further and find practical and technical solutions to oil the workings between the State and the communities of New Caledonia and French Polynesia. Mechanisms will need to be identified to improve the interaction between the jurisdiction of the State and that of the territories. In any event, the ultramarine members of the IDU and independent group will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u40	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u41	As we take a final look at the bill to move out of the state of emergency, which has been rejected by the Senate, it is the concern that dominates within the Liberties and Territories group. On 21 March, 90% of MEPs voted in favour of a text aimed at protecting our fellow citizens from the epidemic and at enabling health services to cope with the surge of patients, particularly in saturated resuscitation services. To stop the spread of the virus, we agreed to let the executive take strong decisions, some of which were particularly restrictive of freedoms. Today, the situation is different. The Scientific Council covid-19 has made it clear that the epidemic is under control. Of course, as everyone here has pointed out, we must be cautious about a possible resurgence of the virus. In fact, we see these and these homes appear; Even if we are able to isolate them, under no circumstances should we lift custody. However, the three-month exception regime is no longer relevant. The common law is perfectly armed to respond to a second wave if it reaches the country. As Minister Olivier Véran said, we could operate the state of emergency system, which now appears in positive law. I refer you to article L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code. [[Brouhahaha]] Why should we want to put in place a transitional mechanism that is disproportionate to the situation and which is not necessary in view of the state of ordinary law? Colleagues, could you make less noise? It would be good if you concentrated more! Remember, when we voted for a state of emergency following the terrorist attacks, prefects had ordered searches, including of environmental activists who opposed the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport and citizens opposed to the labour law. The French have made a great deal of effort and sacrifice in recent weeks. We cannot continue to undermine social peace, which remains fragile, by allowing the Government to arrogate powers that restrict freedoms. The Senate itself tells you to stop. It is time to resume the course of our existence and to stop infantilizing our fellow citizens. The time has come for responsibility: that of the French, by applying the barrier gestures; that of Parliament, by rejecting transitional measures which are liberal and unnecessary in the current context; Finally, that of the Government, which must focus on recovery. You want to introduce this new emergency regime that doesn't say its name until October 30th. Why this date? Why more than three months after the end of the state of emergency? Although we are opposed to your text, we have proposed the date of 30 September, which seems reasonable in view of the timetable for parliamentary work. [[Persistent Brouhaha]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text undermines our understanding of what democracy and the rule of law should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u42	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u43	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] To those who invite us to trust the Government, I mean that the separation of powers involves the collaboration of powers, not the abandonment of powers! Let us reflect on Montesquieu's sentence: "Freedom is the right to do whatever the laws permit". The laws should only be touched with extreme caution. Democracy is complex, fragile, deadly. Unfortunately, with this text, you are taking us on a path that we refuse to follow. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group is unanimously opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u44	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u45	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u46	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u47	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 50 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u48	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 3074, 3132).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u49	We are looking at the second part of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020. Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u50	I'll only do a reminder shot tonight, but it's not bad to do it from time to time – they're like several identical ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a wall of amendments concerning appropriations. We could set ourselves the objective of considering them by the end of the session. This is not impossible, especially since many of them are outside the scope of a bill to amend finance of this nature – even though they are certainly part of a finance bill. However, some are directly related to the text: these alone could be the subject of discussion – of course this is part of your decision. We could, if you agree, set us such a goal, so that we can have in-depth discussions tomorrow on Articles 17 and 18, as well as on the amendments to the additional article after Article 18, which are extremely important for the recovery of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u52	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u53	This draft law on amending finance grants Presstalis nearly EUR 200 million in the form of grants and a loan from the Economic and Social Development Fund. Presstalis declared itself at the end of payment. This is the company's third crisis in ten years, after 2012 and 2018. The State has always mobilized to help him. [[Mr. Michel Lauzzana applauds]] In the south-east, 1000 distributors are dying, stifled by Presstalis' refusal to take over the unsold, a refusal assumed by his new director, whom the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education auditioned about ten days ago, as well as by the blocking of a deposit in Marseille, which has deprived distributors of newspapers and magazines for eight weeks. I have tabled three amendments to support these 1000 press distributors. I appeal to the sense of responsibility of the general book and written communication union CGT, which blocks any distribution. Minister for Action and Public Accounts, please know that 20% of the people's press sells on the shores of the Mediterranean during the summer. It is unworthy that Presstalis' aid is not at least conditional on the obligation to bail out the cash of the distributors, by taking over the unsold ones. We are in 2020, Presstalis is not obliged to take over the paper, but should get a list of unsold and credit the accounts of those claimants who have not asked for anything, who have just experienced the crisis of the covid-19 and who are going through a strike by its employees. The lack of recovery of the unsold people has led to their cash flow and the situation is all the more inextricable as the press is not distributed. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u54	Isn't that a little long? It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u55	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Marguerite Deprez-Audebert also applauds]] Mr Woerth, I do not understand why you refused to package the aid, when it did not cost the state any money.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u56	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u57	We come to Article 9 and, above all, to Statement B, which opens up appropriations. The Government has tabled several amendments to this article. Amendment No 2398 aims at creating a festival support fund of EUR 10 million; That's very good, and that's what we've been proposing since the first amending finance bill was examined. Amendment No 2399 provides for financial support for the press: that is very well, that is what we have been proposing since the examination of the second amending finance bill. Amendment No 2073 seeks to implement a support plan for book companies: again, that is very good, that is what we proposed when we considered the first amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u58	We're gonna be happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u59	Finally, the Government's amendment No. 2401 provides for a plan to support food aid actors, which we wanted to integrate into the first draft of the Financial Reform Bill. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] What a waste of time and anxiety for the actors in the cultural sector and the charitable sector!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u60	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u61	[[Long protests on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Why do you have to go to the CGT like this, Mrs Mauborgne? You should have auditioned her, too! I met the employees in Marseille; They work from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. to organize the distribution of newspapers throughout southern France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u62	What a shame! Go see the situation on the spot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u63	You should listen to me instead of yelling like angry unionists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u64	It's like the CGT!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u65	The employees of Presstalis want only one thing: to be able to continue to do their job,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u67	... within the framework of a cooperative society of collective interest, a SCIC, on the project from which they worked, and in an area encompassing Nice, Avignon, Marseille and Toulon. So it's not just a question of money: the stake is to have a viable perimeter for the cooperative they propose to build. [[Protests on certain benches of the LaREM group]] The only thing they expect is the organization, by the prefect, of a round table bringing together the co-operative couriers of the daily, the major publishers, the printers, the press carriers, the unions of depositaries and broadcasters, La Poste, the mayors, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u68	Piss off!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u69	There are 1200 kiosks in danger, and 4 million people find themselves without newspapers. The blockage is due to the lack of dialogue. If this were to be done, a solution would be found, because the employees are only waiting to work and organize the distribution of the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u70	We come to the amendments. The Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor to support Amendment No. 2423.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u71	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u72	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u73	The Government's amendment is in line with an amendment adopted by the Finance Committee on the proposal of Mrs Emilie Bonnivard. The Government proposes to abound the appropriations of Atout France by €5 million. So he goes a little further than you asked, Mrs. Bonnivard. I am voting in favour of this amendment and will therefore ask you, Mrs Bonnivard, to withdraw those you have tabled when we consider them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u74	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u75	I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for his attentive attention following my report on the tourism budget. I also thank the offices of Jean-Yves Le Drian and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne. The alert I had issued was heard. The Government supports my request by this amendment, which aims to grant an additional €5 million to the budget of Atout France, which is the main operator of the promotion of tourism in France. Why is it important to give him this budget right now? Atout France will lose a significant part of its revenue. It is indeed EUR 5 million in visa fees which, every year, abound the budget for tourism promotion. These rights, which come mainly from Chinese customers, are obviously falling sharply this year. In addition, funding provided by private partners, including Air France and Club Med, accounts for more than half of Atout France's resources; It is likely that these companies will reduce their contribution this year. The aim is to relaunch the promotion of tourism in France. This summer, the promotion campaign within our country will be wider than expected, because, in addition to the digital campaign, there will be a television set. Promotion operations for our European neighbours will also be relaunched for the autumn and winter, as our country has a large clientele. We therefore anticipate a high need for promotion; With these additional appropriations, the operator will be able to act in this direction despite the deterioration of its budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u76	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1813, 1238 and 1638, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 1238 and 1638 are identical. Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1813.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u77	I am also defending this amendment on behalf of my colleagues Frédéric Petit, Anne Genetet and Amélia Lakrafi. With this amendment, we call for the creation of a specific budget line in order to facilitate the control of the additional EUR 50 million grant granted to the Agency for French Education Abroad, the AEFE. This €50 million is intended to help schools survive and support parents. However, the budget line currently used does not make it possible to control the proper use of this sum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u78	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 1238.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u79	Together with my colleague Samantha Cazebonne and other representatives of the French abroad, we are working, in liaison with the Government, to strengthen the financial capacity of AEFE in this difficult period. The Government has been pleased to provide €50 million to this structure, which manages the 522 French schools abroad, in order to maintain its network and outreach worldwide. Together with my colleagues Frédéric Petit and Samantha Cazebonne, we would like to closely monitor the use of these funds. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u80	Amendment No 1638 by Mr Frédéric Petit is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u81	I would like to make a small point about the method, because President Woerth's request has not been acted upon. If we wish, we can look at all the amendments on the opening of appropriations during this sitting – we have an hour and a quarter ahead of us. We will then have some 1000 amendments to consider, so that tomorrow's day and night will be very long. We are well aware that the amendments to appropriations are in fact amendments designed to draw the Government's attention to a subject. We could therefore set ourselves the following rule: when there are identical amendments, only one speaker defends them; My answers will be very quick and will consist of asking for the amendments to be withdrawn, without any explanation. The Government will then respond. It will save us time. I therefore call for the three amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u83	Mrs Cazebonne, Mr El Guerrab, we agree on the substance, since the Government has released EUR 50 million for AEFE, at the request of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs and his Secretary of State. We also announced the opening of this envelope at a conference call in which you participated, as representatives of the French abroad. I don't think the specific program you're asking for is a good solution. I understand that you want to control the use of the funds released by the Government, but it is not necessary to create a temporary programme to do so, since it concerns a crisis budget, and is intended to control 50 million euros, that is to say, a sum which is not negligible but nevertheless not significant in relation to the State budget. In addition, the creation of such a programme would increase the budget model. The money's been unlocked. The plan proposed by Jean-Yves Le Drian is a high amount and has seduced our compatriots living abroad. I ask you to trust the Government, which will, of course, report on the use of these funds. As Minister for Action and Public Accounts, I have participated in the decision-making process with the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, and you can be assured that the €50 million envelope will be well paid to those for whom it is intended. I am therefore also asking for the amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u84	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor to support Amendment No. 817.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u85	It aims to increase the social assistance envelope. The Government has released a large emergency special fund of €50 million for French foreigners in difficult situations, several tens or hundreds of thousands of which could be forced to return brutally to France. It is difficult to estimate the amount needed for this envelope, but it should reflect the action of France, i.e. the allocation of EUR 150 per household, plus EUR 100 per family. However, the amount is not appropriate for what is happening abroad. Monitoring and evaluation are needed, and we rely heavily on the Government to help us carry them out. In the meantime, the envelope should be increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u87	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u89	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u90	I withdraw the amendment, but I am counting on the Government to provide the necessary information on this social assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u91	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1162.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u92	The health crisis forced the repatriation of 260,000 French people stranded abroad. Our diplomatic posts have been overwhelmed by telephone calls, some of which have been diverted to France. The amendment aims to create a telephone call centre – which, moreover, is already under consideration in the draft budget for 2021, but whose development needs to be speeded up, hence the request for €5 million in appropriations: it is only a matter of giving a boost to a project that is already in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u94	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u95	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u96	Your intervention follows the report that the Government has ordered you concerning the French abroad. The planned experiment was postponed due to the covid -19; It would be better to carry it out before adopting any appropriations to implement the measure you call for. Even if I am in favour of it in principle, I would therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u97	Either, I withdraw it, but the experiment has already been done, in vivo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u98	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2176 and 1462. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 2176.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u99	I cannot withdraw this amendment from the committee, but I am expressing an unfavourable opinion since we have just adopted the Government's amendment No. 2423.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u100	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1796.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u101	[[Ms. Maina Sage and Mr. Aina Kuric and Mr. M的jid El Guerrab applaud]] Let me take a few moments to discuss the situation of the French abroad: most often we do not ask for much, but sometimes we like to be heard. The Government and Parliament have been able to take steps to support our compatriots, businesses and associations, among others. But we are close to 4 million French people living abroad and some suffer a lot, especially within the cultural network. French alliances and French institutes, staff and members of associations make the French language radiate every day and contribute to our diplomacy of influence; in some countries, for example Spain and Portugal in my constituency, they are already in great difficulty. Some institutions will soon be forced to close without support from national solidarity. These alliances and institutes cost almost nothing to France because they are close to self-financing; on the other hand, they pay him a great deal by contributing to his radiation. I therefore ask you to help these women and men, strongly affected by the crisis of the Covid-19, to keep this network alive. If the French alliances close for lack of support, a little of the French culture and language in the world will be extinguished.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u102	The defence of an amendment must not exceed two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u104	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u106	Request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable notice. Madam Member, your amendment concerns an amount of EUR 2.5 million: we should be able to finance this action by means of a budgetary redeployment, if the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs agrees to your request. The crisis of the covid -19 certainly generates a lot of compulsory expenditure but also a lot of savings of observation: all the ministries will experience it. I assume that this EUR 2.5 million will be found in the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, if the minister agrees on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u107	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1803.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u108	France and the Government have just made a considerable effort in favour of French families who enrol their children in the French school network abroad. Contrary to what is happening in the national territory, however, some of these families are completely immune to the effects of our solidarity: they are those whose children have a disability. As part of the budget increase for the award of French school scholarships, I ask you to ensure that families in need receive assistance to finance the employment of an accompanying student with disabilities – AESH.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u110	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u112	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u113	Amendment No 1793 by Mrs Samantha Cazebonne is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u114	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor to support Amendment No. 818.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u115	This very small amendment concerns employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have been blocked in France. It aims to get them to recover their entire salary, rather than using a solidarity fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u117	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u119	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u120	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 905.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u121	It aims to highlight and address the terrible situation of farmers. According to an INSEE report, 20% of farmers reported zero income in 2017, or even a farm deficit; 20 per cent live below the poverty line. A farmer kills himself every day – you probably know that. In this context, the food aid provided by the Government seems to us to be very much inadequate. In April 2020, Ms Dubos, Secretary of State for the fight against poverty, had announced the release of an envelope of 39 million, including 14 million for the establishment of emergency cheques in the amount of 105 euros per unit for 100,000 households. It's not enough for us. Our amendment is intended to present to you again the measures contained in our bill of 12 May to deal with the food crisis. This is a €1.7 billion programme, in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, deployed as follows: €217 million comes from Action 21, €5 million from Action 22, €127 million from Action 23, and so on. The whole is an ambitious plan for farmers, whose role is indispensable, to face the upcoming crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u123	Request for withdrawal in favour of the forthcoming Government's amendment No. 2401, which devotes 94 million credits to the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities": the 39 million initially allocated are added to 55 million for food aid. Otherwise, it will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u125	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u126	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Corbière?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u127	No. The amount envisaged seems to us to be insufficient in view of the situation of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u128	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 1639.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u129	It aims to introduce a social premium on investment for collective restoration in direct management. It is in line with the EGALIM law: it is a question of promoting practices of vegetation of food, the fight against the use of plastics and against food waste. This measure enables certain municipalities to be accompanied in fragile territories and complements the poverty plan and the European programme. We count on your consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u131	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u133	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u134	Amendment No 867 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u135	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1871.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u136	It is intended to finance a support plan for refuges and animal protection associations which could not benefit from the aid provided for employers' associations. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u138	I'm referring to the shelter decree. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u140	Same opinion. We have opened 19 million in PLFR 2 to act in this direction. I am also in contact with animal protection associations; It does not appear that this is insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u141	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u142	I keep it because not all associations are covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u143	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1120 and 1254. Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1120.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u144	It was tabled by Mrs Ericka Bareigts and signed by almost all the ultramarine elected officials. During his visit to La Réunion in October, the President of the Republic announced the creation of an action fund for the overseas agricultural strategy and agro-processing, stating that the fund would reach €45 million by 2020. However, during the review of the finance bill for 2020, the fund of the Overseas Interministerial Committee – CIOM – was not re-aligned with the additional €5 million corresponding to this announcement, although several members of the Government confirmed that it would be. To date, the budget line concerned is still EUR 40 million. The two previous amending finance bills have not solved the problem. The ultramarine agricultural, food and fishing sectors have proven their ability to mobilize during the sharp slowdown in air and sea freight and the risk of shortages, thanks to the structuring process initiated by certain sectors for several decades. Their mobilization has once again demonstrated their indispensable role for the food security of our ultramarine compatriots. The first half of the year ends and the sectors find themselves in a more precarious situation, with the ceiling on agricultural production being limited, in fact, by the inadequacy of the fund in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u145	Amendment No 1254 by Lorion is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u146	The Minister of Agriculture and Food – I refer you to the announcements he made on December 3rd in the Senate – said that the €5 million supplement corresponding to the difference between the amounts of €45 million and €40 million comes from the Ministry of Overseas Affairs to the tune of €3 million and from the Ministry of Labour to the amount of €2 million. I refer you to the announcements he made in the Senate on December 3. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u148	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u149	Mrs Manin, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u150	Yes, because this is an amendment by Mrs Bareigts. Moreover, overseas farmers would not understand that we are going backwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u151	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 864 and 889. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 864.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u152	This amendment by our colleague François Pupponi aims to increase by EUR 200 million the appropriations allocated to action 01 of programme 109 on aid for access to housing. With this appeal amendment, we call for the outright abolition of the reform of personal housing assistance – APL. Indeed, the Government has taken the decision to shift the implementation of the so-called "real-time APL" reform scheduled for 1 April. After the many delays in the reform, it is time to cancel this measure, which will deprive more than 600,000 households of this aid. In order to ensure the financial admissibility of the amendment, it is proposed that the appropriations for action 04 of programme 135 be reduced accordingly, even if we obviously wish the Government to raise the pledge so as not to penalise programme 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u153	Amendment No 889 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u154	Unfavorable opinion: I do not wish to go back to the project of contemporaneization of the APLs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u155	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 866.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u156	This is again an amendment proposed by François Pupponi. The health crisis severely penalizes the 11 per cent of French citizens who receive social minimums or who have low wages. These families face additional costs, such as the closure of canteens, and are faced with a significant increase in their expenses, even though they are often experiencing income declines. Moreover, this is also the case for small traders whose activity has been interrupted. The amendment aims to increase the payment appropriations and commitment authorisations for Action 01 of Programme 109 by EUR 200 million – with a corresponding reduction in the appropriations for Action 04 of Programme 135, even if we obviously want the Government to raise the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u158	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u159	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 1396.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u160	By this amendment, we call on the Government to extend the winter truce in order to prohibit evictions until 31 October, while at the same time compensating donors for the loss of rent. The President of the Republic has already extended the winter truce until 10 July, in a few days. Poverty is increasing sharply as a result of the pandemic, particularly in our region, Minister. At the same time, the accommodation structures are engulfed. We therefore call for the winter truce to be extended and for the donor compensation fund to be abounded by EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u162	Beyond July 10, the date of the end of the winter truce, Minister Julien Denormandie undertook to impose by a circular which should be published next week that evictions can only be pronounced when there is a possibility of operational relocation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u164	On the form, Mr Roussel, it is not the Ministry responsible for housing that compensates for litigation, but the Ministry of the Interior. So you are not aiming for the right budget programme. On the substance, regardless of the fact that the explanatory memorandum provides for the extension of the truce, whereas the amendment itself provides for additional appropriations, the majority and the Government do not have to be ashamed of their action. The majority voted under the PLFR 2, 880 million in appropriations, including an increase in social benefits for 4.1 million households. As a first step, these benefits were paid in advance of the planned 5th day of the month. At the request of the Government, Action Logement has also made available funds to assist all tenants facing difficulties. Everyone was able to see this – especially, Mr. MP, those who are at work on the ground as you are at Saint-Amand-les-Eaux. The Government has therefore responded to your request, particularly with regard to the most difficult people. For both formal reasons – these are neither the right credits nor the right abundances – and for fundamental reasons – the Government's policy in favour of the poorest – I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u165	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 2111.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u166	With this appeal amendment, we want to convince you that it is cheaper to install a person in a dwelling rather than to put it back on the street. During the crisis of the Covid-19, 177,600 people were and still are accommodated, thanks to the extension of the winter truce until 10 July. For many households, however, this deadline means the end of their care, thus breaking the accompaniment and questioning their inclusion. It is at this pivotal moment that the calculation must be made. Take the example of a Frenchman whose business has gone bankrupt, who divorces and finds himself on the street, then develops problems of health, addiction and psychiatry and goes three or four times a month to the hospital by killing the UAS, firefighters and emergency services. If, instead of sleeping on the street, this person is housed in a stable group housing with appropriate social support, he or she will not go to the hospital. In other words, sustainable measures must be taken for the homeless and the isolated. It is a social prevention measure that represents savings for the State and the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u168	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u170	I share your concern, Madam Member, as do, I believe, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister responsible for housing. You are right on the merits, regardless of the arguments of humanity: it costs less. However, the Government's three-year housing policy is based on a steady increase in funding. We have completed the budget discussions on the preparation of the 2021 budget: you will see that these increases in appropriations are very important, both for the programmes under the Ministry of Housing and for those under the Ministry of the Interior. In this connection, I would point out that the PLFR 2, which you voted for, already provides for 200 million euros of additional appropriations and the release of 170,000 places, when we are in summer and the confinement is over, and in circumstances where – whatever the difficulties of the people to stay – fewer applications and arrivals to the national territory are registered, as a result of the crisis of the covid-19. It does not seem to me, therefore, that the approximately 80 million euros you are proposing to allocate – which are not covered by the state budget – are now a necessity requiring an urgent response. You will see that the increase is very large in the appropriations for the year 2021. It has been arbitrated both by the Minister for Action and Public Accounts and by the Minister for Housing and the Minister for the Interior, and seems to me to respond to the philosophy that guides your argument. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u171	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u172	This amendment by Raphaël Gérard follows the mobilization of deputies from all sides to help LGBT youth – lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender – victims of violence during confinement. It aims to provide specific funds to adapt the implementation of the shelter scheme for young LGBT victims of domestic violence throughout the national territory, particularly in ultramarine territories where the weight of the family is extremely high. Today, an association like Orizon, in La Réunion, does not have the resources to advance the financing of hotel nights. The amendment also aims to ensure the sustainability of the funding of such a mechanism with a view to setting up in each department a partnership agreement, led by the devolved State services, which would involve local authorities, integrated reception and guidance services – SIAO –, local LGBT associations and operators specializing in the accommodation and social support of families, in order to draw up a protocol to protect young LGBT people in situations of family breakdown or victims of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u174	I call for the withdrawal – failing that – of this EUR 150000 amendment, even though I understand the idea of alerting the LGBT population during the crisis, which we mentioned during the first two PLFRs. Measures have been implemented and welcomed. The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination, Marlène Schiappa, had recalled the 6,000 hotel nights made available during the confinement, for an amount of 300,000 euros. It is also worth mentioning the work of the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred – DILCRAH – during this period, as well as the distress mechanisms you know, including the 114 and the network of pharmacists deployed during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u175	The Government's amendment No. 2398 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u176	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1675 and 1676, which can be presented together. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u177	I welcome the adoption of the previous amendment, which opens up new appropriations for the Culture Mission. With these amendments by President Genevard, we propose that you go further, particularly on the basis of the observations made by the Court of Auditors in its report on the 2019 budget. She explained that the growth of the Culture Pass was slow and that only 17% of young people who could benefit from its experimentation in fourteen departments had shown interest. It is therefore proposed that the funds – in Amendment No 1675, towards a fund to support all cultural actors for EUR 50 million, and in Amendment No 1676, towards a newly created fund to support independent groups, which are in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u179	I am very committed to the Culture Pass initiative. I therefore issue a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u180	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2143, 2134, 2144 and 2140, which can be presented together. Mrs Dominique David has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u181	These amendments are intended to support the living spectacle, which is very affected by the crisis. According to a Government study published today, 70 per cent of the sector's turnover was lost during the months of confinement. But this is not over, since most of these rooms will still operate for a long time in a reduced gauge. Amendment No 2143 – to which I associate my colleague Mr Aurore Bergé – is an appeal amendment which highlights the difficulties encountered by the actors of the live show and recalls that the national fund for sustainable employment in the show – FONPEPS – is a proven tool to support artistic creation and employment. To adapt it to the context of a degraded recovery, we propose to decorate part of the allocation of aid to small rooms of the size of the theatres, to adapt it rather to their filling rate, in order to gently accompany the recovery of the living show sector. In the same spirit, there is an urgent need to promote live entertainment this summer, when it usually occurs at festivals that are cancelled this year. Amendment No 2134 aims to ensure that during the summer, we would reconnect everywhere in France with the ancient tradition of trestles by setting up scenes in the street, wherever there are closed courses in the city, and that, together with local authorities, the construction and equipment of scenes for artists who can no longer play normally in their usual rooms could be financed. Amendment No 2144 is intended to address the concern of theatres and companies that benefit from the emergency fund for live entertainment. It is essential to extend this arrangement, initially planned to cover a period of ten weeks corresponding to the beginning of the crisis, until the theatres are actually reopened in normal gauge. Finally, Amendment No 2140 – I count, Mr rapporteur-general, that you will support it! – is a call for action to strengthen the useful and powerful mechanism of the Culture Pass for the revival of the cultural sector and support for the territories. The enlargement of the Culture pass from 14 to 57 departments was delayed by the crisis, but this time was not lost, since it enabled us to develop a better interface and a solution that better meets the expectations of the users. I propose that you generalize the Culture pass from this year onwards to all departments, especially since this generalisation would not require an abundance of the budget of the company which manages it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u183	I share your willingness to support the Culture pass and to go further in this area, but if it is only a question of appropriations – in this case 2 million – we will achieve this without difficulty at the end of the management, if necessary. I therefore ask you to withdraw these amendments even though I am as enthusiastic about this initiative as you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u186	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u187	I would like to take advantage of the examination of these very interesting amendments to draw your attention to the question of financial representatives of orchestras, since the amendment which I tabled on this subject was considered inadmissible. They expressed their dismay at the cascading cancellations of the shows and concerts that should have taken place on the occasion of the local holidays, in the Midi as well as elsewhere – including Brittany, to please Mr Le Fur. These orchestras, which are a pillar of the traditional and popular festivals of our cities and villages, are in great difficulty to the point that they fear eventually to disappear. They are not incorporated but are directly employed by the associations or communities employing them. As such, they have not been able to benefit from partial unemployment, hence their current difficulties. It is important to support them so that the territories can enjoy for a long time the musical talents that make our country rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u188	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u189	I obviously support the amendments made by our colleague Dominique David. I thank the Government for the amendment that we have just adopted, which will help to support both very fragile public institutions and festivals. However, the urgency of the situation requires us to go further. In particular, I would like to stress the interest of the amendment, which aims to abound by EUR 1 million – we have been able to remain reasonable in our requests – the emergency fund for live entertainment. It is essential to support theatres, spaces and cultural places in all territories. This is also the identity of our country, the richness and diversity of our territories. Now they need our support. I therefore believe that the House could, in the interests of cultural places, adopt these amendments, in particular point 2144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u190	Do you maintain your amendments, Mrs. David?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u191	I maintain Amendment No 2144 on the emergency fund and withdraw the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u192	I have before me two amendments, Nos 971 and 1139, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 971.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u193	This amendment, of which the first signatory is President Valérie Rabault, aims to increase the means of the High Council for Climate, an independent consultative body that you created in November 2018 and which issued its first report, entitled "Acting in line with ambitions" in 2019. The number of full-time equivalents now stands at eight, which is insufficient to cover all the issues on which it is consulted, not to mention that it will also be responsible for evaluating draft legislation that should be presented in line with the recommendations of the Citizens' Climate Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u194	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1139.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u195	I would first like to regret, ladies and gentlemen, that only the Socialist Group has taken up the amendment which the EDS Group has tabled before the Committee on Finance on a subject which concerns us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u196	It's called freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u197	The President of the Republic made a good decision by establishing the High Climate Council. Much is being asked of this very important body in the current period: in particular, it has the task of informing public decisions on strategic choices, including stimulus. But she can't afford to do her job. In the United Kingdom, the comparable organization employs 24 FTEs, compared to 6 in France. Mr Minister, is it planned, in the context of the current budgetary arbitrations, to strengthen the capacity of the High Climate Council?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u199	The solution is not to adopt these amendments, but to eventually obtain information on the additional resources requested by the President of the High Council. Hence a request for withdrawal at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u201	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u202	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2404.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u203	This is an important amendment since it tends to spend an additional 100 million appropriations on the financing of the 'MaPrimeRenov' scheme which you voted for, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u204	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u205	You remember that during the preparatory work for the 2020 budget, we had a debate on the energy transition tax credit, the ISCED, and on the desirability of transforming it into a premium, in accordance with the presidential programme, many of you wondered whether Bercy was not considering such a transformation of a favourable energy renovation scheme with the aim of achieving budgetary savings. I assured you that this was not the case, that the tax credit was not a financing insurance and that the budgetary appropriations were just as much, if not more, controlled by parliamentarians. In terms of its ecological and social objectives, the premium is much more effective than the tax credit because it benefits the least favoured deciles. By mid-June, 47725 files had been filed and funding was lacking. For this reason, the Government is taking advantage of this amending finance bill to have 100 million euros of additional appropriations voted, pending the end of the management, proving both that this mechanism put in place by the Government and the majority is simpler, more social, more ecological and that this transformation of the tax credit into budgetary appropriations was not intended to save money but to increase the financing of a functioning system. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore with great pride that the Government proposes this amendment to you, at the request of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u207	This echoes the long debate we had at the beginning of the week: this amendment is in line with the plan to transform ISCED into "MaPrimeRenov". This new approach must be encouraged, even if it is to be reconsidered at the time of the revival, to determine the categories in which priority should be given to optimizing its incentive effects for the construction and energy renovation sectors of buildings. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u208	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u209	While we did reject the amendments on ISCED on Monday, we will vote in favour of this Government amendment as it is in the right direction. I had also expressed my agreement with the transformation of the tax credit into a premium, since a tax credit was still collected one year late. Having said that, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, we can go even further, as would be possible from the climate premium proposal presented to you by Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout, which combines grants and advances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u210	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment 127 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u211	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 2054.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u212	This amendment takes up the proposal of the Citizens' Convention to increase the appropriations for bicycles from EUR 50 million to EUR 200 million per year to finance the deployment of bicycle paths. This additional 150 million would be taken out of the portion of the increase in conversion premiums for fossil-fuelled vehicles. In short, it is a matter of transferring 150 million euros from fossil fuels to bicycles, in accordance with the citizens' convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u214	We also discussed at length the relevance of the bicycle fund. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for significantly increasing the allocation of the bike plan, with the aim of financing 100,000 repairs by the end of the year, which we can only welcome. We are on the right track: the system is working and the credits are on the right track. Hence a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u216	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u217	The minister doesn't give a present!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u218	Do you really want to speak again on the amendment, Mrs Batho?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u219	It seems to me that I have the right, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u220	It's true, but there was a collective contract...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u221	We're not in commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u222	I can hear you, but there are other subjects that have taken a little more time! I cannot accept an answer that amounts to pretending that the citizens' climate convention says things wrong! If the citizens' climate convention says that 50 to 200 million euros are missing, it is that these credits are missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u223	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 2036.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u224	This amendment by my colleague Matthieu Orphelin tends to set aside EUR 50 million for the conversion premium to replace no longer a car with a car, but a car with a bicycle or a subscription to a public transport service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u226	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u228	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u229	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 2037.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u230	It is also the result of a proposal from the Citizens' Climate Convention, and aims to introduce a zero-rate loan for the purchase of clean vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u231	You are not a signatory to this amendment, Mrs Batho.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u232	I'm a co-signatory and he's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u233	Amendment No 903 by Mr Jean-Louis Bricout is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u234	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2378 and 2379, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u235	I will defend these two appeal amendments before withdrawing them. Amendment No 2378 seeks to reorient appropriations in order to extend the principle of the premium to conversion. The aim is to create a conversion bonus for small aircraft used to train pilots in aeroclubs so that they can be equipped with low environmental and noise footprints. This is an industrial issue, since France does not produce electric aircraft. The French Aeronautics Federation acquired a Slovenian prototype stationed at the Tousus-le-Noble airfield – which some colleagues from the Democratic and Related Movement group risked to use, without damage. It is also, of course, an environmental issue, as well as a public health issue related to noise pollution. On the other hand, Amendment No 2379 seeks to extend the principle of the premium to conversion to refrigerated trucks from food banks. This is also an industrial but also an environmental issue – food banks are key players in the fight against waste and for re-employment – and social ones, since these banks are in high demand at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u237	As the idea is not yet mature enough, I ask that these amendments be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u239	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u240	Amendment No 1957 by Mr Guillaume Garot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u241	The Government's amendment No. 2409 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u242	Favourable: The aim of this amendment is to strengthen the resources allocated to operators responsible for supporting exporting companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u243	Amendment No 1326 by Mrs Olivia Gregoire is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u244	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1156.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u245	The amendment that you tabled, Madam President, is intended to broaden the spectrum of sectoral plans – now reserved for automobiles and aeronautics – to include creative industries. A "Creative Industries" fund would thus be dedicated to strengthening the high profile of ETIs, SMEs and fashion and luxury subcontractors. In order to compensate for the fall in their assigned tax revenues, this amendment also provides for an exceptional budget allocation to be allocated to two professional economic development committees – the DEFI, the clothing development and promotion committee, and Franc blève – associated with the fashion and luxury sector strategic committee, to enable them to deploy collective actions in accordance with their objectives and performance contracts. As a reminder, the creative industries include the furniture, table arts, jewellery, leather, fashion, clothing and watchmaking industries. They represent 135,000 jobs in 20,000 companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u247	We dealt with the industrial technical centres earlier. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. We will make a point, at the end of the management, of these centres which are important for recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u249	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u250	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u251	I support the President in this excellent amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u252	[[Smile]] Don't prolong the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u253	[[Smile]] If everyone talks, we're not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u254	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2377 and 2374, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 2377.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u255	Tabled by Mr Paul Christophe, it aims to transfer EUR 15 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations from Action 05 "Leading the statistical programme and economic studies" to a new programme "Fonds de soutien aux industriesnautiques".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u256	I call Mr Buchou to support Amendment No. 2374.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u257	It aims to support the nautical industry. After two months of shutdown, the 5500 companies in this sector are approaching the next season in a very fragile situation. If a half-tone recovery begins, a high risk weighs on these companies whose activity is both highly seasonal and highly dependent on tourism and export – 75% of the French production of boats is exported. Therefore, in the face of the announced recession in European markets, particularly in the Mediterranean area, and in North America, it is necessary to create a support fund to safeguard the 45,000 jobs in this sector, whose major construction sites allow France to climb among the best in the world and to have a fabric of SMEs with unique know-how. The vitality and economy of many territories, including the coastal regions – like my Vendée department – depend heavily on it. This would therefore be a relatively limited financial support – 0.3% of the sector's turnover – which would certainly be of capital benefit to companies. Finally, Patricia Lemoine has just explained how this fund would be funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u258	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u259	We have already discussed contingency plans for the nautical industry. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u261	The Government supports the nautical industry, particularly as part of the recovery plan deployed by the Minister of Economy and Finance. I would point out that the partial activity will apply to it until September, which is not the case in all sectors. The nautical industry also benefits from exemptions on a case-by-case basis and from the solidarity fund. So it is not abandoned. As you pointed out, it is of great importance in terms of employment and the vitality of the territories. It seems to us, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, that the above-mentioned aids do not allow any additional arrangements to be included in PLFR 3, pending the recovery law which was mentioned in the general discussion. I therefore ask for these amendments to be withdrawn, even if my opinion is in principle favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u262	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1327.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u263	Presented by Ms Olivia Gregoire, it aims to support information campaigns of consular networks, public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation and departments, in order to encourage the resumption of consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u265	We have already mentioned the communication campaigns planned to support businesses and strengthen their attractiveness, in particular with Atout France. I will give an unfavorable opinion on your request for funding of a communication plan for the Directorate-General for Enterprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u267	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u268	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor to support Amendment No. 2298.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u269	If you agree, I will also defend Amendment No 2299, which will come later in the discussion. Both deal with the aeronautical industry. First of all, I would like to welcome the €15 billion recovery plan recently presented by the Government, which will enable the whole sector to be accompanied, from major contractors to subcontractors, during this difficult period and in a processing sector. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to three issues. The first is the EUR 1 billion Aerofund 4 investment fund. Tomorrow we will learn which fund manager will be responsible for supporting the consolidation of the sector. The Aerofund 4 must become operational as soon as possible to accompany the subcontractors, especially since the social plans announced very recently, especially at Airbus, are only the tip of the iceberg. Subcontractors, which manufacture 80% of an Airbus, face great difficulties and are expected to get worse after the summer. The State must be vigilant in its investment in this area. The second topic is the production line of the A321 XLR, a new Airbus aircraft. Before the crisis, his order book was already full. The president and CEO of Airbus, Guillaume Faury, has suspended the decision to set up this chain in Toulouse. Yet it is a strategic issue of industrial sovereignty and a stimulus for the whole sector, particularly in Occitanie. It should be noted that Airbus's Toulouse sites focus on large carriers. The A380 programme has stopped, while the A350 programme, which works well, will return more slowly after the crisis. Does the Government intend to support the establishment of the A321 XLR manufacturing line in Toulouse, and contribute to an acceleration of recovery? I'm coming to my last point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u270	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u271	I also support an amendment that must be tabled later. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the recovery plan includes EUR 1.5 billion of investment in research over three years, through CORAC – Council for Civil Aviation Research. Can you tell us, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u272	You have no amendment to defend later, Mr Nogal. Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u273	I have another amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u274	Not in this bundle, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u275	I haven't finished my surgery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u276	If every deputy takes three minutes, we can't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u277	Respect the others! We're not gonna finish at three in the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u279	This amendment is an opportunity to recall that the State has committed EUR 200 million to Bpifrance's investment fund – which totals EUR 1 billion – to the aviation sector. I request the withdrawal of this appeal amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u281	We understood that Mr. Mickaël Nogal was defending the aviation industry, particularly in Toulouse. He recalled the major importance of Airbus and the decisive role of subcontractors: they employ many employees and face significant difficulties. The Minister of Economy and Finance, the Secretary of State for Transport and the Prime Minister are well aware of this. It is true that this appeal amendment, because it refers to amounts that are not those of a budget amendment, recalls the announcements of considerable support for the aviation industry made by the President of the Republic and the Minister of Economy and Finance. The Government had asked the company to review part of its plan. This amendment is intended to be withdrawn, if the honourable Member agrees. Let him know that his voice has been heard in the surroundings of the Prime Minister and that I will relay his words myself, like those of his colleagues in Haute-Garonne, legitimately worried about the aviation industry of this department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u282	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u283	I will withdraw this amendment, but I will add a word about research and the environment, which are an important issue. Our goal is a totally decarbonized plane around 2035. My last question, which I hope the Minister will be able to answer earlier, therefore concerned a European biofuel sector and the integration of aeronautics into the Green Pact for Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u284	Amendment No 1352 by Mr Lionel Causse is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u285	Amendment No 1348 by Mr Lionel Causse is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u286	Amendment No 946 by Mr Guillaume Garot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u287	The Government's amendment No. 2077 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u288	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 2115.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u289	During the state of health emergency, the State ensured that young people who rely on ESA, social assistance for children, were not put on the street from their eighteenth birthday, which, for them, would really have been too difficult at the same time. This exceptional measure must become the norm. Departments, which are responsible for these vulnerable young people, must be given the means to accompany them until they enter society safely, with a job and a roof. Many of them are growing in the ranks of homeless people: 40% of young people under the age of 25 living on the street come from ESA. Such situations can no longer be accepted. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I very much welcome the amendment just tabled by the Government aimed at increasing the protection of these children. I therefore withdraw mine for its benefit and, by the way, I greet all those who have worked in an emergency, with great efficiency, throughout this crisis, for the benefit of the young people of ESA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u290	The Government's amendment No. 2399 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u291	I have before me three amendments, Nos 951, 947 and 948, which can be presented together. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u292	As Christine Pires Beaune said, it is a pity that we waited almost three months for the proposals we had made about the world of culture to be heard. The good news is that we can withdraw these three amendments because the things you are planning are exactly what we were asking for: we are looking forward to it for the world of culture. However, the 5.5 billion that the minister is targeting is little compared to the hundreds of billions lost by the sector when it was already fragile. The world of culture had stopped very early and would have to resume its activities very late, so that the planned measures should be extended. On the other hand, a white year for intermittents is very good; But you have forgotten the 2 million people who are in intermittent jobs in the hotel and event sectors. These precarious and discontinuous jobs should have been subject to the same regime: a white year would make it possible to stick to the reality of their work. Again, so much better if we have been heard about the subject matter of these three amendments; But other amendments will reappear, because things are not going as well as we would have liked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u293	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2073.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u294	This amendment, which will cost €36 million, aims to implement the exceptional plan presented by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Economy and Finance for book companies. This budgetary effort consists of EUR 25 million for booksellers to overcome the difficulties they experienced during the health crisis, EUR 6 million for projects to modernise these same bookstores, and EUR 5 million for publishing houses, which, like bookstores, have suffered greatly from the epidemic. This was stressed by all the parliamentarians who specialize in cultural matters. Local and regional authorities will be able, alongside the State, to support book companies. Parliament had adopted a government amendment providing for the possibility for inter-communals to exempt bookstores, in particular independent bookstores, from the CFE, the business land assessment, on a deliberative basis. Not all have done so, even though this exemption is a real help for independent bookstores of various sizes, sometimes poorly organized in the face of direct competition from large digital brands. Of course, I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u295	Amendment No 1128 by Mr Guillaume Chiche is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u296	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1271 and 2254, which can be presented together. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u297	The first amendment, due to Mr Naegelen, aims to support independent radio stations, particularly with regard to broadcasting. The second, mine, relates to the overseas audiovisual media and aims to guarantee the pluralism of expressions. Their common purpose is to draw attention to these media, which, during the crisis, had to provide daily information to the French and formed an important relay for the public authorities in the overseas territories. This very activity excluded them from aid schemes: journalists could not benefit from partial unemployment, as they continued to work. I thank the Government for hearing our appeal: we have just adopted an amendment of €70 million, providing for media and press support. I wanted to stress the importance of this adoption in the context of this third PLFR; The media are in trouble and could not have waited for the next finance bill. Thank you, therefore, for these first credits. Having said that, I will withdraw my amendment, but I do not want to have Mr Naegelen's.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u299	Unfavorable opinion. As Mrs Sage quite rightly said, the amendment we have just adopted is correcting this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u300	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2407 and 2405, which can be presented together. The Minister has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u301	These two amendments do not concern the same subject, but are important in budgetary terms. The first step is to add 900 million State compensation to social security, out of the 3.9 billion compensated for social security under the employer's contribution exemptions, which we will probably examine tomorrow. This is the subject of Amendment No 2407. As for Amendment No 2405, he took note of the extension in June of the solidarity fund for small businesses and self-employed persons, as well as of the abolition of the condition of a loan refusal in order to receive aid under the second part, as announced by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It covers 500 million euros. In two amendments, therefore, we are asking the National Assembly to approve 1.4 billion additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u303	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u304	We shall now proceed to the vote. Colleagues, this is 900 million: focus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u305	For 900 million, today we've got nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u306	[[Smile]] The second amendment is worth only 500 million but also deserves some attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u307	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 904.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u308	I do not even dare to present it to the Minister: EUR 17.7 billion for this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u309	[[Smile]] See this in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u310	I am going to withdraw it, but it at least gives me the opportunity to point out that there is a plan for aeronautics, a plan for the automotive sector, and nothing yet for the rail sector. Moreover, of the $17.7 billion, $10 billion is to be used to accelerate the recovery of SNCF's debt, to which the Government has already committed itself. The remaining $7.7 billion is to cover some of the losses incurred, as well as to speed up work on the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u311	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u312	I would like to say a word to the honourable Member, because the subject is of the utmost importance, regardless of the 17.7 billion. I have allowed myself to say on television, as I believe the minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, that we will be at the side of the SNCF, a large public company, as the state has always been. However, SNCF does not present any short-term solvency or liquidity problems, which gives us time to complete a recovery law. There is no urgency to intervene, even if we know that the State will do so. I would like to reassure the National Assembly, because it says a lot. We meet regularly with the President of SNCF; There are several ways to intervene. In fact, the current situation is not only due to the covid-19, but also to the strike we experienced last winter: it had to be made clear, given the amounts mentioned. In any case, SNCF will receive state support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u313	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u314	I have only one question: will the work programmed, sometimes heavy work, especially on the lines of the balance trains of the territory, not be called into question?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u315	They've already been cancelled!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u316	Amendment No 1143 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u317	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 872.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u318	This amendment is proposed by Mrs Sylvia Pinel, who is particularly interested in it. The long-awaited recovery of the building and public works sector is accompanied by inevitable health recommendations that result in significant additional costs – masks, procedures, incremental costs of raw materials. The average additional cost is estimated at between 15 and 20 per cent of the total cost of a renovation project, 10 per cent for the construction of small buildings and up to 20 per cent for a single house. According to the French building federation, the additional cost would amount to EUR 11 billion, of which EUR 8 billion would be borne by the French building federation alone. The aim of this amendment is, therefore, that the State should bear the additional costs associated with health recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u320	I invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u322	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u323	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 1366.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u324	This amendment aims to extend the benefit of the RSA, active solidarity income, to young people under 25 years of age. The Government has taken a first step, which we have supported, by providing exceptional assistance for 800,000 young people, but thousands of young people remain excluded – students, young workers whose CSD has been interrupted, those who cannot find a job as a result of the pandemic. Many personalities, such as the Secours catholique, the Fondation Abbé-Pierre, the Union nationale des étudiants de France, ATD Quart Monde, youth organizations, are campaigning for the RSA to be granted to young people under the age of 25. I am well aware that this measure cannot be a solution, in the long run, for the youth of our country, nor for the alpha and omega of a youth policy worthy of this name, but, in the meantime, it would allow some to avoid falling into misery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u326	I thank you for this last amendment of the evening, which is important in that it highlights the measures envisaged in this text to help our country's youth during this crisis. Many appropriations have been appropriated to finance, in particular, the scheme of the €200 bonuses granted to precarious young people, the payment of the rents of the CROUS, the extension of student scholarships. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u328	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u329	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-02-E1005.u330	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the amending finance bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
