ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the Armenian people and the Christian communities of Europe and the East (No. 3538).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u3	From this rostrum, I would like first of all to convey to you the great sadness which is mine, as elected by Clermont-Ferrand, at the time when President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing disappears, alongside which, young Member of Parliament UDF, I made my entry into this Chamber in 1993.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u4	I wasn't even born!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u5	At this hour, I'm thinking about him and his family. The Republican Group of the National Assembly is submitting for our consideration a motion for a resolution on both the outcome of the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict on Nagorny Karabakh and relations with the European Union of Christian Minorities in Europe and the East. For our diplomatic services, each of these subjects alone is the subject of almost endless discussions and negotiations, as they are confronted with considerations not only geopolitical, but also and above all cultural, political and historical. That is why dealing with these two issues together, without taking into account the disparate situations that constitute the reality of this world, is tantamount to denying the difficulty in which we find ourselves, in which the peoples directly concerned by the conflicts that you refer to find themselves. Rather, the facts would prompt us to act with discernment, decision and method: this is precisely what the Government is doing, through the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, and especially the President of the Republic, who was able to establish personal ties with the Armenian people. Ladies and gentlemen, you are right to wish for a peaceful resolution and a final settlement of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict, leading to the recognition of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. However, how can this be achieved by excluding actors who, whether you want it or not, hold this possibility in their hands? It is not enough to wish Turkey to withdraw its troops and abandon its territorial claims so that it will comply with your wishes. Above all, it is not enough to exclude him from dialogue structures to encourage him to cooperate. How can you hope to revive the Minsk Group if you exclude one of its historical members? "In a three-power system, you have to be one of the two. Between Russia, Turkey and Europe, there is room for the affirmation of the European position, in which France takes its full part. Only then can a solution to this conflict be envisaged. In this context, it is absolutely necessary for France to maintain its position as a mediator,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u7	... rather than pushing each other to an overbid whose first victims would be the very people you rightly want to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u8	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u9	The issue is the responsibility of the political representatives of the parties, and especially of the peoples, whose sovereignty and the right to self-determination must be respected. We must, for our part, work to renew dialogue and to protect civilian populations by ensuring humanitarian corridors through which aid can reach them. We also wish to ensure the voluntary return of displaced populations within or around Nagorny Karabakh. The resolution of the conflict will only become possible once these conditions have been met. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on several benches of the LR and LT groups]] We see it: frozen conflicts threaten to explode at every moment. It is therefore necessary for us to engage the parties to resume their negotiations; the status quo cannot be the rule. We need to assert our position, to bring concrete solutions and a method to move forward. The MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats Group fully subscribes to your request for greater involvement of the European Union; Aware of the demand for responsibility that such tragedies entail, he also called for the intensification of the action of the Government, as well as that of parliamentary diplomacy, which could very much solve conflicts of this kind, as long as it had clearly identified the realistic objectives achievable by France and by Europe. This motion for a resolution can only be a first step that will lead to others: this is our duty to Armenia, to the Armenian people, to all the oppressed peoples in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u10	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u11	The circumstances that bring us together today are serious and the emotion that we Members have felt goes beyond the political divide: I am sure that it will bring us together when we vote on this text. In the past few weeks, we have all witnessed the new ordeal inflicted on the Armenian people, alone in the face of overarmed aggressors, determined to erase them from their historical lands of Artsakh. "Go ahead, destroy Armenia! See if you can do it. Send them to the desert. Leave them without bread or water. Burn their houses and churches. Then see if they will not laugh again, see if they will not sing or pray again. For it would be enough for two of them to meet, anywhere in the world, to create a new Armenia. This is what William Saroyan wrote about the Armenian genocide at the beginning of the last century, the same genocide recognized by our national representation here a few years ago. This motion for a resolution, this political convergence, has been made possible by a moral obligation: to refuse that war resolve territorial disputes, that weapons replace diplomacy. As parliamentarians, it is our responsibility to denounce facts that have been achieved but cannot be accepted. The use of force, the targeting of civilian populations, the use of weapons prohibited by international law, the failure to respect the rights of prisoners of war, the displacement of populations forced to give up a lifetime overnight, do not lead us far from a second genocide. We cannot allow or tolerate such a situation at the gates of Europe. Denouncing, demonstrating, is no longer enough. I would like to reiterate here the expression of our unwavering support for Christians in the East as a whole, as well as our friendship and support for the Armenian population, targeted, vilified and attacked once again in the course of its history. I am thinking of Aram, the mayor of Ochakan, combined with our Alfortville, the "little Armenia"; Aram, who went to the front with his young fellow citizens, had little more than their courage and their desire for freedom to oppose drones, to state-of-the-art weapons. For him, who loves France so much, we must live up to it today. Of course, the weapons have been killing themselves for the time being; But the cease-fire of 9 November did not resolve anything. It cannot take the place of a final settlement of the conflict, whereas only one party has been satisfied by the use of force and coercion. Even more worrying are the geostrategic benefits of the sponsors of this agreement, whose imperialist dreams, restored to the taste of the day, threaten to further destabilise an already fragile region at the gates of Europe. Under these conditions and with these modalities, this cease-fire cannot offer any guarantee of lasting peace. It escapes international control and offers no solution to the Armenian people. On the other hand, it notes the military installation of a third country and a territorial redistribution that perpetuates the grip of foreign powers. What we want today is to help local actors shape a future for Nagorny Karabakh and save lives. At this very moment, humanitarian convoys, basic necessities, are blocked in warehouses by Turkish customs officers on the grounds that they are military equipment. We are talking here about the minimum vital for a human being, about diapers for babies, about toys for children: these are not weapons! There is an urgent need for action; It is urgent, Minister, that France regain its place, its voice, its role as a protector and a key interlocutor! There is an urgent need to redefine the conditions and rules for a possible compromise: as co-chairman of the Minsk Group, France must call for the withdrawal of military forces, the return of borders to their previous route. The European Union must exert its full force in this direction and become a major geostrategic player in this fundamental sector. More generally, our policy and diplomatic relations in the Caucasus need to be completely rethought. Thus, the recognition of the Nagorny Karabakh Republic is not only a symbol, nor even a step in a diplomatic process essential to peace: it is a support for the Armenian people, a duty which France must honour, as it honours itself to protect and defend the peoples who suffer. That is why the Socialist and related groups will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. ("Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group. - Mr. Jacques Marilossian also applauds.) [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We support the Armenian people of Nagorny Karabakh and the recognition of their sovereignty. At the same rostrum, on 3 November 1896, Jean Jaurès denounced the prelude to the Armenian genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u12	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u13	The situation in Nagorny Karabakh is serious: it challenges us as individuals, as citizens, with the humanitarian disaster resulting from several weeks of deadly conflict, but also as parliamentarians, because we can only worry about the neo-Ottoman expansionism of President Erdogan, whose regime is manoeuvring to support Azerbaijan militarily. We must be lucid in the face of Turkish military provocations and actions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u15	... which are multiplying in the region: Eastern Mediterranean, Libya, Syria, Iraq, Cyprus, Aegean Sea, now to the south of the Caucasus. The situation also challenges us because of the deep friendship between our country and the Armenian people, with whom we share cultural treasures and a certain vision of the world, as members of the International Organization of la Francophonie. We have been several parliamentarians to mobilize, in the diversity of our political sensitivities: I am thinking in particular of Guy Teissier, François Pupponi, and our fellow senators. Many communities have done the same, including the city of Paris at the initiative of Alexis Govciyan, who, alongside Anne Hidalgo and Arnaud Ngatcha, received the support of most political groups, or the Île-de-France region thanks to the firm commitment of Valérie Pécresse and Patrick Karam. I would, of course, like to welcome the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, which organised emergency humanitarian aid; You yourself, Minister; and in particular your Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, who visited Armenia on 27 and 28 November, accompanied by associations, in order to transport medical equipment and essential goods. Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. The motion for a resolution that we are considering today, while a ceasefire was concluded between Azerbaijan and Armenia on 9 November under the aegis of Russia, is first of all symbolic. Presented at the initiative of our colleagues The Republicans, it covers a very broad field, inviting the Government to settle definitively the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, to recognize Nagorny Karabakh, to ensure with its European partners the rapid delivery of humanitarian aid, to review Turkey's accession to the European Union, to promote European fundamental values and finally to actively defend the threatened Christian minority communities in Europe, the East and the world. We share these concerns very broadly. Our group calls for the utmost vigilance in the face of the Turkish expansionism of the Erdogan regime, which deploys militarily and geopolitically, but whose demonstrations of force sometimes reach our territory, through the activities of the ultra-nationalist movement of the Grey Wolves dissolved on 4 November last. On the other hand, the Group of the European People's Party is concerned about the discrimination and violence suffered by Christian communities in Europe and the East. It calls for a strong and coordinated response from the international community, in line with the international conference on victims of ethnic and religious violence in the Middle East held at the Quai d'Orsay in September 2015.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u16	This has nothing to do with Azerbaijan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u17	The determination of the President of the Republic to have France active in obtaining a heritage cease-fire also meets a requirement of civilization. Our group of course supports the determined humanitarian ambition towards Armenia contained in this motion for a resolution. The Government's commitment to continue its long-term efforts is in that direction. The question remains of the recognition of Nagorny Karabakh. I appreciate the symbolic dimension that this parliamentary initiative, despite its non-binding effects, could have beyond our hemicycle. I am also aware of the existence of other conflicts in the world that could receive the same attention, and of the fact that other regions could expect the same kind of recognition from us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u19	As such, it is my duty to relay the reservations of some of my colleagues or the Government on this point. I would also like to reiterate our confidence in France's commitment to Armenia. Nevertheless, our relationship with this friendly people invites us to express here our full solidarity, which I wish to affirm in a personal way. Our group will therefore give its members freedom to vote together. As for me, I will vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the groups Action ens. and LR and on several benches of the LaREM groups, DemetLT]] I shall vote freely, responsibly, with a great conviction and a clear view of the future, because history is accelerating and we must act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u22	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u23	We are discussing this text at the initiative of our colleagues in the Republican Group, legitimately moved by the attacks, discriminations, oppressions and threats against Christians in France and around the world, on the basis of their religious beliefs. One hundred and five years after the genocide of 1.8 million Armenians and 250,000 Assyrians perpetrated by the Young Turk government, thirty years after the mass pogroms and killings of Armenians in Azerbaijan already, five years after the massacre of Eastern Christians in Iraq and Syria by Daesh,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u24	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u25	... already targeting the majority of the Assyrians, the main reason behind the motion for a resolution that we are considering today is the brutal, deliberate and premeditated aggression of Nagorny Karabakh by Azerbaijan. On this land, which they have inhabited since time immemorial, the Armenians founded the Republic of Artsakh, by virtue of the imprescriptible rights affirmed by the Charter of the United Nations, in particular the right of peoples to self-determination. It was on this same basis that the Armenians of Nagorny Karabakh held a referendum in 1991, in which 99 per cent of the population voted in favour of independence and said yes to the proclamation of a republic named "Republic of Artsakh" a few years later. If France had lived up to its traditions and its role as a country of human rights and the Enlightenment, it would have recognized this self-proclaimed republic since 1991. Yes, ladies and gentlemen: we should have voted for such a text before this deadly and devastating conflict broke out. We should have done so, because Azerbaijan and its Turkish superior might never have dared to attack with such impudence a State that is recognized and recognized by the international community. We should have done so because, by indicating the way, our assembly would once again have made our Republic shine to the firmament of the oppressed peoples. But it is still time to do so for the same reasons first, and for other reasons afterwards. The first reason is that our call for the recognition of the Republic of Artsakh by the French Government in the political process of resolving the conflict – not to mention the possible advent of this recognition – is in itself a protection of the country's indigenous populations. It was such considerations that led to the recognition of Kosovo or East Timor. The Artsakhiots have never conceived the recognition of the rule of law that they have been building for thirty years as a colifichet from which they could entangle themselves, but as a guarantee of security in the face of neighbouring and hostile powers that have made armenophobia a genuine State policy. The Artsakhiots had to leave entire parts of their ancestral lands, occupied by Azerbaijan today, because in the face of the dictatorship's government, the only choice they had left was to leave or die. We cannot admit that these people are being "hunted like dogs" from their country, as President Aliev has explicitly said, nor do we want them to come to fathom the miserable cohort of the too many refugees who are already coming to Europe. The second reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that we want to preserve the Armenian Christian heritage of these lands. But who will preserve it, except those who built it? Heritage is not only old churches that will at best be transformed into museums, albanized or Islamized, and more likely to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u26	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, What allows you to say that? That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u27	The heritage is also and above all the life of these churches and monasteries, the traditions that are perpetuated in these places of land and the societies that unfold in the shadow of their bell towers. If the Armenians were finally driven out of this land, not only would its heritage disappear, but its history would also be rewritten by an Azerbaijani who believes in building his identity by destroying that of Armenia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u28	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u29	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u30	This is also the purpose of our resolution: to testify to the fact that the Artsakh is Armenian, that Azerbaijan and Turkey are and will be held responsible for past abuses, and that war crimes are committed against civilians, subject to prosecution by international courts and criminal bodies. There is also a third reason to vote on this resolution which concerns us, as a Frenchman. We have not been to the rendezvous of history – of our history, of our values. Our presence in the Minsk Group has not prevented the conflict, the massacre of civilians, the use of chemical weapons and all the abuses we have witnessed in recent weeks. Worse, the feeling that we let the Azeris act has gained many of us in recent years. The mayor of Sarcelles that I was then experienced as a real infamy the fact that prefects of the Republic seised the courts at the request of the Azeri to sanction the elected officials who had signed friendship charters with local authorities arksahiotes. In Sarcelles, for example, this charter allowed us to offer computers to the poor children of our sister city and today the bruised Martakert. In recent weeks, the President of the Republic has found the words to name things and to place our country back where it should never have ceased to be, that is to say, with Christians in the East and, in this case, Armenians. France has, in fact, a great tradition of friendship and fraternity with Armenians and more generally with Eastern Christians. The Azeri and their supporters in our country were moved that the French of Armenian origin were numerous and that they had defended their brothers in Artsakh. Yes, there are many Armenians in France and this is a chance for our country. They are because France has been a land of welcome and adoption for the survivors of the genocide decided by the government Jeunes-Turcs. They have never forgotten this horror, nor their executioners. Yes, they mobilized to awaken France. In recent weeks, they have been our conscience: let them be forever thanked! [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LR and Agir ens]] One hundred and five years later, the choice for France is simple: to suffer dishonour by accepting with passivity what is happening before his eyes or to save honour by recognizing this small republic, O how great by its heroism, and by allowing the construction of a lasting peace and the survival of the Armenians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u31	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u32	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u33	While the ceasefire signed 26 years ago seemed to be authoritative, the increase in tensions last July led, from 27 September, to a new war in Nagorny Karabakh between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the latter supported, armed and enfied by its Turkish ally. After six weeks of intense and deadly fighting, a total cease-fire imposed by Russia, without any consultation with the Minsk Group Co-Chairs, was signed on 9 November by the President of Azerbaijan and the Prime Minister of Armenia. Under this imposed ceasefire, entire sections of Nagorny Karabakh, the historic cradle of Armenia, will be preserved by Azerbaijan and Russian forces will be deployed in theatres of operations to ensure the cessation of hostilities. This conflict, marked by barbaric acts and war crimes...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u34	On both sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u35	...– bombardments of civilians, the use of cluster bombs and executions of prisoners of war, in particular – highlighted the failure of the international community. It has failed to negotiate a lasting truce and, more importantly, a peaceful outcome to the conflict. The war created a state of affairs: once again, Turkey imposed its vision of things by force and took advantage of it to destabilize this subregion. Russia merely endorsed this situation and seized the opportunity to expand the presence of its troops on part of its former empire. After Syria, Libya and the Eastern Mediterranean, Erdogan's Turkey struggles to destabilize another region of the world in order to fuel its dreams of the Ottoman Empire which, in reality, serve only to camouflage the economic crisis, the political defeats and a disputed management of the health crisis. Taking advantage of an erratic American presidency and the chaos generated by the covid -19, Erdogan did not hesitate to arm Azerbaijan heavily and push its ally to war, going so far as to send nearly 2000 Syrian mercenaries,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u36	Where's the evidence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u37	... probably from the ranks of Daesh – the same ones who massacred our Kurdish allies. It is clear that without Turkey's support, Azerbaijan would surely have thought twice before conducting its offensive against Nagorny Karabakh. How many more attacks will it take for France and its Atlantic Alliance partners to finally realize that Turkey is no longer our ally and that it no longer has its place in NATO? How much further destabilization will it take for Europe to understand that it is finally time to subject the Turkish regime in Erdogan to international law by taking the necessary sanctions? The word "sanctions" must no longer be scary. Let us stop practicing the policy of ostrich and make genuflections before a regime in full dictatorial drift, which massacres people, imprisons its opponents, muzzles its press, replaces its democratically elected mayors by officials close to it and also allows itself, in addition, to destabilize the Middle East, the Middle East and the Caucasus. In December 2015 already, Jean-Christophe Lagarde called on Manuel Valls' government on the more than disturbing game played by Turkey in the development, financial among others, of Daesh. During the examination of the military programming law or during questions to the Government, the IDU and Independent Group has repeatedly denounced the actions and attempts to destabilize that country. In September 2020, we called on the Government to organize a debate on the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean and on our relations with Turkey. Unfortunately, the Government has not deigned to follow up on this debate, which is necessary. The time for clarification and indignation is over: acts must finally follow speeches. NATO Member States and European Union countries must shoulder their responsibilities in the face of this regime which has betrayed them more than once and which will start again as soon as new opportunities arise. With regard to Nagorny Karabakh, it was necessary for Syrian combatants to leave theatres of operations, international investigations of war crimes committed, the parties to return to the borders of 27 September, the safe return of Armenian refugees to Nagorny Karabakh and a lasting agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan. It is also essential that the cultural and religious heritage be given special attention and protection. Many parliamentarians, from both the opposition and the majority, have already committed themselves in this direction by publishing press releases or by tabling bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u38	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u39	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] In times of unrest and division, the motion for a resolution can therefore have the honour of showing the French people that our assembly is united, as the Senate has already demonstrated on 25 November. For these reasons, and pending the actions I have mentioned, the vast majority of the IDU and Independent Group will support and vote for a text that at least has the merit of courage and clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u40	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u41	It is at the gates of Europe that the Armenian people – a people already well mistreated by history, the victim of genocide that the international community has had so much difficulty in recognizing – have been the object of infamous aggression, of those that were wrongly believed to have passed with the passage to the twenty-first century. But to the horror caused by the massacres of the civilian population and the sacking of a territory is added the shame for our nation to have coldly laid down years of friendship between Armenia and France, to have simply looked elsewhere when the principles to which we refer were flouted. What happened in Nagorny Karabakh is beyond understanding. These are cluster bombs that have been used against civilian populations,..
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u42	Used on both sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u43	... illegal weapons that kill slowly but surely, while the Armenians had so few means of defense and were abandoned by their allies. They are also jihadists rushed from Syria to lend support to the army of the satrap of Azerbaijan. For many years, the spirit of Munich has seized the Western chancelleries, more engaged in queering the broads of the Aliev despot than in demanding respect for international law. Mr. Le Drian, what have you done to prevent thousands of victims from being murdered? Do you know that inaction is an action? You and your predecessors had twenty years in the Minsk Group, alongside the United States and Russia, in an attempt to find a peaceful solution to this decades-old conflict. Were you too busy negotiating with Mr Erdogan the blocking of migration flows? Although the Armenians paid a high price for the principle of fortress Europe, France also abandoned the Turkish and Azerbaijani civil societies fighting for law and peace, especially the intellectuals to whom France should have supported. Minister, you can't say you didn't know. Many of them have alerted you, from the beginning of the resumption of the conflict, while you take care to stress your friendship with Azerbaijan. It must be said that the French arms market, spent with Mr Aliev, is fruitful... The truth lies in the words of the letter addressed to you by Armenian actor Simon Abkarian. He told you: "To Pachinian the Democrat you preferred Aliev the dictator, and to political courage, ethnic cleansing. I understand, you couldn't seriously compromise your business commitments. But by doing so, it is the young and fragile Armenian democracy that you fail in a region that is conducive to corruption and totalitarianism. » The general purpose of this resolution presented by our colleagues in the Group The Republicans are laudable: it is a matter of France taking a stand for recognition of Nagorny Karabakh. However, ladies and gentlemen, I have little taste of the spirit of this text, which evokes a clash of civilizations where, in reality, the expansion of dictatorial regimes has been made possible by the dishonor of our diplomacy. Azerbaijan, France's first trading partner in the Caucasus, knows how to mingle our blindness at a golden price, and its Turkish ally has found in our stupid management of migratory flows material to force our hand to the fracture. I see only too well the hypocritical game played by those who were in power yesterday, pretending astonishment when they too bear a heavy responsibility for what is happening today. This is not a religious conflict but a new imperialism, which you denounce here and encourage within the NATO framework. If I do not agree with the argument that you put forward in support of this resolution, I would like to state loudly and emphatically our most elementary, most human, most fraternal solidarity with the Armenian people, who had the courage two years ago to overthrow the autocracy and carry out their own velvet revolution. This people is now bruised, condemned and threatened in their flesh, in their democratic and territorial integrity. From now on, it is up to the United Nations to take over the situation in order to avoid a new bloodshed and to prevent the law of the strongest: who can believe that Turkey and Azerbaijan will stop there? [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] In the meantime, our abandonment today pushes the Armenians into the arms of counter-revolution, it tightens on them the grip of a Russia which they sought to emancipate, it puts to the ground a Franco-Armenian friendship maintained for centuries. I want them to know that, in their quest for justice, they will always have all my support, all our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u45	What cowardice! Faithful to itself, France is insoubted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u46	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u47	Cursed be the war! War solves nothing, it is only a defeat of dialogue, politics, humanity, and everything that can be done to avoid it must be. Yet, in many parts of the world, conflicts persist, macerate nationalisms, and engulf the appetites for domination. On 27 September, an armed operation was launched by Azerbaijan in the territory of Artsakh, or Nagorno-Karabakh, whose population, historically linked to Armenia and already enjoying a form of autonomy, proclaimed its independence in 1991 following a referendum, although that autonomy was not internationally recognized. This brutal aggression, supported by Turkey, facilitated by the arms trade, marked by the use of unconventional weapons, carried out with the help of mercenaries from fundamentalist movements and jihadists from Syria, provoked an immediate reaction from Armenia. This deadly conflict has led to massive population displacements, leading to fears of a total ethnic cleansing operation and reminiscent of dark hours of history. Schools, churches, homes have been destroyed, leaving thousands of people in fear and distress. On 9 November, a ceasefire was signed between Armenia and Azerbaijan under the aegis of Russia, interrupting several weeks of fighting. It would be crazy to think that this agreement would make it possible to envisage a lasting peace between the peoples of the region. We cannot remain indifferent to this situation, and France can do so all the less since, in order to try to find a solution to this conflict, the Minsk Group was set up in 1992 and is supposed to assume the presidency with Russia and the United States. However, we can only draw a record of dramatic failure. What have we done? No one claims that it is easy to give a solution to this situation inherited from history and found its sources in the aftermath of the treaties of the First World War and those of the collapse of the USSR. In this part of the world still burning, the region is plagued by certain instability, increased by the vivacity of expansionist ambitions and nationalist sentiments. We know the propensity of the current Turkish government to extend its domination, extinguish cultural realities and establish authoritarian power by flirting for this with fundamentalists and terrorists, which does not prevent it from always counting among our NATO allies. France must not turn its eyes away; it must act in international forums so that the latest events do not lead to new and more tragic developments. We want to believe that a lasting peace solution can be built, in which the conditions for full mutual recognition can be created, allowing for multilateral recognition of Artsakh within borders accepted by all and established in peaceful neighbourhood relations. There is an urgent need to demilitarize relations and to define a framework of international law, and that is the whole meaning of the motion for a resolution that I tabled a few weeks ago with several of my colleagues. We can agree on this issue, and my conviction was further strengthened when I heard Guy Teissier refer to this motion for a resolution earlier. However, the wording of the latter, quite different from the way you have presented things in the rostrum, dear colleague, is not without provoking what I will call diplomatically a certain embarrassment. Indeed, the diagnosis formulated evacuates the historical depth of the conflict and presents the nature of the conflict in a misleading way, taking on board the theory of the clash of civilizations and turning it into a religious conflict, which gives the feeling of making it a means of illustrating and promoting the rise of the identity confrontation to our country. I mean here our full sensitivity to the plight of women and men persecuted because of their religious beliefs around the world, especially Eastern Christians. However, we refuse to act in the name of so-called Judeo-Christian principles, to use the words of the resolution, which have become universal values: this vision brings us back to the ineptitude of a war on the axis of good against the axis of evil. To describe the Nagorny Karabakh conflict in this way sends us in the wrong direction. In reality, it is a political conflict, and political will be the solution. Peace for all inhabitants must be our obsession, because it corresponds to what women and men of all peoples have in their hearts. If we can find ourselves in some aspects of your motion for a resolution, we find this to be a problematic state of mind. No more than the Republic of Artsakh, we do not want to be enlisted in a war of civilization. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. - Mrs Christine Hennion and Mrs Isabelle Santiago also applaud]] The spirit of responsibility required us not to silence our differences. However, we will not oppose this motion for a resolution. I am thinking of my friends and the many families with Armenian ties, who are now bruised. For them, the Government must hear the demand – growing, coming from all sensitivities and which your initiative has nevertheless allowed us to express – of a strong commitment from France to ensure that a just and lasting peace will finally prevail in the Artsakh.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u48	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u49	Twenty-two years ago, after the vote on a bill in this House, the deputies opened the way for a French recognition of the Armenian genocide, which was definitively enshrined in 2001. When it comes to the Armenian people, France's voice will always resonate with gravity, solidarity and fraternity. France will never forget the tragedies that this people have experienced. The presence of children from Armenia all over the world and here in our Assembly reminds us of their tragic exodus. In our country, this consciousness goes beyond partisan divisions, it appeals to our heart and reason. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 November 2020, a ceasefire agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan under the aegis of Russia ended several weeks of intense and violent clashes. On 27 September 2020, Azerbaijan launched an offensive aimed at the reconquest of the territories of Nagorny Karabakh. Very quickly, France called for a cessation of hostilities and signalled its solidarity with the civilian population. It also denounced Turkish interference in the context of the conflict, including the provision to the Azerbaijani army of mercenaries who had fought in Syria, among insurgent groups. France was moved by numerous reports of violations of international humanitarian law and war crimes. As we have said in the motion for a resolution tabled jointly with our colleagues from the majority government in the Assembly and the Senate, we call for the prosecution of any violations of international humanitarian law and any findings of the use of cluster munitions and incendiary weapons against civilian populations. Similarly, we call for the total and immediate withdrawal of all foreign fighters from the region – with the exception, of course, of interposition and peacekeeping forces. We welcome the deployment, at the request of the President of the Republic and the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, of a medical mission to Yerevan and, most recently, a comprehensive and structured system of assistance to the Armenian population. Our colleagues from all sides who have visited the country have stressed the urgency of this. We solemnly call on all parties to guarantee access to humanitarian aid through dedicated corridors. We solemnly call for referral to the United Nations Security Council in order to ensure international protection for Nagorny Karabakh and its civilian populations as soon as possible. Furthermore, we call for the possibility of a safe, dignified and sustainable voluntary return of displaced populations within and around Nagorny Karabakh. Ladies and gentlemen, this conflict is not religious. This resolution creates confusion in this regard. Armenia maintains good relations with some of its Muslim neighbours, including Iran. If the contest of Islamist fighters is real, it is irrelevant to oppose the Christian and Muslim peoples when there are centuries-old links between them in the South Caucasus, which they wish to preserve. This war is territorial...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u50	We agree on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u51	...even if some foreign powers want to make it a religious conflict. The outrages are real and must be denounced as such. We therefore call on the parties, the Minsk Group, the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas and UNESCO to make every effort to preserve cultural and religious heritage within and around Nagorny Karabakh. This mobilisation for heritage should be sustainable. Nagorny Karabakh has been filled with Armenian cemeteries, churches and monasteries for centuries. Finally, with regard to the specific question of the recognition of Nagorny Karabakh, which is attentive to the sovereignty of peoples and States, we invite the Minsk Group to consider this issue within the framework of the negotiating agenda for a lasting resolution of the conflict. We call on France and Europe to redouble their efforts to reach a negotiated, comprehensive and lasting peace agreement. France must continue its commitment to the Minsk Group, which it co-chairs, as requested by the Armenian authorities. We reiterate our commitment to strengthening the role of women in conflict prevention and resolution. A lasting peace cannot be achieved without involving half of humanity. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LR and Agir ens]] Ladies and gentlemen, too much blood has been shed in Nagorny Karabakh. Let us contribute to the continued silence of weapons and to the cessation of the sowing of death, contribute to peace, contribute to reconciliation between these two neighbouring peoples, with the strength of our words, aware of the weight of history. I invite each and every one of you to speak out with full conscience and freedom. On my own behalf, I will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u52	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u53	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for tabling this motion for a resolution which has the merit of alerting national representation and our country to the tragedy of Armenians in Nagorny Karabakh. How can we accept that, at the gates of Europe, they are once again victims of a hard work that is not only military, a terrible hard work that knows no limits? This is a real humanitarian disaster: an aggression characterized by Azerbaijan, the use of weapons against civilian populations and, as a new development, unacceptable, scandalous and unbearable aid from Turkey, which is using this conflict to attack Eastern Christians and Armenians. It sent the jihadists it had supported with the Islamic State in Syria to do a horrible job in Nagorny Karabakh, which it had deployed in Libya, which it had used against the Kurds who were fighting for their freedoms and who had been abandoned. That's the reality! This Turkey, which has still not recognized the Armenian genocide,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u54	Neither is Azerbaijan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u55	... challenges us, challenges Europe without any response. I can only agree with the various points in this motion for a resolution. We can only be unanimous when it comes to calling for the establishment of humanitarian corridors, the protection and recognition of Nagorny Karabakh and the return of displaced populations. This war, Mr Mbaye, is not only territorial. It raises three fundamental questions. The first refers to France's participation in the Minsk Group, which you mentioned, Mr Minister, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where you spent a lot of time with us, answering all our questions, which I thank you for – I would like to point out because it is not so frequent. You have often told us that it is an asset for our country because it allows us to be much more active. Rather, let us ask ourselves whether this participation has prevented us from taking stronger decisions, which would deter Azerbaijan from launching its offensive. The question, I sincerely think, Minister, deserves to be asked. The second question, of magnitude, is that of Christians in the East, for yes, Christians in the East are gradually being eliminated in the different countries in which they live. We cannot remain unreactioned forever. So there are a lot of petitions, there are a lot of associations, there are a lot of resolutions, but what do we really do to defend them when they are exterminated, one after another? The third question is fundamental – and I would have liked, I say with affection, that the motion for a resolution be a little firmer in its content. I read: the National Assembly "invites the Government to review with its European partners, in view of Turkey's proven role in this conflict, the continuation of Turkey's accession to the European Union". I would have liked you to ask instead for an end to this accession process and for a definitive note to be taken of the fact that this country has nothing to do within the European Union. At one point we should understand Germany's unbearable double game, our so-called friend: it leaves France in front of the jihadists in the Sahel, where our soldiers fall, and negotiates constantly with Mr Erdogan, which only weakens our position vis-à-vis Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u57	Yet there are solutions. We could freeze the assets of some Turkish leaders, we could apply sanctions; We have taken it against the Russians, why are we not even able to take it against Turkey, which is present in Cyprus, which provokes Greece and which destabilizes Libya? What do we do concretely? So, ladies and gentlemen, you are presenting this motion for a resolution, very well, but we must realize that at some point Turkey will only respect the balance of power. To support it, France must refuse to be dragged into the mud by this country for longer. The President of the Republic reacted in words; I'm waiting for him to react in action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u58	All good ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u59	[[Guy Teissier and Emmanuelle Anthoine applaud]] How can we accept that it joins NATO of which we are members? How can we accept that it tramples on the words of Europeans, their values, and that it intervenes all at once without our reaction?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u60	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the LR Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, very harsh military clashes, bombardments that have spared neither hospitals nor places of worship, thousands of civilians forced to flee their homes to shelter themselves, forty-four days of war, in the most literal sense of this term: no one in France today can be indifferent to what has just happened in Nagorny Karabakh and its circumference. Many, both in and outside this House, feel indignation, and I am part of it: from indignation at such a spiral of violence, from indignation to the idea that serious crimes may have been committed, particularly through the use of phosphorus bombs and cluster bombs – some reports point to this, and we will ensure, within the framework of our responsibilities, that all the light is shed on this matter. Many – and I am also one of them – condemn the role played in this conflict by foreign mercenaries from Syria, which is all the more unacceptable as this happens once again at the gates of Europe. Many, finally, – and this is also my case – denounce the attitude of Turkey, which, as in the Syrian theatre, as in the Libyan theatre, as in the eastern Mediterranean, seems to be playing both on the map of competition and on that of connivance with Russia, to the detriment of the security and stability of the region. Turkey, which is our ally in NATO, has indeed given, as you have said, decisive support to one of the parties to the conflict, in particular by deploying mercenaries, as it had previously done in Libya. Mr Dupont-Aignan recalled my regular remarks to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Turkey, and I am not going to take them back here. However, I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the annual meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers which took place the day before yesterday, I was able to convey a very firm message on this subject. I have found that other allies, great allies, have also, and this is new, stressed this urgent need for clarification in these debates. I therefore share a lot of what has just been said. I hear your anger, I hear your fears, I hear the questions you ask. However, as I say frankly, I do not share the objective of the motion for a resolution before you, that is, the request for the recognition of the independence of Nagorny Karabakh.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u63	Why? Because our Armenian friends don't ask us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u64	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u65	Never in their history have they recognized it, regardless of the configuration of the borders, even when they were very favourable to Armenia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u67	They're not asking for it today, no more than yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u68	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u69	The ambassador reminded us yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let us allow the minister to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u71	I must say that I have a great deal of respect for the ambassador of Armenia in France, but my interlocutors are Mr Pachinian and Mr Ayvazian, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Armenian Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u72	They say the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u73	The request made by my Armenian counterpart, which was reaffirmed by the highest authorities of Armenia last week, during the visit to Yerevan by my Secretary of State, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, relates, for the time being, to the stability after the ceasefire of 9 November and the safe return of displaced persons to the places they have fled in recent weeks as a result of the fighting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u74	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u75	I do not see how this recognition would put us in a more favourable position to continue to do what we have always done: to assume our position of mediation power in this conflict in order to achieve lasting progress towards a political solution. But, ladies and gentlemen, I did not ignore the symbolic significance that some people intend to give to this gesture. Of course, symbols matter, but what matters more is...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u76	International law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u77	... our ability to act tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u78	And build peace!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u79	In essence, it is very simple to recognize Nagorny Karabakh would be to exclude ourselves from the presidency of the Minsk Group that we share with the United States and Russia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u80	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u81	That would be to leave a political space that would be occupied by others other than us. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, it would be abandoning our role as mediator and our ambition to help build a lasting peace, which the Armenian authorities specifically ask us to...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u83	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u84	It was not very effective, the Minsk group...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u85	It's been around thirty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u86	... yesterday as today. This is all the more true given the urgency of the stabilization of the situation following the ceasefire of 9 November. This stabilisation will then allow a negotiation on a comprehensive solution to be initiated. Although it has just experienced dramatic and hasty developments, I would like to point out – as Guy Teissier did just now – that the Nagorny Karabakh crisis is old: it has its roots in the tears of the 20th century. For more than 20 years, France has been trying to help defuse it, since it joined the co-chair of the Minsk Group, at the initiative of President Chirac. Indeed, in 1995, following the ceasefire following the confrontations of 1991-1994, the OSCE gave France a mandate to reach a negotiated and lasting solution to the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. Of course, our mobilization was not enough to overcome the parties' lack of will to overcome their disagreements and to make the choices that France, as a mediator, could not impose on them. All the compromise proposals that we have put on the table have been rejected. We called for a ceasefire as early as 27 September, and we mobilized to bring about a cessation of hostilities. The President of the Republic immediately made very firm statements, and we have multiplied our efforts with our Armenian and Azerbaijani counterparts; Unfortunately, they did not succeed. The ceasefire of 9 November was negotiated and signed by both parties in an absolute emergency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u87	In our backs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u88	... while Azerbaijan's forces were only a few kilometres from Stepanakert. If this cease-fire is to be respected, it does not resolve the Nagorny Karabakh crisis; it does not constitute a lasting solution to the conflict. The status quo, Mr Fanget said, is not a solution: it does not allow us to envisage the future. Therefore, our priority is to provide support to the civilian populations displaced by the fighting, and to guarantee their safe return to the places they have had to leave. Under the leadership of the President of the Republic, we have made an important effort of solidarity: on 22 November, an aircraft carrying emergency medical equipment and humanitarian aid products went to Yerevan; A few days later, a delegation led by Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne travelled to Yerevan on a plane loaded with fifty tons of cargo, with the support of humanitarian organizations and Armenian organizations; French hospitals are also mobilizing to assist Armenian doctors. We will continue this indispensable humanitarian work. At the same time, we will continue to play our part in the Minsk Group: we will therefore pursue political objectives. This afternoon, a statement by the three Co-Chairs will be issued – on my behalf, as well as on behalf of my Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, and the US Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Stephen Biegun – at the OSCE meeting that is currently taking place to lay the foundation for further joint action. As you have pointed out, both of you: the arrangement of 9 November includes areas of shadow that require clarification; We have also made this very clear to Russia. I remind some who seem to have forgotten – I am thinking of Mrs Santiago or Mrs Chill – that there is a defence agreement between Armenia and Russia. Similarly, you will not have escaped the fact that the only Russian base in the region is in Armenia, and that the Collective Security Treaty Organization commits military solidarity between Russia and Armenia. Situations are always more complex than we imagine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u89	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u90	I repeat, we have made it clear to Russia that the arrangement of 9 November included shaded areas, the inventory of which is as follows: the departure of foreign mercenaries; respect for international law in respect of prisoners of war; repatriation of the bodies of the victims of the conflict; the protection of cultural and religious heritage; the resumption of negotiations to find a lasting solution to the conflict, in particular to answer questions relating to the final status of Nagorny Karabakh, its administrative delimitation and its mode of governance. Now that the weapons have been killed, we must step up our peace efforts; The joint declaration which will be made public earlier is in this direction. We also need to work closely with our European partners. The Twenty-Seven recently adopted a declaration on Nagorny Karabakh, which echoes most of the concerns I have just raised, and reaffirms full support for the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group on the resumption of negotiations. We are also seeking what I call a heritage ceasefire. The conflict must not endanger the invaluable heritage present in the region – I am thinking of cultural heritage, but also of religious heritage, whether Christian or Muslim. Any action on the ground must respect all histories, cultures and religions. In this regard, UNESCO and Prime Minister Pachinian support us, and President Aliev has made commitments. The consensus on the heritage cease-fire must now be translated into action on the ground – we will ensure that. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] What the parties are asking us, what our international commitments are asking us to do, and what our European partners expect us to do is to consolidate the ceasefire and start, now, new steps towards a lasting political solution. The first of these steps is the statement I have just mentioned. We will also have to re-engage in a dialogue with Azerbaijan, I say very frankly. I hear the sometimes very violent criticism of Azerbaijan in relation to us – I mentioned them with my Azerbaijani colleague – but I think we can find the way to dialogue. I would like to remind you that we have had a constructive dialogue with Azerbaijan in the past, initiated by presidents who refer in our history – François Mitterrand, Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy, François Hollande: everyone has acted in favour of collaboration with Azerbaijan. We must regain that spirit, but in order for this will to be shared and embodied, Azerbaijan must take the necessary steps in its positions and actions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] We will also continue a very close dialogue with Armenia, in the continuity of the permanent exchanges – which I would like to recall here because they are somewhat ignored – that we have with Prime Minister Pachinian and my counterpart, Mr Aivazian. I will have the opportunity to enter into an in-depth discussion next week with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Armenia on all the priorities I have just mentioned – in particular our concrete action in the humanitarian field, the protection of cultural and religious heritage, and the thoughtful and determined actions that we will have to undertake together, within a timetable, to pave the way for a lasting peace in Nagorny Karabakh – this peace that everyone wishes, as I have heard in your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u91	We have concluded our consideration of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u92	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u93	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, LaREM and Dem groups]] In 2001, France was at the rendezvous of history by recognizing the Armenian genocide. Today, in the face of an armed conflict initiated by Azerbaijan, and the deafening silence of the international community, we must make the voice of France heard and be at the side of the Armenians. The relations between our two countries are old – the important Armenian community on our soil bears witness to this. Guy Teissier described the conditions of the terrifying confrontation that resulted in thousands of victims; He recalled the consequences for the people of Nagorny Karabakh, who had to leave their land and abandon everything they had. I was able to measure the pain of this war by going there a few weeks ago with a delegation of parliamentarians from different parties, whom I greet here. This text, even if it does not have the force of law, obliges us; Moreover, it is expected by the Armenians – we have witnessed it on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u94	By the Armenians of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u95	We in the Republican Group are convinced that there is an urgent need to recognise the Republic of Nagorny Karabakh in order to allow for a lasting peace process in the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u96	It's interference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u97	This recognition will also help to protect the Armenian people who have been bruised by a conflict they have not caused. Finally, beyond the tragedy experienced by the Armenian population, we want to recall the urgency of defending all the persecuted Christian communities in the East and in the world. For all these reasons, the deputies of the Republican Group are today at the rendezvous of the history and friendship that unites France and Armenia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u98	A funny date!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] After the Senate, the National Assembly has the opportunity to send a strong message; It is therefore with honour and pride that we will vote on the resolution proposed to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u100	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u101	The MoDem Democratic Movement and Related Democrats Group expressed some reservations about the draft resolution. The goal – which we all share – and to protect civilian populations and achieve a lasting solution in a conflict that has lasted too long. The resolution marks a milestone in France's and Europe's response to Armenia. It will have to be implemented, and other initiatives, including parliamentarians, will have to take place, especially with regard to heritage – as requested by Armenian representatives. It is indeed urgent to mobilize international institutions, starting with the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas and UNESCO, to preserve a heritage that is part of our common culture. For Armenia, Nagorny Karabakh is a land of history and culture – attest to the many monuments that dotted it, starting with the iconic monastery of Dadivank, which I visited with colleagues a few weeks ago, with great emotion. The resolution tabled last week by the majority makes this request clearly, and we wish to give it a favourable outcome. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LR groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In order to underline the positive character of the resolution, while expressing some reservations about its drafting, our group will give its members freedom to vote. In my personal capacity, I will vote for the resolution proposed by the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u102	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u103	Your answer omits at least two issues, minister. You say you want to support the people – the President of the Republic has also said – but for the time being France has been a spectator of attacks by civilian populations. This conflict is taking place at the gates of Europe. France, which co-chairs the Minsk group, has remained a spectator of what has happened in Nagorny Karabakh. Another position we find problematic in terms of foreign policy: you claim neutrality. In its great history, France has most often been able to express a voice and refuse a neutrality that is dangerous. You protect yourself – or even, you take refuge – behind agreements,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u104	Or rather UN resolutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u105	...but when one of the partners of the Minsk group becomes spectator, one can wonder about the validity of the agreements. For the Socialist and Related Group, neutrality, since it concerns a territory situated at the gates of Europe, cannot constitute a foreign policy. A majority of Members of our group are in deep disagreement with your position, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We also regret the fact that the Republican Group has made its resolution a two-sided patchwork: it is always better to aim for a single objective, especially when we want to gather and create a consensus. Nagorny Karabakh and the Armenians would have deserved a broad consensus on our part. You will probably not get it, ladies and gentlemen, because your resolution multiplies the objectives. Nevertheless, a very large majority of Members of our group will vote for Nagorny Karabakh and for Armenians – perhaps there will be some abstentions or even some negative votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u106	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u107	The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (ACP) gives its members the freedom to vote on this motion for a resolution, but MEPs will vote on it for a number of reasons. We are deeply attached to Armenia, a friendly country, a friendly people. We must be present at his side at a time when it is facing serious difficulties, and while Mr Erdogan's neo-Ottoman regime has not hesitated to arm jihadists to "hun" – to repeat the words of President Aliev – the Armenian people from their lands. By voting on this motion for a resolution, we will show that we are determined to support the latter in the face of the challenge it faces. [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups Acte ens and IDU-I as well as on many benches of the groups LaREM and Dem. - Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] When you're a Member of Parliament, you have a freedom of conscience, and I think everyone on these benches is going to play it. But that does not prevent us from knowing that diplomacy is a difficult art. Minister, you have answered some of our questions and we know that, if your commitment is complete, the events that are taking place before us are not easy to understand. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party present today, however, have the firm conviction that the message that we are going to send when we vote on this proposal will be decisive in the face of President Erdogan. After Syria, Iraq, Libya, the Aegean Sea, Cyprus, we must say "stop", we must say "no" and France must show its extreme firmness in the face of the Turkish neo-expansionism of the Erdogan regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u108	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u109	Even if it comes late, this motion for a resolution is in the right direction and must be welcomed. The IDU and Independent Group will also vote for it. However, we regret that neither in the text nor in your remarks, Minister, Turkey's role in this conflict – but also in Syria, Libya and the Eastern Mediterranean – has been condemned more strongly. For it is in a thousand places that Erdogan's Turkey tries to provoke destabilization in order to feed its dreams of Ottoman empire. If the call for a review of the country's continued accession to the European Union goes in the right direction, nothing is said, and this is regrettable, about Ankara's presence in NATO. How many more attacks will it take for France and its partners in the Atlantic Alliance to finally realize that Turkey is no longer our ally and that it no longer has its place in it? We also regret that the proposal does not underline the inactivity of the European Union in this conflict. Joint sanctions against Turkey, in particular, would surely have given the conflict a completely different solution. We know how to do this when it comes to Belarus, but how shy we are in the face of Erdogan Turkey! We expect strong action from European governments. For all the reasons I have just mentioned and for the value of this motion for a resolution, the IDU and Independent Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u110	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u111	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u112	Minister, once it is not customary, we will disagree. I can understand that Armenia has difficulties in recognizing Artsakh. Had it done so unilaterally, Azerbaijan would have reacted immediately and the conflict we have just witnessed would have taken place much earlier. We are well aware of the state of the balance of power: for more than 15 years, Azerbaijan had invested in armaments the equivalent of Armenia's total budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u113	In the order of 1.4 billion euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u114	But the Russians are arming Armenia for free!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u115	When the French Senate had the honour of voting last week on the resolution on the need to recognize the Republic of Nagorny Karabakh, this was officially stated on its site Nikol Pachinian: "The decision taken by the French Senate is historic. International recognition of Artsakh is part of the international agenda. Yes, the Armenians expect from France this recognition...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u116	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...even if they can't officially do it. Then let's grant it! Minister, the Republic of Artsakh, where I visited regularly, was self-proclaimed in 1991. It is a democracy with a President of the Republic, a government and parliamentarians. We could have taken home this country as we did for Kosovo. I am confident that this afternoon's vote, which I hope will be favourable, like last week's vote in the Senate, will serve Armenia, the Artsakh, but also France and the Government. It will be an additional lever in the negotiations that you must conduct – and which are difficult, I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u118	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u119	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR and IDU-I groups. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] Minister, allow me a claim. Many of us have signed friendship charters. I urge you, let the local authorities send essential goods to the communities of Artsakh. Make sure the prefects don't attack them in court anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u120	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u121	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must affirm our concrete solidarity with the Armenian people. By listening to you, Minister, I must say my deep concern, not to say my dismay, because you are sending back the Azeri and Armenians, a despotic regime and a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u122	You didn't listen to him well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u123	Nothing in your remarks gives the feeling that you are taking the measure of the geopolitical turn to be useful, in line with our republican principles in this conflict. What the Armenians are asking for is, above all, support for speeches and actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u124	There are four UN Security Council resolutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u125	The motion for a resolution by our colleagues in the LR Group has the merit of allowing the debate in this House and setting out the objective of the recognition of Nagorny Karabakh. However, the explanatory memorandum to the proposal cannot obtain our concurrence. It is written that France must take this position "in order to defend our common values based on the Judeo-Christian principles". The group La France insoumée disagrees with this vision, which is based on the clash of civilizations. Rather than such a vision, we want to defend, in this conflict, law, justice and peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u126	It's not incompatible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u127	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] This real difference in substance does not prevent us from telling the Government clearly that it must finally assume its responsibilities in order for France to return to the path of defending justice and peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u128	Unsuspecting France is cowardly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u129	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u130	As I said earlier, the text, as it is written, is not suitable for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. However, I would like to thank Mr. Guy Teissier for the comments he made in the rostrum and which, for the most part, we share. It is this spirit that should have prevailed in this motion for a resolution. I also thank him for allowing a debate to take place on this subject. It is clear from this discussion that we are deeply concerned, that we are outraged at the aggression committed and that we are aware that nothing good can result from it. So we can't stick to that. Similarly, this debate will have forced the Government to make its position clear. We believe that more vigorous diplomatic intervention is necessary to achieve a just and lasting peace and recognition by international law of the situation in Artsakh. Only truly multilateral action will achieve the desired results and achieve that peace to which I hope we are all committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u131	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u132	On 27 September, Azerbaijan attacked Nagorny Karabakh. In this unequal balance of power, thousands of soldiers and civilians have lost their lives. Women, children and men were seriously injured by the bombings caused by Azerbaijan, Turkey and the jihadist mercenaries who came to assist them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u133	There were dead people on both sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u134	It was not the Armenians who attacked Azerbaijan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u135	More than 100,000 Armenians from Nagorny Karabakh have been forced to flee, burning their homes in an ultimate gesture of despair. With some 15 of our colleagues, whom I agree with, we visited Armenia at the end of October during the conflict. We saw with our own eyes the horror experienced by orphaned children and broken families, the horror in the resuscitation services of the hospitals in Yerevan where young people were mutilated by cluster munitions or burned by white phosphorus. [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The text proposed to us, we are aware, will not solve everything, and for this reason, perhaps, some colleagues will take advantage of the freedom to vote to abstain. Others, of which I am a member, will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Our vote today is a matter of humanity. It is a matter of expressing strong and symbolic support for Armenians. Beyond words, Armenians need action: they must denounce war crimes, provide humanitarian aid, help them find their prisoners of war, demand the departure of the jihadists still there, and ensure that their multi-year heritage is preserved. [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I. – Several members of the LaREM and Dem groups stand up and applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us be today the honour of France and the voice carriers of its universal message of peace. Let us vote and act so that the Armenians can finally live free, in peace and security on their land.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u136	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u137	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 207 Number of votes cast 191 Absolute majority 96 For adoption 188 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u138	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u139	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u140	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to allow illegal aliens to be excluded from the benefit of social pricing in transport (No 687, corrected, 3591).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u141	Mrs Constance Le Grip, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u142	The examination of this proposal for a law to allow the exclusion of foreigners in an irregular situation from the benefit of social pricing in public transport is the result of work begun more than two and a half years ago. Indeed, the bill of which I have the honour to be the rapporteur today was registered as President of the National Assembly on 21 February 2018. It was designed with my colleagues Robin Reda, Valérie Lacroute and Éric Ciotti, and then co-signed by many other colleagues from the Republican Group, beginning with its president, Mr Damien Abad, and it was as part of their reserved day, this Thursday, December 3, that the Republicans wanted to enter its examination. It is therefore a work started over two and a half years ago, and declined several times, both in committee and in public session, by amendments to the 2018 law for controlled immigration, an effective right of asylum and successful integration, as well as to the mobility guidance law – LOM – of 2019. As part of the parliamentary debate on the LOM in June 2019, the Government, represented at the time by Ms.Elisabeth Borne, had not opposed these amendments, relying on the wisdom of the Assembly. These were several identical amendments, supported at the time by several parliamentary groups, and not only by the Republican Group – I may have the opportunity to come back. The purpose of this draft law is to amend the existing legal framework by supplementing the transport code and allowing the withdrawal of illegal foreign persons from the beneficiaries of social pricing in transport. The text aims to provide the necessary legal basis for the mobility organising authorities, the AOMs, to choose whether they wish to grant or refuse the benefit of social pricing to foreigners in an irregular situation. In fact, under the principle of the free administration of local authorities, they must have the choice of whether or not to do so. On 25 January 2018, the admiring court of Paris overturned the deliberation of 17 February 2016 of the Syndicat des transports d'Île-de-France, the STIF, which has since become Île-de-France Mobilitys, which had chosen to exclude from the scope of social pricing – a reduction of 50% or even 75% – foreigners in an irregular situation who benefit from the AME, medical aid from the state. This deliberation was made following a strong commitment by the new elected regional president and his majority. However, the Paris Administrative Court held that Article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code made the benefit of the tariff reduction conditional only on a condition of resources, and not on a condition of regularity of stay in France. This cancellation was subsequently confirmed by the Administrative Court of Appeal of Paris on 6 July 2018. In view of these decisions, our text, which consists of a single article, therefore proposes to supplement Article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code so that the benefit of social pricing is no longer subject to the sole condition of resources, but may also be subject to the condition of regularity of stay in France: we wish, in a way, to correct a legislative malform. It seems to us that this is a proposal of common sense – I stress these last words. How can we accept that foreigners in an irregular situation, who are not intended to remain in the territory of our Republic and who remain there illegally, automatically benefit from a tariff reduction in transport? For us, it goes, with this bill, fairness and justice. There is no real justification for foreigners who are in an irregular situation with regard to their stay in France to enjoy more rights than other public transport users. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not logical. This benefit of the social pricing granted regardless of the situation with regard to the conditions of stay in the territory of our Republic seems to us to be a real bonus to illegality, considered incomprehensible by many users, especially modest ones, who pay full price – "full pot", if I dare say – their transport ticket, even if there are, of course, several reduced rates for young people, young people in integration, job seekers, seniors, large families or people with reduced mobility. I would also like to point out that access to almost all social benefits, whether it be the RSA or active solidarity income, the allowance for disabled adults, family allowances, the solidarity allowance for the elderly or the supplementary invalidity allowance – and I could continue the list – is subject to a condition of regularity of stay in the territory of the French Republic. This is a constant, structured and coherent approach to the social policy of our Republic. By proposing to make the benefit of social pricing in transport subject to a condition of regularity of stay in our country, our text is only part of this approach which, I repeat, seems to us to be of common sense and fairness. Given the deteriorating financial situation in which many AOMs find themselves due to the current pandemic and the drastic decline in attendance, also in view of the economic and social difficulties to come in our country, which risks seeing an increase in the number of people in precarious situations – poor workers, job seekers or disadvantaged students – it may be wise and opportune to allow some AOMs to recover some budgetary room for manoeuvre,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u143	Yes! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u144	... with a view to developing their social pricing policy in a fair, fair and targeted manner for people who really need it to go to work, seek employment or receive training and who, for persons of foreign nationality, are in accordance with the laws of the Republic. Maintaining this bonus to illegality and illegality, which is the result of the current wording of article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code, is incomprehensible and undermines our idea of respect for the laws of the Republic, the rights and duties that are involved, and the social contract. I regret that the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning rejected this bill at its meeting on 24 November. I regret and deplore the changes of foot and face made by certain parliamentary groups during the vote held in committee last week. I also regret and regret that the groups of the presidential and parliamentary majority, notwithstanding the statements made and the votes cast by some of them in the previous episodes of 2018 and 2019, voted in committee on 24 November to delete the single article defended by the groups La France insoumis et Socialistes et allied. I very much hope that we can have in the Chamber today a full and untruncated debate, a clear and serene debate that will enable each and every one of us to assume his or her responsibilities and allow me to defend before you an amendment aimed at giving local authorities the choice, an amendment justified by the principle of their free administration and by the expression of universal suffrage. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of common sense, fairness and justice, to debate and vote on our bill, and to vote on the amendment that I will defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u145	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u146	We are considering a proposal for a law of the Republicans which proposes no longer to grant social charges in transport to foreigners in an irregular situation. A single clause for a fixed idea, if I may say so, since this idea, Parliament has already considered it on several occasions: in 2018, when the Asylum and Immigration bill was examined, then when the mobility bill was considered, in committee and then in public session. Every time it is rejected, it comes back to us today with a real insistence: it is no doubt a sign of an impatience to debate our migration policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, you would like to amend Article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code so as to exclude people in irregular residence from the benefit of the reduction of at least 50% open to those whose incomes are below the ceiling of the supplementary universal health insurance. The benefit of this reduction is therefore subject to an income criterion and not to a situational one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u147	At this point...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u148	Beyond the ethical question, you do not bring any new arguments, no new answers to the legal fragility of this system, no new objective estimate: since these last reviews and questions, we are therefore in exactly the same situation as in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u149	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u150	Some of you expect savings from this measure that has already been put in place, before being annulled by the Paris Administrative Court: your explanatory statement estimates it to be 43 million euros for the Île-de-France region alone. First of all, it seems that these data are out of date, with Île-de-France Mobilitys currently applying a social rate of 50%, not 75%. On the other hand, your calculations assume that all those who currently benefit from the tariff reduction would purchase a full fare ticket if they were deprived of this reduction, which is also not established. Despite the requests of the Government, and the requests you made in committee, the rapporteur, Île-de-France Mobilitys, has not specified the number of people benefiting from the AME today holding a social pricing subscription. It therefore seems difficult to really assess the impact of such a measure on the budget of this mobility organising authority. Legal frailties also remain. I will focus more specifically on one of them. Your text tends to allow a distinction of pricing on the basis of the presentation of a document at the counters, which would put the agent on the responsibility of assessing the reliability of the identity document, hence the regularity of the stay. Such an amendment presents – as you know – a constitutional risk, given the demanding jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council on identity checks. How can the controller be given the opportunity to ensure that the stay is regular? Given our commitment, which you know, to the dialogue and co-construction of these public policies and the idea that we are united in diversity, we are richer, I can only express to you my astonishment that these provisions ignore any debate between communities, any territorial reality, any local consultation. Moreover, they do not limit themselves to giving the AOM the possibility of no longer granting this reduction: they prohibit and impose. If the associations of elected representatives and the local and regional authorities have not seized the Ministry of Transport since you opened the debate, these provisions question. I would point out that the State services were also not contacted by Île-de-France Mobilitys to remove certain doubts. We have said that we have not had any answers to appease those that have already been formulated in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups]] As it stands, therefore, and in view of all the uncertainties that still exist about this text and its real objective, I prefer to keep a note of solidarity and humanism. Under these circumstances, the Government will express an unfavorable opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u151	In the general debate, Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u152	Today we are presenting a bill tabled in February 2018 with the support of all members of the Republican Group, who are co-signatories. Its aim is to exclude foreigners in an irregular situation from the benefit of social pricing in transport, as Constance Le Grip has detailed at the moment. If this initiative follows a measure that the regional majority of Ile-de-France wanted to vote in 2015, it is not limited to a Franciscan concern and concerns all the authorities organising mobility. I will start with a regret: that of having to try again to convince the merits of this bill, despite the numerous agreements in principle on the part of the Government and some members of the majority, some of which were among the Franciscan regional councillors who approved this provision five years ago – some would even have an office in the Elysée. The question before us this afternoon is: what consistency would there be for the French administration to distribute non-vital social assistance to people whose irregularity of stay is evident? For hearing more or less sharp arguments in committee to refute the relevance of the bill, I have chosen to set out in the preamble everything that it is not. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This bill is not an obstacle to freedom of movement. It does not in any way prevent anyone who wishes to carry a transport document from travelling as thousands of users do every day. But there is a long way, ladies and gentlemen, between tolerating freedom of movement in the name of fundamental rights and subsidising with the money of honest people the movements of people who do not respect our laws. This bill does not mean the end of any social pricing in transport. There are already very many measures to support the transport costs of people living in France, whether they are French nationals or in a regular situation on the territory. I am thinking of the beneficiaries of the CMU – universal health coverage – the elderly, young people, people with disabilities, who are all beneficiaries of adjusted rates. Nor is this bill contrary to our principles of reception and asylum: total free transport is granted for health-care trips from the moment an irregular alien receives state medical assistance. This is not a phenomenon to be underestimated, since nearly 320,000 illegal foreigners benefit from the AME, more than half of whom are affiliated with a primary health insurance fund in Île-de-France according to the General Inspectorate of Finance and the IGAS – General Inspectorate of Social Affairs. Nor is this bill unfair, on the contrary: elected from a suburban city and using almost daily public transport, I know the difficulty of those who respect the rules and monitor their budget to the nearest euro. I challenge you to explain to them why people who are illegally present in our territory are entitled to attractive aid – and not to them. I live at the foot of a RER station and I see every day the fatigue of abuse and micro-aggressions of those who fraud or benefit from right-passes. Finally, this bill is not the symbol of a France hostile to any immigration or in favour of the complete closure of the borders, as is now supported until on the banks of France which is incontrovertible. It is not intended to restrict social pricing solely to French nationals. It simply puts an end to an inconsistency, to a call for illegality, while so many people are taking proper steps for a regular stay in our country. On the other hand, this bill leads us to put the parliamentary majority in front of its responsibilities, the first of which is to accompany the President of the Republic in his now assumed fight against irregular immigration. It even reaches a government objective. President Macron said at the beginning of November that he wanted to strengthen the system of "police, gendarmes, military and CRS mobilised against illegal immigration". In September 2019, Emmanuel Macron called on his supporters to "be human and effective" and "get out of certain postures in which we are trapped", between "good conscience" and "fake hard". Today with this bill we have a good opportunity to be collectively fair and consistent, without false hardness. There is no justification for this illegality bonus, which is additional social assistance for people who are present illegally on our soil. To quote once again the President of the Republic, "In order to continue welcoming everyone with dignity, one must not be too attractive a country. "And then, people who are not destined to stay in the territory because they have entered the territory illegally have to be taken away much more effectively. This bill is consistent with a migration policy that encourages compliance with our laws: welcome, yes, but not at any price, not under any condition. According to the same Emmanuel Macron, "the difficulty we face is that we are facing a new phenomenon: the flow of entry into Europe has never been so low and asylum applications have never been so high in France. I believe in our right to asylum, but it is diverted from its purpose by networks, people who manipulate. [...] What I am asking you about the immigration debate – he said to his majority – is to go beyond cleavages and taboos. » Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be welcomed, we do not encourage the irregularity on our soil at the risk of creating exclusion and insecurity. When one wants to welcome, one does not play with the fire and with the dignity of the people by proclaiming "welcome to the refugees" on social networks, then seeking to drive them out of the city centres by pretending not to touch them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u153	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u154	When one wants to welcome, one puts an end to the hypocrisy of financing the Navigo pass for the illegals, because the Navigo pass is the annual transport title of the workers and therefore it amounts to publicly subsidising the hidden work! In short, since he is in the habit of quoting his grandmother here, mine is used to saying: "Who too kisses, badly hugged! » Finally, this bill – Constance The Grip said it very well – will allow local authorities to have the choice and apply the tariff policy for which its majority was elected. This aid for illegal immigrants does not represent a lesser expenditure: in 2015 it was estimated at 43 million euros, while there were fewer people in an irregular situation in our region. Social pricing has a cost because, yes, public transport has a cost. Contrary to what some or some claim with demagogy, ideology and bad faith, free transportation for everyone, there is no such thing! I don't think drivers drive our trains, buses, trams or metros free of charge. Freedom does not exist in any of the major European cities because there is always a payer at the end of the day and everyone knows which payer we are talking about: it is the one who respects the rules, pays his taxes, and can no longer see the national solidarity diverted to this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u156	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is time for courage and coherence. It is time to put an end to postures that are more than counterproductive. It is time to send a strong signal, that of a country that is not Europe's open bar.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u157	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u158	Because a territorial community must administer itself freely, because France's migration policy, already dominated by European commitments, does not have to suffer from an additional call for air, because in the republic, and whatever the timing, a person in an irregular situation does not have to be treated better than a person who respects the law, whether French or foreign admitted to stay, I invite you to vote largely in favour of this bill, in the name of consistency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u159	Justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u160	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... in the name of justice, and in the name of true republican equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u161	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u162	Madam rapporteur, I do not understand your choice to put this text back on our agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u163	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u164	I had already had difficulties in understanding this decision from the committee stage, given a health, social and economic context which is not entirely appropriate and which confronts us, as we all know here, with other emergencies and priorities. You have explained in committee that you are not responsible for the parliamentary review schedule. The inclusion of the texts examined in the context of the niches is, in fact, decided in advance, but this argument does not apply to the discussion in the public sitting: you could have completely abandoned your bill at the Conference of Presidents this Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u165	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u166	What are you looking for, ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, by putting such a text on the agenda of your parliamentary niche? Since 2018, you have put this topic on the table, first, during the review of the Asylum and Immigration bill, then during the review of the mobility orientation bill and now as part of your niche. Not only are the debates irreparably the same, but you yourself acknowledged in committee, the rapporteur, that the coincidences between your bill and the current situation were unfortunate. Especially since 2018, you have succeeded in a prowess rarely matched by a parliamentary political force, i.e. the opposition of almost unanimous groups in this House. In fact, we feel this strong opposition within your group. The examination in committee was particularly striking in this respect: six groups rebelled against your text, criticising its cleavage and unacceptability, and no member of your group in the committee came to support the rapporteur on her bill. We understand your unease, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u167	Don't give lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u168	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... in the face of a proposal that was very largely put forward by the President of the Île-de-France region in total disagreement with other mobility-organising authorities, while only half of the AME beneficiaries are in Île-de-France, a proposal that is not based on any impact assessment and which we are therefore completely unaware of the effects on the finances of the communities. Also, not only does your report not study the consequences that this measure could have on people who are already in a situation of great insecurity, but it also focuses solely on the Île-de-France region.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u169	It's better to hear that than to be deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u170	We can see this very well in the list of people who have been interviewed, while your PPL concerns all the AOMs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your text does not only introduce the possibility of no longer granting the benefit of social pricing to foreigners in an irregular situation: it actually prohibits any AOM from granting it, whereas AOMs are very divided on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u171	I have tabled an amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u172	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] I tell you again, ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, if the legislator decides to exclude from the benefit of the half-tariff an individual who in fact cannot afford to pay more, he will no longer buy transport tickets. [[Mr Lionel Causse applauds]] By such a provision, we will encourage these people to fraud. As a result, instead of the 50 per cent of the transportation fare that communities receive today, they will no longer be affected in the future. The effect of such a measure on public finances will therefore most likely be negative. The budgetary reasons you put forward to justify this proposal therefore seem illusory to us. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, let me question the desirability of such a bill. At a time when we are living in a global pandemic that has already killed more than a million people, at a time when the queues are growing inexorably in front of food aid associations, at a time when young people are wondering with fear about their future, at a time when many of our fellow citizens are struggling not to fall into precariousness, at a time when the French need solidarity more than ever, you are destroying by your bill the need to promote social justice. This proposal was already incomprehensible in 2018, it became totally inaudible today. Dear colleagues of the LR Group, suffer from the fact that people in an irregular situation have access to public transport,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u173	But they have nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u174	...if only to establish a residence permit application file or to accompany their children in school. You will have understood my group's complete opposition to this text. Of course, we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u175	Laxist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u176	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u177	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor. I would like to take this opportunity to invite our colleagues from the Republicans to listen to the speakers who speak on the text they have presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u178	We are taking part in the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u179	As we begin our consideration of this bill, I would like to welcome the vote on the deletion amendment that we tabled with my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group in the Committee on Sustainable Development. This adoption had led to the rejection of this bill, which clearly reaches a population in great difficulty on the basis of unconvincing arguments. As the rapporteur pointed out, the desire to exclude illegal foreigners from the benefit of social pricing in transport dates back several years. This bill introduced in 2018 had been translated into amendments to the Asylum and Immigration Act in 2018 and to the LOM in 2019. It is therefore important that our Assembly be able to state a clear position. Furthermore, we were waiting for the Government to position itself, beyond the wisdom it had given at the time of the LOM, especially at this difficult time for all; We therefore welcome the way in which the Secretary of State has just spoken. I would like to recall the substantive arguments behind the tabling of a deletion amendment, which I hope will achieve the same success as in committee. First of all, the rapporteur points to a need to restore fairness and justice. As I said in committee, it seems rather strange to talk about fairness, i.e. differential treatment depending on the situation, when we wish to return to this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u180	But it's about someone in an irrational situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u181	[[Mr Lionel Causse applauds]] [[Ms. Maina Sage applauds]] Where is equity when it comes to aligning the pricing of a particularly fragile population with that which does not benefit from it because of resources? The rapporteur has told us that this is a matter of justice for the low-resourced Francilians, yet they do not benefit from the same cuts. As I said, we agree on this point and on the desire to help the French in difficulty, but not by sacrificing one to help the other. Let us not go down but let us open up the benefits of these social tariffs to the most modest ones. If French citizens do not have access to reductions, even though the share of transport in household expenditure is now their first or second item of expenditure, according to INSEE, there is a real problem. This is due not to the fact that undocumented people would take over the means but to impoverishment of the population and the widening of inequalities. Since the resolution of poverty exceeds our level of intervention here, we must at least respond with aid accompanying the populations. The rapporteur also pointed out that there was no justification for this reduction for individuals in an irregular situation, since they were in breach of the laws of the Republic. However, if we look at this text, it is because the Paris Administrative Court, in its judgment of 25 January 2018, states that the benefit of the tariff reduction can only be linked to one condition of resources and not to a condition of regularity of stay in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u182	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u183	If the logic of the proposed legislation were to be followed, the granting of a tariff reduction would depend on factors other than resources. Nothing would eventually prevent it from being related to the person's conduct towards the company, which would make the removal of this special pricing, in the long term, an advantage or punishment. This logic seems to me to be worrying. The second argument put forward is that of cost. According to the most optimistic figures, this pricing would cost around 40 million euros per year in Île-de-France Mobilitys. It will still be recalled that the total resources of Île-de-France Mobilitys amounted to some 10.5 billion euros in 2018. This makes it possible to relativize the importance of the cost of the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u184	It's a matter of principle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u185	It is true that we are in a moment of crisis, but the use of this argument to say that there will be very low budgetary margins, thanks to the abolition of this charge, is not serious. Last July was announced that around 2.6 billion euros were missing in Île-de-France Mobilitys. Once again, the budgetary argument is relativized very strongly, especially in order to make migrants pay for the crisis. You indicate that the proposed measure would redirect social pricing to populations that really need it. We will pass on the idea that irregular migrants do not really need lower pricing, to focus on the logic of opposition between the poorest, which does not allow us to face the real problem: chronic under-investment in our transports and the need to support them. Finally, as I did in committee, I would like to testify to very concrete situations. Young migrants I have been able to meet in my territory have not left their countries out of my heart. Uprooting is always a suffering, especially when one knows the often inhuman conditions of the journey they have undertaken. Many have gone through various stages, first in an irregular situation, sometimes for a long time. They have applied for asylum, sometimes obtain a residence permit or refugee status after many steps have been taken to the OFPRA – French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless – of the CNDA – National Court of the Right to Asylum – of the prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u186	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u187	Those who are lucky enough to get this valuable document in my territory work, integrate and are wanted by entrepreneurs. He was pleased that they had been able to benefit from travel facilities while they were in this irregular situation. As sociologist François Héran affirms: without immigrants our country would not last long. It's always good to remember. [[Applause on the SOC and Action Group benches. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u188	Mrs Jourdan, the correction has led me not to cut you off, but more than six minutes, for a five-minute speaking time, is a little excessive. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u189	This is again the social pricing of transport. This measure of equity for the most financially vulnerable users is applied in some 30 networks in France and makes it possible to target users in situations of great insecurity to facilitate their travel, because it is necessary for everyone on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, we can try to understand your approach, driven by a feeling of injustice or inequity compared to those who pay full rates or who do not benefit from a reduced rate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u190	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u191	[[Mr. Robin Reda exclaimed]] ...but very honestly I think that's the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u192	The Government supported a similar amendment in the LOM law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u193	Calm down, listen to the opinions of others: I have listened to you, listen to us. First of all, we are in a very special period of crisis and in this sense I was a little surprised by this proposal. For it is an unprecedented, exceptional period, when everyone in France, here in Hexagon as in our ultramarine territories, receives exceptional aid to which we are not entitled in normal times, whether we are entrepreneurs, employees or not. We regularly vote here on exceptional aid schemes because we are in a situation of exceptional crisis. [[Vif applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, SOC and GDR groups]] I ask you to understand these people, certainly in a situation of irregularity in terms of the law, but do you believe, in human terms, that it is a pleasure to leave your country, to cross the Mediterranean? Do you think it's to hit half a Navigo pass a month? Do you seriously believe that this advantage is attractive enough for us to choose to leave our country and family? What you are proposing is in fact a project from Île-de-France proposed in 2016, rejected twice by justice as contrary to the constitutional principles of solidarity, fraternity, equality, freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u194	Respect universal suffrage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u195	Mr Reda, I think that earlier, when you spoke, you would not have liked to be interrupted as you are interrupting Mrs Sage. Let her finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u196	You came back to propose it by amendment under the LOM. I understand that some people can defend the idea that special pricing would be a form of inequity to the Frenchman who fights every day. Yes, of course, but should reform take place at the expense of those who are just as vulnerable or even more so? Rather, let us think together about even more favourable arrangements for all these populations, whatever their colour, whatever their origin, whatever their legal status in our territory. Let's go to your economic argument. I, too, have been looking for the impact assessment: 40 million euros, it is true that it is a lot, and it is the French who pay. But then I looked at the overall budget. I wondered how many people benefited from this aid: 3.6 million. And how many people are in an irregular situation? 116000, i.e. only 3.6% of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u197	It's too much already!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u198	It's already too much for some; For me, this is the little solidarity expressed by the whole nation. Perhaps it is not for the communities to pay, perhaps the funding scheme has to be revised, I would also like to hear it, but frankly, ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I am struck by the choice you make today. Let us follow your reasoning: if we try to regularize all these people, where will they start? Look at their socio-demographic characteristics. They are mostly young and unemployed. In any event, they would have found themselves in social pricing. How can it therefore constitute an incentive to illegality? No one holds the truth, but, quite honestly, I find this bill stigmatizing. We are talking here about human lives, people in dramatic situations because they are uprooted and have been forced into exile by an unsustainable economic, environmental and political emergency that our own country and the European Union have been able to provoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u199	Thank you for closing, Mrs. Sage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u200	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LT and GDR groups]] Colleagues, please think before you vote! What social measure of exemplaryness, equity or economy do we really talk about with this text? Do you really want to support such an approach? You will have understood that, for its part, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u201	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u202	He's the last of the giscardians!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on several benches of the LR group]] There is no humanists on the one hand and those on the other hand who would not; On the one hand, there are no good people and on the other hand, bad people, responsible Members and irresponsible Members, solidarity-makers and individualists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u204	But there is still the right and the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u205	This bill is based on a factual element, which gives rise to a feeling of injustice among some of our fellow citizens: they see every day in Parisian transport, but not only, that some people enjoy social benefits from which they themselves are deprived, even though they contribute more than they do, through their work and their taxes, to national solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Madam Secretary of State, by caricaturing the debate and denouncing those who would be tempted, by political calculation, to target immigration in general, and not just illegal immigration, you are actually doing a rather cynical calculation. You hope that this debate, by serving the populists and the extremes, will at the same time allow the President of the Republic to be re-elected in 2022, but in doing so you take a major risk. Perhaps, in fact, it is the best way to allow Emmanuel Macron to take the second round of the presidential election, but it is also to take the risk of having Marine Le Pen elected to the presidency of the Republic. So, I urge you, do not deprive us of an in-depth debate on such a sensitive subject; Don't caricature him! Our discussions must reflect the reality of our fellow citizens, a reality that is truly simple: foreigners in an irregular situation are people who violate the law; as such, they should not be able to benefit from certain social assistance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u207	Yet, many of them pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u208	... in particular social pricing, since these aids are mostly, except for state medical aid – understandable since it is public health, i.e. the health of foreigners as well as French citizens – subject to the obligation to present a regular administrative situation. Today it is not a question of stigmatizing those who have been denied the right to asylum, who have won France without a long-stay visa and who have not obtained a residence permit. There is, however, a fact, which is reflected in the relatively important figures, which have been recalled. Our citizens feel an injustice: they contribute to the national budget through their work and taxes, but they do not have the right to social assistance for people who do not contribute to the national effort and who are not in accordance with the law. This situation has been denounced by the President of the Île-de-France region with the intention of remedying it or, at least, granting local authorities, in application of the constitutional principle of the free administration of local authorities, the freedom to award social charges in transport to foreigners in an irregular situation. This is the subject of Amendment No 2 tabled on the initiative of Constance Le Grip, which, if adopted, would lead the IDU and independent group to support the bill. We believe that this measure is the best way to resolve the situation without the intervention of justice. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here to make the law and that the law sometimes solves certain problems in a way contrary to the jurisprudence. I would also point out that many of our citizens live below the poverty line. However, we have an obligation, in the context of the economic crisis that we are experiencing, to look for all means to contribute to a better balance of public accounts, those of the mobility authorities as well as those of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the IDU and independent group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u209	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u210	From this bill comes a smell of regional electoral campaign...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u211	Winning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u212	...and some disturbing hints. We all remember the decision of Valérie Pécresse, in 2016, as soon as he arrived at the head of the Franciscan regional executive, to exclude from the benefit of reduced fares on public transport persons in an irregular situation benefiting from the AME. This provision has been overturned twice by the administrative courts. You tried to change the legislative framework during the review of the LOM – without success. You're coming back to the charge today. In the absence of innovation, at least you can be recognized for the merit of obstinacy and, if you will allow me this wink, consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u213	You have to be obstinate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u214	Your ambition is barely hidden: only Île-de-France is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I see in this text a barely veiled call from the foot to the francilian electorate, for which you point an accuser's finger towards a category of population that would benefit from an undue privilege. The Francilians and more broadly the French have, I believe, other issues of concern at the moment. We would have waited, on the part of one of the main opposition groups, for concrete proposals to help our compatriots cope with the economic and social emergency. You would prefer to mention in your parliamentary niche social fraud, communalism or foreigners in an irregular situation. Isn't it reducing for a movement that claims to be leading the country tomorrow? Unless you wanted to make your market on dangerous land... You also present your initiative from the perspective of social justice, which seems curious to me to say the least. Is it worth recalling that people in an irregular situation targeted by the text are not wealthy? They have often had difficult journeys – others have said so before me – and their administrative situation must not make us forget the vulnerability and social situation in which they find themselves. They are "rightless", sometimes neither expulsable nor regularizable. To grant them the benefit of social pricing is not to give them a bonus for illegality, but to allow them to start integration by recognizing the right to mobility; It is an opportunity for them to travel to carry out their administrative tasks, to care for themselves or to go to pick up their children when they are in school. I also do not share your will to oppose people in an irregular situation and the French who have difficulty completing their end of the month. It is true that transport remains an important item of expenditure for some modest users of public transport who pay their full fare, which must ask us about the tariff schedules in force. I therefore call on Mrs Pécresse, whose competence it is, to carry out this reflection, even if she extends social pricing to new beneficiaries. As for your budgetary argument, it also does not resist the analysis: first of all, because at the time of restoring the reduced pricing, the Île-de-France region has implemented a set of new rules that virtually prohibit undocumented people from benefiting from it; Then, because financial insecurity generates fraud. That is why it is necessary to implement, by means of social pricing, the right to transport for people in situations of social fragility or in the process of integration, as some cities do. By taking the opposite path, you take the risk of seeing revenue from the sale of transport tickets diminish. A ticket bought at half price is better than a fraudulent ticket. Finally, because we are talking about savings in candlesticks, the figure of 43 million euros put forward by your group is not supported by a serious study and we must put it in perspective with the revenue of Île-de-France Mobilitys, of the order of 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u215	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u216	As for the 125,000 beneficiaries of the AME that would take on transport, they represent only a tiny share of the 2 million daily users of public transport – one of our colleagues has already pointed out this. Moreover, whether or not they borrow transport will not change the structural costs of our infrastructure. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] Sociologist Alain Touraine argued that the defence of the dignity of all should be a fundamental political project. I believe, for my part, that allowing the mobility of all, including the undocumented, contributes to the defence of dignity. Your text takes a completely different path: to banish already discriminated populations, to search for scapegoats and to oppose popular classes to other popular classes. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote, with conviction, against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u217	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u218	Dear colleagues of the Republicans Group, you have decidedly a sense of priority! Today, you are embarking on a kind of Lepine contest of far-right ideas. In the midst of a health and social crisis, as we were told yesterday the sordid count of 35,000 dismissals in three months and as we now have more than 10 million poor and 300,000 homeless,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u219	Respect the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u220	... the Republicans bring us together in this Chamber to roll out the red carpet again at the National Rally and to trample on what remains of rights for the most precarious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u221	Ask the French if they want to pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u222	The time had to seem opportune for them to come to the rescue of Mrs Pécresse, rejected twice by the administrative justice after wanting to make this anti-social measure a symbol of her presidency of the Île-de-France region. In the regional council, I remember, the proposal to exclude foreign beneficiaries of the AME from social pricing in transport had already found the support of an enthusiastic National Front to see its ideas full of xenophobic resentment taken over by the conservative right-wing handlers. At such a level of ideological convergence, they are no longer dangerous connections, but a feverish embrace of bad joy, that of taking away from those who have nothing to have a little. Because that is what this is about in the bill. However, taking transport, moving around, is one of the first fundamental freedoms and a ferment of social cohesion. With this text, you add the financial and administrative precariousness. You are spreading new obstacles in the journey of foreigners who want to have their rights recognized and to be helped, educated, cared for. Not content to see them driven out of the Place de la République, when they did not die in the Mediterranean – since our country was unable to welcome the Aquarius – you suddenly feel the hope that these people, you will no longer see them, and that they will have the good taste of remaining cloistered on the other side of the ring, where they were thrown away a few weeks ago – as in the past they were banished, banished, where the origin of the word "suburbary" comes from. How can you defend such a ignoble text today? How can you choose to ignore that, during containment waves, it is these undocumented people who have often increased the amount of transportation crowded to ensure the basic needs of the population by taking the risk of being contaminated? How can you pretend to forget the human price paid by these people that our administration refuses to recognize as part of ours? How can they deny the risks they have taken by working as food delivery workers in the restaurant, in the logistics, in the building, in the cleaning companies, when so many others were quietly confined to their homes, or even in the heat in their secondary residence? You may know that Portugal, in an admirable consensus, has granted additional rights to the undocumented. Italy has made it easier for them to obtain residence permits. At the same time, in the midst of an economic recession, in the midst of an unprecedented social crisis, the French right is gargarian and wishes to deprive them of a right. It is simply shameful, and the arguments put forward simply add to contempt the most disgusting insult. In order to defend this measure, Ms Pécresse asked without laughter on television sets whether it was up to the Île-de-France region to pay foreigners for a television that they could not afford. I leave you judges, ladies and gentlemen, of the abject level of this reasoning and of the imagination that it has set. And you dare to put your proposal under the umbrella of "equity" – is it written in the text? Definitely, Orwell is never far away. You also dare to talk about money, as if this measure, which represents only a drop of water in the budget of the public transport francilians, could help to solve I do not know what problem – which could be solved if we were finally to tackle those who should put in the pot so that we have quality daily transport. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, GDR and LT groups. – Ms Maina Sage also applauds]] I will end by saying that what you are doing is disastrous, in a country that is gangred by ideas that constantly go on the ground of the extreme right. I don't know if you're measuring your responsibility. Your name is The Republicans, but it seems to me that your proposal is not simply ambiguous; It breaks with the republican promise and its motto, which I remind you: freedom, equality, fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u223	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u224	There are two ways to argue against this bill. The first is frontal, since nearly forty years ago, communist minister Charles Fiterman had made the recognition of the right to transport for all of his target objectives. It was not just about addressing energy or environmental concerns, but above all about improving the quality of life and access to daily services for all. We Communists have always been faithful to the fight for the recognition of the universal right to transport, by mobilising ourselves again and again recently for free urban passenger transport. However, in addition to the very connoted accents of your text, you are now trying to jeopardise the universal nature of the right to transport, which, if not free of charge, is reflected in tariff reductions whose sole criterion is based on the conditions of resources and not on the administrative situation of individuals. Through the Act on Solidarity and Urban Renewal, which you have constantly fought against, we wanted everyone to have the right to housing, but also the right to move, guaranteeing to all those who do not have the means of accessible transport. For us, no misappropriation of this principle is acceptable; or you want to create an exceptional regime. For this, you are putting forward rather pathetic justifications, such as the insignificant cost of social pricing, and our colleague Millienne has very well documented the perverse effects, if only technically, of your suggestion. Thus, you consider it fair to deprive people who have already been deprived of everything of their basic rights. Thus, you consider it right to oppose between them the poorest, rather than to tackle social injustices. You agree, you say, to remove the "incentives" for individuals without a residence permit to choose to stay in France. Instead, say that you are simply trying to hinder their basic faculties. The parallel to the anti-SDF measures that the right-wing mayors have championed is striking: making your policy invisible and humiliating. As far as arguments are concerned, there is a second way to answer you. Perhaps – no doubt – you opened the first small window of the Advent calendar last Sunday; Then she told all of you to open your heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u225	It's naive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u226	We were looking at a text whose explanatory statement stated that "Jewish-Christian principles... have founded our continent and offered universal values to the world". What do you do with these values? [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] In the past few days, Christians have entered the Christmas period,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u227	You mustn't mix everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u228	... a party that gives a special place to children but which has long been accompanied by an important tradition, as I myself was able to verify on occasion: that of preparing an additional place and cover at the Christmas Eve table. This place, the "place of the poor", had to be reserved for those who, lacking the necessary, would come to the door unannounced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u229	Catholicism is good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u230	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, Dem, SOC, LT, Actir ens and on many benches of the LaREM group]] How can we not invite you, dear colleagues, to meditate on the words of Pope Francis: "Not to welcome foreigners in need [...] is to seek to encourage a culture that is only Christian by name"? We are not asking you to do this, but, before voting, try to answer this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u231	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u232	This proposal for a law, which was examined within the framework of the parliamentary niche of the group Les Républicains, aims to make the benefit of social pricing in public transport subject to the regularity of the stay of the beneficiaries in France. It follows the parliamentary debate that took place in the context of the examination of the LOM and the decision of 25 January 2018 of the administrative court of Paris, this court considering that the transport code makes the benefit of the tariff reduction "only subject to one condition of resources, and not to a condition of regularity of stay in France". In a 2016 report, the human rights defender also recalled that the right to work is one of the "fundamental rights of foreigners in France". Lastly, children of foreigners in an irregular situation also have the right to attend school. The elimination of social pricing in transport risks endangering effective access to the right to housing, care, job search or school attendance for its children. The proposed law jeopardizes the access of illegal aliens to a number of social rights guaranteed to them by the State. The impact study, which should have covered the finances of Île-de-France Mobilitys as well as those of associations providing assistance to foreigners in an irregular situation which, by way of transfer of charges, would bear the cost of abolishing the tariff reduction, was not carried out. The financial data justifying the text are also incomplete or even obsolete; they date from 2016 and are therefore prior to the change in pricing made by the Île-de-France region. Also, the loss of revenue due to the 50% tariff reduction, a loss estimated at 43 million euros in the explanatory memorandum, masks the financial gain for Île-de-France Mobilitys, which corresponds to the same amount: 43 million, that is what foreigners in an irregular situation actually pay. Moreover, these figures imply that all the persons concerned have requested a reduction, which is not the case. The issues underlying the allocation of the AME and the treatment of illegal aliens cannot be the subject of a single-article bill discussed in a niche. The importance and complexity of the subject do not allow us to discuss it in this legislative context. The La République en marche group defends a humane, pragmatic and social approach to the treatment of foreigners in an irregular situation present on French territory. On the contrary, the measure proposed by the Group of the Republicans appears to be ill-suited to the current health and economic crisis, in that it targets a population whose vulnerability has increased in recent months. As regards the method, only one hearing was organised, namely that of the Director-General and the Head of the Charging Department of Île-de-France Mobilitys, an establishment attached to the Regional Council of Île-de-France; No aid associations for foreigners in an irregular situation have been received, although these would be affected by the adoption of such a bill. It is therefore necessary to receive them before considering any legislative changes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maina Sage and Mr Bruno Millienne also applaud]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group is against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u233	Mr. Dupont-Aignan being absent while he was registered, the floor is to Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, who may improvise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u234	I'm gonna try to do the best I can. Some of you said it before me, this discussion is a chestnut tree. Indeed, we have had it since 2018, and it regularly returns to this Chamber. This has been the case in the debates on the mobility guidance law, which some of you have mentioned; amendments were also tabled on this subject at the time of the discussion of the text on immigration. I would like to return to a number of points. Currently, article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code allows foreigners in an irregular situation to benefit from the same tariff reduction as the French and foreigners in a regular situation – during the various discussions, I have heard several times that the illegals and the French would be opposed, but this is a question of opposing on the one hand the illegals, and on the other hand the French and foreigners in a regular situation; the distinction is important. As a result, communities are obliged to fund 50 per cent of these tickets, which, you will admit, is a very important cost. I would also like to recall that article L. 622-1 of the Code on the Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the Right to Asylum punishes with five years' imprisonment and a fine of 30000 euros "any person who, by direct or indirect assistance, has facilitated or attempted to facilitate the irregular entry, movement or residence of a foreigner into France". The present wording of the article places the French State potentially in a criminal situation of aid for the movement of foreigners in an irregular situation. In order to change this situation, which is totally absurd – you will agree – the Group of the Republicans proposes to make the tariff reduction conditional on the regularity of the stay in France. It's a measure of common sense. The duty of humanity, which is legitimate, must not be given precedence over the duty of justice. Indeed, to grant such a reduction to illegals – I insist, illegals – is a real bonus to illegality, a kind of bonus to illegality financed by the money of the French. This discount benefits people who do not have the right to stay in our territory. France, France of yellow vests, France of the French who work, those who are honest and respect the law as those who have suffered the health crisis of full whip, cannot understand it. When in the riding, I explained that we were going to work on a bill that dealt with this measure, several people looked at me with absolutely shrewd eyes, wondering how it was possible, how the current regime could even exist. Illegal aliens are not intended to enter or remain in our territory. There is no question of calling into question the principle of tariff reductions for people in difficult situations, I insist, but why should we benefit foreigners in an irregular situation who are not intended to remain in our territory? Recall that these same illegals are already treated for free in France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u235	Should we let them die?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u236	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ...which is a real air call, you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u237	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u238	It is time to put an end to it, and that is why I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u239	After the last intervention of almost five minutes, which Mr.Minot visibly approved, the general discussion was closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u240	As the committee did not pass the bill, I now call the single article in the text that was originally before the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u241	The first speaker on the agenda is Mr Maxime Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u242	The rapporteur has explained very well the reasons for this bill of common sense, which tends to extract foreigners in an irregular situation from the beneficiaries of solidarity pricing in public transport. Considering the appeal of all kinds of aid to those who do not comply with the law; Considering the injustice of favouring a person in an irregular situation rather than citizens in a regular situation; Considering that the French do not have to assume financial responsibility for the Government's complacent migration policy; Whereas France is still a generous and caring country with regard to asylum seekers in good faith; Considering that the Government itself and MoDem had not opposed an identical amendment at the time of the LOM; Whereas, in order to reject this text, the majority and its allies argue that there is no impact assessment which they do not hesitate to do without doing so on multiple occasions;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u243	But it's the Council of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u244	... Considering that it is more than time to bring the Government and its majority out of their contradictions; Whereas, contrary to what the Francilians think, this paradoxical situation does not only affect the Parisians since the inhabitants of the Oise are also concerned – the RER D continues until in the constituency in which I am elected; Whereas public money is not free money but the result of the work and efforts of the French; Considering the lack of time given to the Republican opposition in the debates; For all these reasons, we do not have to apologise for defending such a measure which would mislead us as unworthy or inhumane. Watching elsewhere or turning around in the policy of excuse will only accentuate the incomprehension of our compatriots and promote – precisely – extreme voting. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] By political calculation, this is undoubtedly what those who oppose this text want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u245	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u246	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u247	It must be admitted that, while the question raised raises real problems and deals with real issues, the answer is more of a somewhat cynical political calculation since the bill is not legally applicable, or at least very questionable. It is also highly questionable in financial terms because less revenue will be generated: without social pricing, the public concerned will not pay any more, which will impoverish the operating account of the transport company. As my colleagues have explained very well, this measure also lacks humanity and justice, contrary to what our colleagues in the LR Group say. This measure is not fair and, above all, it will not return any stranger to his home: all will remain in France. Your bill does not answer the main question: what do people who are in an illegal situation in France do? On the other hand, it will produce three perverse effects: it will increase fraud and delinquency because these people will necessarily travel without means and without transport;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u248	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u249	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... she will cast these people into greater poverty; and, above all, it will deprive some employers of workers. Indeed, many of these people work in France despite being illegal. They are accepted in companies where they work more than others and hold positions that the French do not want. These are at least three perverse effects of a text which, in my view, is more a matter of political calculation than of a real well-structured proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u250	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u251	Among the undocumented, you talk about illegals as if they were a dark force – I have a little trouble with that. You want to exclude people with children from social pricing, as my colleague Lionel Causse said. According to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child – CIDE – which France has ratified, children have the right to schooling, regardless of their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u252	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u253	I don't see the connection! Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u254	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Article 3 of the Convention recalls that "the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration", and article 28 thereof, which States must make "primary education free and compulsory for all". However, some children of undocumented parents are housed in hotels, regularly change places of residence, and so often turn away from their schools. Let me finish, please. I can testify very concretely, for having been a teacher for non-French-speaking students in a primary school in Bois-Colombes. Three students in the class – with an average of 15 to 19 students – took more than an hour to come to school. By depriving parents in an irregular situation of social pricing in transport, you will prevent them from accompanying children and, therefore, indirectly, you will deprive children of access to school. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On behalf of the best interests of the child and for many other reasons, I will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u255	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 3, to delete the article. I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u256	If you have listened to my speech in the general debate, you will not be surprised to see that we are tabling an amendment to the effect that this bill be simply deleted. I address myself quite solemnly to our colleagues in the LR Group because I believe that the current climate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u257	No moral recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u258	Not you, not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u259	Why no morals? A little Republican morality, it always feels good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, could you please listen calmly to the arguments of the people who oppose your bill? There is no difficulty in having a debate in this House. Only Mrs Autain has the floor to defend her amendment to delete your device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u261	I hear, I see physically the determination, or even the relentlessness, of the LR group. At this time of crisis and major social recession that will increase the number of people in precariousness and poverty, your priority is to tackle the most vulnerable among the poor and among the precarious. It's your obsession, your priority. At least today, it has the merit of being clear on the face of the right who runs after the far right, who has just spoken out to give his full support to your proposal. I would like you to realize what you are doing in a country that is ideologically shifting towards a camp that does not understand that the urgency is to share wealth, to increase the base of rights, to unite us on a project that allows us to federate and not to exclude ever more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u262	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This is the real substantive debate we have between us. More than any other, your bill makes us angry because it really reaches the base of what should bring us together as Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u264	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u265	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u266	This amendment by the Socialist Group is intended to delete the single article of this bill for several reasons, and in the first place because it is a question of making savings at the expense of a particularly vulnerable population. Socialist and related Members defend inclusion – not exclusion – through transport. By deleting this article, we wish to facilitate access to daily transport for all the inhabitants of our country, whether or not they are French nationals, in a regular or non-regular situation, living in a large city, in a peri-urban or rural area. As the right to mobility is a factor of socialization and integration, it must be effective for all. Access to transport facilitates access to employment, public services and all activities of daily life. By excluding certain vulnerable and in a more precarious situation, the bill is damaging the living conditions of people in an irregular situation, without remedying the fundamental problem: the underinvestment of our public services. By relying on resentment towards illegal migrants, this text only removes the prospects for the integration of a part of the population of foreign nationality residing in France, which very often nourishes forms of separatism, insecurity and violence, the consequences of which prove to be delayed. Recall that, in its judgment of 25 January 2018, the Administrative Court stated that the benefit of the tariff reduction can only be linked to a condition of resources and not to a condition of regularity of stay in France. That is why we oppose the bill and call for the deletion of this section.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u268	On these two deletion amendments, I will speak in my personal capacity since, at its meeting on 24 November, the committee adopted similar deletion amendments, which I deeply deplored in my speech in the rostrum, explaining my position. Taking advantage of the time allotted to me, I will respond as best I can – if not in an exhaustive manner – to several of the speakers who spoke in the general discussion. After listening to you with great interest, Mr. Wulfranc, I wanted to stress the originality of your argument. I did not necessarily expect you to enter your argument in the Advent period and evoke the ritual and daily opening of the small window of the calendar – a childhood memory, who knows? We did not necessarily expect, either, from the representative of your group, the reference to the person and to the words of Pope Francis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u269	There's no contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u270	In any event, we listened to this with great attention. In substance, of course, I cannot find myself in your comments on the stigmatization of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u271	"I was a stranger and you welcomed me. It's in Matthew!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you, it happens that I too have some reminiscences in this area, but the Members of the Republic that we are may not have to make a long exegesis of some texts. As for Mrs Autain, her remarks are those of a personality who is now clearly engaged in the campaign for the regional elections, in her very recent capacity as candidate for the head of filat for La France insoumée. On his part, I did not expect nuanced and argued positions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs. Autain, you are giving my political family lessons in republicanism. To put it the way I think it is: we do not have a lesson in republicanism to receive from a political party, La France insoubted, some of which, in certain respects and in certain circumstances, do not hesitate to flirt with Islamo-leftism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u273	That's argumentation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u274	Mr Jean-Michel Clément, who spoke on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, blames us in a way for not making proposals in the economic and social fields, which would respond to the scale of the crisis in our country. However, as members of a serious and responsible opposition, we have, for months and months, been constantly making proposals on the occasion of the examination of each of the texts: the four amending finance bills, the texts on the state of emergency and its extension, the finance law, and many others. Sometimes even we were wrong to be right a little too soon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u275	It's not going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u276	... since we see fairly regularly that proposals that we defend, if they are not immediately heard or listened to, are taken up by the executive and its majority two, three, four months later. Clearly, the trial in inconsistency or in the absence of serious proposals made to the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans don't care, I'm quite convinced. Quite frankly, the amalgam that other speakers accuse us of doing when we simply express our refusal to maintain a bonus for illegality and illegality and our wish to distinguish between people in an irregular situation – illegal aliens who illegally remain in the territory of the Republic – and modest French or foreigners in a regular situation also do not stand the way, nor the confusion that you are trying to introduce with regard to our bill. Again, it is not a question of stigmatizing, but simply of demonstrating logic and common sense by correcting an article in the transport code to make the benefit of benefits such as social pricing conditional on the regularity of the stay in France. Mrs Sage has sometimes mentioned a little grandiose – forgive me, dear colleague – some great ideas about migration policy. The text we are proposing is obviously not intended to be the alpha and the omega of a migration policy. We will have the opportunity, on 16 December, to debate this subject in this House – it is indeed a request that the Members of the Republicans Group have been making very strenuously for many years. Everyone will then be able to bring their vision of what needs to be done. For us, things are very clear: we will say in a highly substantiated way that we wish to take back our destiny, control flows, determine precisely who we wish to receive in our territory and how we do not welcome all those who illegally cross our borders and settle in France for a long time. These are the debates that will take place on 16 December. Again, this bill has a specific and concrete purpose, relating to a specific code: that of transport. We want, as I pointed out in the rostrum just now, to correct a miscarriage of legislation and to affirm that the benefit of certain advantages – in this case, social pricing in transport – presupposes being in a regular situation in the territory of the Republic. This seems to us to be a logical and sensible proposal. The incomprehension of many of our compatriots with regard to the present law, which some speakers mentioned, is one thing we have also heard, which we want to relay and to which we wish to reply by amending Article L. 1113-1 of the Transport Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u277	Thank you, rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u278	I have heard Mr Millienne speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats. Again, I sincerely regret his change of foot, which is a change of course, a volte-face, a denial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u279	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u280	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] When considering the mobility guidance law, of which you were the rapporteur, you had given a personal opinion in favour of an amendment along the lines of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u281	Excellent argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u282	Pinocchio!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u283	Patrick Mignola, on behalf of your group, also expressed his support. Other amendments had been supported by Members of the Dem or Act together. It seems to us that these volte-faces and denials clearly have to do with political considerations or a concern to conform to the air of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u284	Please close, Mrs. Le Grip.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u285	At least give us the grace to consider that coherence, consistency – without punctuality – and stubbornness are on our side. I think I'll stick to that, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u286	I also think so, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u287	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...even if I would have wanted to answer the various speakers in more detail. Again, understand it well: it is not a question of stigmatizing, but simply of righting what seems to us to be logic and common sense. To ensure that it is the regularity of the conditions of residence in the territory of the Republic that opens up the benefit of certain social benefits and rights seems to us to be absolutely indispensable for the social contract that must bind us and for the message that we wish to send. In this and many other areas, regularity and respect for the laws of the Republic must prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u288	Thank you, rapporteur. Everyone will have understood that you responded to the speakers who spoke during the general discussion and that you personally give an opinion against the deletion amendments. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u289	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For the reasons mentioned several times and at length, and in the absence of new elements, the Government's opinion is in favour of these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u290	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u291	I'm amazed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u292	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u293	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The Government has just approved the position of La France insoumise and the Socialist Party that it is legitimate for the approximately 500,000 illegal foreigners living in France to benefit from a tariff reduction on public transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u294	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u295	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary of State, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, this is all absurd. In the name of what can you justify to the French that a French worker, a French employee, a foreigner in legal situation who has made the effort to ask the French Republic for the right to stay in France do not benefit from any tariff reduction in public transport, but only illegal ones, if? It's incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u296	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u297	I also wonder how arbitrations are rendered within the Government. We are rightly told – the President of the Republic is right to do so – that the time has come to fight firmly against illegal immigration and that it is necessary to enforce, throughout the territory of the Republic, our laws, first and foremost those governing the conditions under which we enter, or not, France. And you come tonight, strangely, to rally to the positions of the far left, who, she, pleads coherently to open up the valves of illegal immigration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u298	Hallucinant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u299	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applaud]] I fully understand the positions of Clementine Autain, of the Communist Party and of the Socialist Party, of this old immigrationist left, but I do not understand at all the inconsistency of the Government and of the macroist majority at this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u300	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u301	For his tenth backwards!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u302	The members of the Dem Group will, of course, vote in favour of these deletion amendments, which are defended by La France insubmissive, but also by the Socialist and related group, it is good to make that clear. Let me explain why we are making this choice despite all the respect I have for you, Mrs. Le Grip. It is true that, during the review of the LOM, I called for respect for the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. We agree on this point. But that is not what your text proposes at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u303	There's my amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u304	Even if you have tabled a withdrawal amendment, its current version does not provide for the choice of communities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Maxime Minot protested]] In addition, I am sorry to tell you, but the report of the committee you drafted completely omits the non-Francilian AOMs. Why did you only question Île-de-France? If all the AOMs had asked to be able to freely choose whether or not to apply these tariffs, perhaps our opinion would have been different, but that is absolutely not the case! In fact, through this bill, you simply gain access to an electoral order from Mrs Pécresse. We cannot adopt such a text in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u305	Mr. Minot, you're very upset!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u306	Bizarre of the organization of our debates, I have before me an amendment No. 5 containing an additional article after the single article, which states that "As of 1 February 2022, the Government shall submit a report to Parliament on the application of this Act". The "this law" no longer exists, but the word is nevertheless to Mr. Robin Reda, in support of this amendment which I will be obliged to put to the vote but which, de facto, no longer makes much sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] He could have been a last chance, for the majority, to clarify his position, rather than rallying with La France insoumise and his allies who, in Ile-de-France, are actually not much more frequent than the far right, Madame Autain. All arguments have already been made. The French are watching you. Those who aspire to live on our soil in a regular situation and to respect the laws of the Republic look at you. They have noted this afternoon that you are granting, for the umpteenth time, a bonus for illegality and non-compliance with the laws of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u309	This bizarre parliamentary procedure allows me to...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u310	It echoes the bizarreness of your text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u311	... I am very happy to say to Mr Reda that I thank him for the comments he made during the general discussion, just as I thank Mr Pascal Brindeau, who spoke on behalf of the IDU and independent group, and who, understanding very well the reasons that led us to want to correct this anomaly of our law, has also given frank and overwhelming support to this bill. As far as Amendment No 5 is concerned, I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u313	In view of the above, the amendment is not applicable. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u314	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u315	It is based on article 54. Against all odds, the two deletion amendments were adopted, bringing down the following two amendments – mine and the rapporteur's. Our Rules of Procedure allowed you, Mr President, to give the floor to more speakers. I regret that you have not done so: I, for my part, had some interesting elements to submit to the House, particularly with regard to the advent period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u316	I take note of this point of order, which I find tasty, Mrs Ménard, since I had given you the floor without being obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u317	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u318	Amendment No 5 can have a virtue: even if the text no longer exists, we can ask the Government to draw up a report on the cost to each of the communities concerned of the tariff reduction granted to foreigners in an illegal situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u319	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u320	Those who listen to us will be struck by the fact that Parliament, with the support of the Government, again gives a bonus to illegality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u321	[[Mrs Maina Sage leaves the Chamber]] I've heard enough: I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u322	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Everything's reversed. You work hard, you're a regular stranger and you've made the effort to integrate? You always pay more taxes and taxes. You fraud, you enter French territory without respecting the rules of the Republic? We're giving you a present! Understand that the country is completely upside down when, even in a case as concrete and obvious as the one that is now occupying us, tens of millions of euros are wasted at a time when the French are suffering. It's absolutely surreal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u323	As the single article and the amendment to the additional article were rejected, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u324	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u325	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u326	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to introduce a biometric Vitale Card (No. 2425, 3595).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u327	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u328	The bill that we will be debating at the end of the afternoon deals with a particular subject, Vitale card fraud. Examined in the Senate in November 2019, this text was rewritten quite significantly because, despite a commendable wish to better control Vitale cards using biometrics, this mechanism remains very difficult to implement: senators had therefore finally wished to go through the path of experimentation. As you know, the Vitale card makes it possible to establish electronic care sheets, a document that serves as the basis for the refund. However, this is not the only function of the insured person's situation. Its essential role is to manage the rights historically listed in the card, which are accessible directly and correspond to those which are opened and controlled by the health insurance funds. The fraud for the use of the Vitale card is based on a card usurpation:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u329	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u330	... a person without rights uses the card of a person with rights or uses the card of a person covered at 100% while he or she has only basic coverage. The Government hears the legitimate concerns that may have motivated this bill: vital card fraud is an important problem against which we must continue to carry out structural actions. Before speaking on the substance of this experiment, I would like to come back to you with the many measures taken over the past several years to reduce the risks associated with the issue of the card and to secure the card issuance system and billings: first of all, the creation of an opposition list, allowing the use of the opposing Vital Cards to be blocked; the introduction of the colour photograph of the insured person, both on the support of the card and in its electronic component; the existence of an inter-regime portal that avoids the issuance of a new card if the old one has not been returned or is invalidated; Finally, the end of life of Vitale cards whose holders no longer have rights or have died or have been cancelled. The work undertaken by the social security funds has, in particular, reduced the number of supernumerary Vital Cards from 609000 to 152000, a figure which is still decreasing. The creation of a biometric Vitale Card, even through the experiment that is proposed to us, poses extremely delicate problems in the protection of privacy and personal data. It is also heavy to carry out because of the profound changes it is introducing in its manufacture and use. Fingerprints are sensitive data, in the sense of the famous General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR. Their treatment for the particular case of authentication of persons requires an opinion from the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – as part of the authorisation procedures for this purpose. The question raised is that of the necessity and proportionality of the collection and retention of such data in the light of the objective pursued, which has no obvious character. I would also like to mention the financial cost and the time frame for such a measure. Again, even in the case of an experiment, they are not negligible. The use of fingerprints results in significant costs and implementation times for the collection of biometric data, for the control by healthcare professionals and for the adaptation of the Vital Card Management System. To allow fingerprint collection, each applicant should travel. However, the receptions of health insurance funds are neither equipped nor staffed to deal with this demand. Such a development would also require training of officers in the equipment that should be used. Biometric testing would also require that all health care professionals be equipped with readers to record the patient's fingerprints. This process would have a definite impact on the practitioner's relationship with his or her patient, as it would add control that is not strictly part of his or her professional practice. It is certain that beyond the controversy that this measure could create with the professionals using the Vitale card on a daily basis, funding of these materials through health insurance would be required. For France as a whole, the minimum cost would be 400 million euros according to an initial estimate, much higher than that of the quantum of fraud related to the usurpation of Vitale card. Finally, the security constraints associated with the use of biometric data by automatic processing lead to technical complexity. The creation of this new card is thus likely to substantially increase the unit price of the Vitale card and more generally the overall cost of managing the cards. It is possible to estimate the current full cost of manufacturing and issuing a second generation Vital Card – the one with photo – at around 3 euros. It would at least be doubled if the Vitale card were biometric. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we share your concern. The idea behind this bill seems right to us, but the measure appears to be somewhat disproportionate and difficult to apply. Thus, biometrics can be an interesting avenue, but probably to be addressed more gradually. Since 2009, all passports issued by the French authorities have been biometrics, as is the case in other countries such as Algeria or Morocco. An amendment adopted in the framework of the latest draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – which had been tabled by rapporteur Cyrille Isaac-Sibille provides that a retired person can, by means of a biometric certificate of existence, justify his existence without moving to the competent authority. The use of individual biometric technologies makes it possible to secure the existing control system and to strengthen the fight against fraud, a major subject given the amount of pensions paid abroad, which amounts to around €6 billion. Margins of progress are identified to avoid the risk of diversion, as noted in several recent reports, notably those of the Court of Auditors and the Committee of Inquiry on the fight against fraud in social benefits held at the National Assembly in September 2020. Biometry can, I repeat, be useful, but it must be used wisely. Rather than passing this bill, we suggest that you support a more pragmatic, and already existing, electronic health insurance card experiment. This "e-card" project aims to introduce a secure and dematerialised device, on smartphone, allowing the identification, authentication and signature of insured persons for the invoicing and access to health and health insurance services: the shared medical file, the pharmaceutical file and the teleservices of compulsory health insurance and even supplementary health insurance. This enables patients and their beneficiaries to access their rights up-to-date, in all circumstances and in a secure manner. This experiment began on 15 October 2019 in the primary health insurance funds of the Rhône and Alpes-Maritimes and in the caisses de la Mutualité sociale agricole Ain-Rhône and Provence-Azur, on the basis of volunteerism. In a context made obviously difficult by the crisis of the covid -19, 1000 insured persons volunteered to participate. The extension to ten departments in 2021 will allow for an increase in the power of this experiment, the objectives of which are multiple: to check the ability to use a mobile application in the context of invoicing, to ensure the correct integration of the Vitale e-card into the current system, to collect the perception of the users of this card and its uses, and finally to gather the information necessary to inform a possible decision to generalize. This experiment is carried out in several stages, which will be adjusted if necessary according to the feedback of experience on the ground – it is the proper one of an experiment. The first of these was initially to take place in one year, but a 12-month extension was necessary in order to have sufficient information to make a meaningful assessment of the situation. In view of these various elements, the Government will therefore not be in favour...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u331	We thought so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u332	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... to the adoption of this bill which provides for an experiment which, in a way, competes with the proposal for an electronic health insurance card.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u333	Mr Patrick Hetzel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u334	We concluded on Monday the review of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021, which confirms, for the year 2020, a deficit of more than 46 billion euros in the basic compulsory schemes and the Old Age Solidarity Fund. It's abyssal. Forecasts for the coming years are equally bleak. By 2024, we will never find a deficit of less than EUR 20 billion, unless we take measures of magnitude. This week, an OECD study showed that France remains the first country in the world in terms of social benefits: in 2019, the latter amounted to 31% of national wealth. However, we can only note the increase in the poverty rate, the structural difficulties of our health care system, and the rampant inequality in access to health care professionals throughout the country, especially in rural areas. How can we explain this French paradox: we collectively spend a third of our national wealth without effectively accompanying our fellow citizens? Part of the answer lies in the fraud of social benefits. This is the conclusion reached by the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the fight against fraud in social benefits, which I had the honour of chairing and of which Pascal Brindeau was the rapporteur. This is also the conclusion of the report by our colleague Carole Grandjean and Senator Nathalie Goulet, which the Government had entrusted with a mission on the same subject. This is again the conclusion of the report that the Court of Auditors presented to the Senate last September. In short, it is the obvious conclusion that is necessary, study after study, and which the Government has so far refused to take the measure – the end of your intervention attests to this, Secretary of State. Looking at the spectrum of all social benefit frauds, the most unbearable is probably sickness insurance fraud. At a time when many French people are delaying their medical consultations; At a time when caregivers sometimes have to prioritize between two patients, it is simply intolerable that fraudsters can pass between the meshes of the net, when it is not going into drug trafficking. What is the accounting share of this fraud? According to conservative estimates from CNAM – Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie – the fraud detected amounted to 300 million euros in 2019. It is far from the Court of Auditors' estimates, which in 2010 estimated the total amount of social benefits fraud to be at least EUR 2 billion per year. Where does this gap come from? Would health insurance fraud have suddenly been eliminated, even though the efforts made in previous years were far from sufficient? Alas, no. The explanation comes first of all from the fact that, with regard to fraud in health insurance benefits, we are operating in an incognita terra. Last September, the report of the Court of Auditors was still surprised that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health continued to "prescribe CNAM to estimate fraud in health insurance benefits". Nothing easier, not to solve a problem, than to avoid quantifying it. We cannot accuse the Government of carrying out a policy of the figure on this subject: there are no figures, no politics! Vitale card fraud, which is one of the highlights of all health insurance frauds, does not escape this general artistic blur. There is even a waltz: for example, over the past two years, estimates of the number of supernumerary cards have had no fewer than five different approximations, including two from the same source, the Directorate of Social Security. These figures could give the turnaround: the number of supernumerary cards varies between 609000 and 2.5 million! We were opposed in committee, and I believe that the argument will be used again in the sitting, that this fraud would cost only EUR 11 million, that it would in some way be a view of the spirit. Move, there's nothing to see! That was the meaning of your speech, Secretary of State. The committee of inquiry which I had the honour of chairing nevertheless managed to determine that 1.8 million supernumerary active Vital Cards were in circulation. If we assume that only half of these cards are used in terms of the average consumption of French goods and health devices, fraud could exceed 2.5 billion euros per year! This is a case of school, but we cannot ignore this problem any longer. The debates in committee confirmed that some of our colleagues had been directly confronted with attempts to fraud Vitale cards in the exercise of their medical duties. Today, more than ever, we must therefore redouble our efforts to secure our social protection system, but also to safeguard the principles underlying it. Can we still afford the luxury of considering that this is a marginal problem, when our social protection system is deprived of several billion euros every year, even when social accounts are diving? Can we speak of a non-subject, when the confidence pact that binds insured persons to the health care system is undermined by fraudsters who free themselves from all the rules and unduly benefit from social benefits financed by the taxpayer? I believe that minimizing the effects of social benefit fraud will only exacerbate its scope. On the contrary, we must take full account of the phenomenon and act accordingly. That is precisely what, together with the Members of the Republican Group, we propose that we proceed together with the proposal for a law aimed at experimenting with a biometric Vital Card, which the Government wants to sweep. The Vitale card has a strong symbolic dimension for all of our citizens, since it opens the door to health care and reimbursement through health insurance. But that is also what makes it a tool that is particularly vulnerable to fraud. Vitale card fraud comes in different forms: it can involve the use of cards loaned, stolen or lost, with the usurpation of the owner's identity, but also the use of the same card to travel around health care providers and obtain the same medicines free of charge several times. These misappropriations enable fraudsters to benefit unduly from health insurance benefits or to obtain better coverage of health costs. In many cases, these are organized gangs: yes, organized gangs, which obtain health products by means of the Vitale card, which they then sell in foreign territory. Against this phenomenon, this bill, tabled last year in the Senate, provides for the experimentation of the biometric Vitale Card, with the aim of moving forward on the path of authentication and individualization of rights. In this regard, the use of the biometric tool is particularly appropriate: it has proved its worth on our soil since the introduction of the biometric passport. Digital fingerprint storage is now the best guarantee for a secure payment or reimbursement of health insurance benefits. It is therefore relevant to experiment with it in the fight against fraud. Our colleagues in the Senate, whose attachment to fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be called into question, have worked to improve the bill in the sense of full respect for the texts governing the use of personal data, whether it is the so-called computer law and freedoms of 1978 or the GDPR, which came into force more recently throughout the European Union. All insured persons' data will be well protected according to the highest safety standards. I would also like to reassure my colleagues about the cost of the proposed scheme. You mentioned 400 million expenses, Secretary of State: of course, but for a return on investment of more than 2 billion a year! Don't you think the measure is interesting?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u335	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u336	It is precisely because the format of the experiment is proportionate and easy to achieve that it was defended by the Social Affairs Committee of the Senate. The majority opposed in committee the existence of an experiment currently being carried out by the Government in two departments, which will soon be extended. It allows for a first biometric recruitment. We take note of this, but this experiment based on dematerialization differs from our proposal on two major points which, Mr Secretary of State, make that what you are proposing is not up to the task. First of all, your device, which relies on a medium such as a tablet or smartphone, does not in any way prevent the fraud that I have just spoken to you about. It is not difficult to imagine that what is happening today with theft, loss and fraudulent loan of cards will happen just as much tomorrow with digitized files – the consequences can even be worse in case of hacking. Secondly, this experiment demonstrates that the Government assumes that all insured persons have digital support, which, as you know, is far from the case. The value of experimenting with the biometric Vitale card is therefore real: the two devices are very different, and once they are evaluated, we will be able to judge the most suitable model to secure the use of the Vitale card. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have good hope: at a time when our social protection system must be courageously defended, I want to believe that we will be gathered around the will to pursue a real policy of combating fraud in social benefits. The Government and the majority are expected on the subject. Are you going to unpack yourself again? The French are expecting something else as I speak to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u337	It is still biometrics that allows identity control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u338	In the general debate, Mrs Josiane Corneloup spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u339	According to the recent report of the committee of inquiry chaired by our rapporteur, the amount of social security contributions fraud is between EUR 7 and 25 billion. Although we struggle to account for the VAT fraudsters, their undeniable existence is an attack on the balance of our republican pact and contributes to undermining the trust of our fellow citizens in the fairness of our health system. This is a budgetary issue, of course, but also a social cohesion issue. While many French people reject their medical consultations, it is intolerable that fraudsters can pass between the meshes of the net in order to benefit unduly from care. While the use of a biometric Vitale Card may pose technical difficulties, no leads must now be ruled out in order to combat social fraud, especially in this year when the crisis of the Covid-19 has historically aggravated the deficit in our social accounts. The social security deficit is expected to exceed EUR 50 billion in 2020, and that of the disease branch is likely to exceed EUR 30 billion. According to CNAM's estimates, the fraud detected reached almost EUR 300 million in 2019, while the Court of Auditors estimates that the total amount of social benefit fraud would have been at least EUR 2 billion in 2010. We can see the total blur in which we are moving about social benefit fraud. That's alarming. While the original bill provided for the replacement of all Vitale cards with biometric Vitale cards, the Senate's scheme is less restrictive as it is an experiment. Compared to a general measure, the choice of experiment will reduce the cost and complexity of the device, which have been mentioned. The experiment, lasting 12 months, will allow health insurance managing bodies designated by decree to issue a biometric Vitale Card to the beneficiaries attached to them. It will not only test the technical and financial feasibility of this tool, but also measure its impact on the fight against fraud with regard to the use of the traditional card. Its results may also be confronted with the results of the ongoing experiment on the dematerialised Vitale map. This proposal for a law was rejected in the Committee on Social Affairs by the majority last week on the grounds that an experiment on a dematerialised Vitale card is already under way. However, it seems to me that these two devices are very complementary. Of course, the dematerialised Vitale card involves the biometric element, but only at the time of enrolment: the beneficiary is invited and not forced to a biometric identification when the card is awarded, the use of which will then be simply conditioned by the presentation of his mobile phone. That will not guarantee a strict identification! The allocation of this card based on volunteering and its limited distribution to beneficiaries with mobile media means that it undoubtedly lacks the target that our bill has identified, because fraudsters are indeed those who are urgently targeted by biometrics. In any case, the proposed experiment will be an opportunity to definitely have a more precise idea of the extent of VAT fraud. As mentioned in the report, it is part of the broader context of sickness insurance fraud. While Vitale card fraud is not the most significant in financial terms, it is the most frequent and the one that most visibly undermines the republican pact that founded national solidarity. It is therefore both a financial and a symbolic damage that this bill intends to remedy. Vitale card frauds are indeed plural. The use of the same card by several beneficiaries of sickness benefits is not acceptable in a context of public financial tension. And various parliamentary work has highlighted the opposite phenomenon, which is equally responsible for fraud: the number of Vital Cards in operation exceeds the number of beneficiaries covered by the social security funds by several million. Over the past two years, estimates of the number of supernumerary cards have seen no less than five different approximations, as Patrick Hetzel pointed out in committee, two of which came from the same source, namely the Directorate of Social Security. The figures range from 609000 to 2.5 million supernumerary cards in circulation. If the latest figures narrow around the million cards in excess, this lack of knowledge can only cause concern as to the degree of motivation of the public authorities to curb fraud. The holding of several still valid Vitale cards allows a person to benefit unduly from benefits and often feeds a resale trade, including medicines. In the spirit of the original text, it was important to maintain the mandatory nature of recruitment. At the time of enrolment, beneficiaries will be informed of the existence of a dedicated data processing and of the procedures for exercising the rights of access and rectification provided for in the Law on Computer Science, Files and Freedoms. We remain convinced that the biometric tool must eventually be used for the strict identification of the beneficiary for any use of his card in order to effectively eliminate the risk of fraud in obtaining rights. A total enrolment will thus put an end to the persistent problem of supernumerary cards. It is therefore essential to monitor the validity of Vitale cards. At present, the period of validity of the Vitale card is not systematically coordinated with the duration of its holder's rights. Thus, a beneficiary may have lost his rights while his Vitale card continues to work. Article 1ea therefore specifies that it is valid for the duration of the rights and not throughout the life of the beneficiary. This article would also apply to current Vitale cards. Vitale card fraud is largely due to a weak rights control system. Indeed, the controls carried out by the administration are not sufficient and the caregivers consider that this is not their role. Membership of health professionals is essential; It is far from being acquired and remains particularly difficult to obtain, for a control that is not part of their professional practice. The National Health Insurance Fund has strengthened the mobilization of its agents to combat this strong trend. However, the flaws in the system are immense. In view of this fact and the high cost of fraud, and because every fraudulent euro is a euro of public money not collected by health insurance, it is important to act. Health insurance fraud will continue until authentication is secured. This is the purpose of the text before us: to use biometrics to improve the authentication of individuals as part of the reimbursement of health costs. The proposed experiment must be able to answer these questions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This text has the merit of opening the debate on a necessary evolution of the Vitale card, a tool that was, when it was put in place, a real progress. I therefore invite you, on behalf of the Republican Group, to vote in favour of the introduction of this biometric Vitale Map in order to preserve our public finances and our social model.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u340	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u341	This bill is part of a policy of combating social fraud. This issue has been the subject of extensive parliamentary work in recent years, including through committees of inquiry, both in the Assembly and in the Senate. The text aims at experimenting with the issuance of Vitale cards with biometric elements by a number of health insurance funds defined by regulation. The aim here is to target Vitale Card fraud and, more broadly, identity theft that will unduly benefit from health care. If we can share the ambition to combat fraud that penalizes social accounts, we question the proposed mechanism. The introduction of a biometric element within a title granting entitlement to social benefits presupposes the creation of a specific data processing, in particular the digitised image of the recipient's fingerprints, the particularly sensitive nature of which will require important security precautions, even in the case of an experiment. However, it does not appear that the device responds to this essential question of personal data protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u342	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u343	On the other hand, for the caisses which would be authorised to distribute such cards, how will the equipment necessary for their reading be provided to healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u344	We have to ask the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u345	At the same time, the imperative nature of this experiment implies that each user must have his or her fingerprints taken in order to make his or her new card, an act which requires the equipment of the places of reception of the health insurance funds, entailing in fact a significant cost. Although the text provides relevant answers concerning the real-time updating of beneficiaries' rights or the encouragement to report theft or loss of a Vital Card, the use of biometric data does not appear necessary in the fight against social fraud. It is quite possible to carry out information campaigns aimed at users, recalling the importance of declaring the loss or theft of a Vital Card, but also the sanctions that apply in case of identity theft with the aim of reaching social rights. The same applies to the updating of the beneficiary's rights in real time, in particular for the immediate deactivation of the card as long as its holder no longer benefits from sickness insurance benefits: this measure is quite possible with Vitale cards in service. In addition, the provisions for informing health professionals involved in testing the use of biometric Vital Cards show that it is now possible to carry out information campaigns for these professionals on the control of the identity of users thanks to the existing devices – through the photo present on the card and the production of an identity document for example. It would also be interesting to know the position of the professionals directly involved in the process of checking the identity of the holder, the text saying nothing of their opinion. In addition to carrying out measures to strengthen the current system, identity control must be able to match certain realities of the use of the Vital Card. Some situations need to be taken into account, such as when a Vitale card is loaned: it turns out that it may be for necessary medicines that the user cannot himself pick up. In order to respond to these situations, a completely paradoxical system of derogation should be put in place in view of the ambition to verify scrupulously the identity of the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u346	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u347	Finally, an experiment on the electronic card is currently under way in two departments. It was extended until 2021 as a result of the health crisis. It seems appropriate to wait for the outcome of this experiment before launching a new one that would overlap with it and would require additional cost and safety features.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u348	Both are complementary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u349	Moreover, the introduction of biometrics on the dematerialised map is part of the roadmap for this experiment. We would therefore like to receive replies from the Government on the testing of the electronic Vitale Card and on the prospect of introducing biometric elements. The fight against social fraud cannot be reduced to the exploitation of biometric data, which is particularly costly, since the results of the experiment on electronic cards are not yet known. Satisfactory answers being given to us today by the Government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u350	It's all right then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u351	... the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats Group is against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u352	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u353	The purpose of this bill is to introduce a biometric Vitale Card as a new tool to combat social fraud. We can welcome the constancy of our colleagues in the Republican Group to focus their attention on fraud when it concerns individuals and not companies. Because the idea of a biometric Vitale card is not new: it was one of the promises of candidate Nicolas Sarkozy in 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u354	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u355	What, then, is the reality of this fraud which the text presents as evidence? The debates in the Senate have made it possible to minimize the amounts allocated to social fraud, and especially those relating to the Vitale card, which remain relatively low. In its 2018 balance sheet, health insurance accounted for 261 million euros of unfair repayments, or 0.058 % of the total annual amount of benefits paid by social security. As far as VAT fraud is concerned, according to the committee's report, it represents only a small amount.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u356	We're reassured! We got the wrong idea, like Brassens would say...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u357	These figures must be compared with those of tax fraud, which is around EUR 80 billion a year. If fraud is still reprehensible and must be combated, we would have liked to have received so much hard work on your part on social security contributions frauds, which have an estimated cost of between 6.8 and 8.4 billion euros for 2018, according to a confidential note from the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – ACOSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u358	Then table a bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u359	The Court of Auditors, in its report on the fight against fraud in social benefits, published last September, states that the excess of Vitale cards valid in comparison with the number of insured persons entitled to cover their health costs by health insurance would only concern certain special health insurance schemes and would be more and more limited in scope. Thus, at the end of June 2020, the number of Vitale cards validated in excess of insured persons over the age of 16 was only 152603. Moreover, the debates in committee have shown how real the disadvantages of a biometric Vitale card are. Biometric data are very sensitive and the centralized storage of these collected data would constitute a database that is particularly vulnerable to cybercrime. The measure envisaged to verify the identity of a person – through, therefore, access to a personal data register – seems disproportionate. The latter changes the nature and object of the Vitale card, while the benefit of the fight against fraud would be very marginal. On the other hand, the cost of such a measure would be very important to the public accounts in terms of its profits. The reality is that through this text you mainly target certain populations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u360	Yes, the fraudsters!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u361	...for the most part very precarious, and foreigners at the end of their rights. Thus, Article 1a, added by amendment and intended to reduce the validity of the Vitale card to the duration of the rights, introduces the concept of length of stay in the databases of health insurance, which would therefore become a new criterion for the validity of the rights linked to sickness insurance and the use of the Vitale card. This restriction would limit the benefits of beneficiaries and could result in a break or interruption in the rights of affiliates. It directly applies to holders of a foreign national's health insurance which could, from the end of their stay, be denied any benefit of their rights. If the fight against all fraud is necessary, the mechanism proposed to us therefore appears to be less relevant than one of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, namely to increase the frequency of checks in general. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] From a strict health point of view, the public health issues raised by the covid-19 pandemic demonstrate that incentives for non-use of rights and care, as well as barriers to access, cannot form the basis of an effective health protection policy that respects human dignity, continuity of care and the preservation of public health, as Médecins du monde points out. The biometric Vitale card is therefore a good false idea. That is why the members of the Socialist and Related Group will vote, as in committee, against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u362	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u363	This afternoon, we are considering a bill passed by the Senate to experiment with the issuance of a biometric Vitale Card: it would be to integrate the digitized image of the holder's fingerprints into the electronic card. You intend to remedy the frauds on the Vitale card by this individualization of the document, which would allow a faster update. On 11 February, Mrs Mathilde Lignot-Leloup, the then Director of Social Security, interviewed by our committee of inquiry into the fight against fraud in social benefits, estimated that there were 2.6 million overnumbered Vitale cards, a figure which gave rise to fears of large-scale fraud. The Action Together Group certainly does not neglect its importance, but it cannot validate the answer you are proposing. Since 2004, numerous solutions have reduced the risks associated with the issuance of the Vitale card and secured both the card issuance system and billings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u364	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u365	We can mention the creation of an opposition list, allowing the cards contained in it to be blocked, or the addition of the colour photograph of the insured person both on the card and in his electronic chip. Everyone will also recognize that the creation of a biometric Vital Card would be extremely sensitive in terms of privacy and personal data protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u366	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u367	Fingerprints are indeed sensitive data within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u368	What about passports?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u369	Their processing for authentication of persons therefore requires advice from CNIL, as part of the authorization procedures for this purpose. However, as it stands, there is no evidence of the necessity and proportionality of the purpose of the collection and retention of such data. As for the passport, it will be agreed that it is not entirely intended for the same use as a Vitale card. Furthermore, the use of fingerprints would result in significant costs and delays in the collection of biometric data, their control by health professionals, and the adaptation of the Vital Card Management System. Finally, the deployment of this new card would substantially increase its price, and more generally the overall cost of management. As you said: a "Vitale card" application is currently being tested in order to strengthen the security of uses. This scheme has a high added value in the fight against fraud; it allows the updating of rights in real time, without any interference in eminently personal data. We see every day that the use of new technologies requires a sense of balance, or even an ability to balance, in order to reconcile respect for individual freedom and security of the common good. Recent events should also encourage us to be cautious about these issues. By further individualizing our Vitale card, it is strictly personal physical characteristics that we would communicate to a database. However, we believe that any solution that restricts, even slightly, our freedom must be a last resort, in case no other option is possible. In this case, social security agencies have already invested heavily in the detection and prevention of fraud. In 2018, the amount of fraud detected by these bodies was €1.2 billion, an increase of more than 40% in four years. Even if the problems discussed and the diagnosis of characterized fraud are to be a major concern for our social protection system, you will not be surprised that the Action Together group does not vote in favour of this bill: once again, we are not at all in tune with your solution, which would, without necessity, entail additional costs and an ever greater encroachment on our individuality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u370	You have to change your name: "Acting" is not right for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u371	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Action can take several forms; The one you're proposing to us does not suit us in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u372	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u373	First of all, I would like to welcome the Republicans Group, which, as part of its own-initiative parliamentary day, placed this bill on the Orders of the Day, which was passed by the Senate. It offers the possibility of an experiment complementary to the one already existing in the field of the dematerialisation of the Vitale card, covering another system of securing this document, in order to avoid multiple forms of fraud which could lead to a number of criminal acts reported by the rapporteur, in particular trafficking in medicines. It also allows us to start the debate on the need to combat social fraud. We have heard – we will certainly hear it again during other interventions – that this fraud would be that of precariousness, difficult endings of months, therefore somewhat excusable and on which we should not dwell, as opposed to tax fraud, the fraud of the rich, the companies, against which should be dealt as quickly and vigorously as possible. I will reply to those who have this speech that these two frauds are in fact of the same nature. They constitute the same violation of the Republican Pact; We must fight each other with the same decision. Social fraud has been the subject of the work of Carole Grandjean and Senator Nathalie Goulet, whose determination to move things forward, as well as of the commission of inquiry led by Patrick Hetzel, is not, in many cases, individual, committed by precarious people, but organized, criminalized, systematized, using the flaws of French social protection, one of the most generous in Europe and even in the world, which can be regarded as an attraction for these criminal networks. That is the reality of things. Mr Secretary of State, I was very interested and rather surprised by your intervention. Unlike your minister in charge, you are not in denial: you acknowledge that this fraud can constitute an infringement of the Republican pact and a loss of public funds that we would need greatly, including to ensure the social protection of our fellow citizens in the period we are living in. However, let me tell you that the figure of 152000 supernumerary Vital Cards is a fable. Based on data from the GIE Sesam-Vitale and INSEE data for each age group, our commission of inquiry was able to demonstrate indisputably and publish in its report that there can be no fewer than 1.8 million overnumbered Vitale cards. Of course, still in this committee, we heard a former director of the CNAM state peremptoryly that these figures were no longer valid a few months later because of the updating of these supernumerary maps, and that this surplus no longer concerned the general system but some special regimes, even that of parliamentarians. You can consult the proceedings of the committee of inquiry. But the reality is different: this fraud can be massive. Any additional instrument would therefore be welcome. It is not a question of establishing biometrics everywhere and immediately, but of experimenting with it, of testing it to see if it works, as we are testing dematerialization, which also has faults. We know that Vitale card fraud is based on medical prescription fraud, since it takes both elements to commit it. I therefore invite you, as requested by the Order of Physicians, as we have been waiting for months, as Spain has been doing for years, to dematerialize prescriptions as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u374	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The IDU and independent group will obviously support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u376	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u377	After examining your proposal for a law to prohibit the social pricing of public transport for people living without papers in our territory, here we are approaching another chestnut tree from the Republicans group: the Vitale card fraud. I want to dispel any risk of misunderstanding here: social fraud in all its forms is a reality that must be combated. It takes place at the expense of citizens and public policies of solidarity. The profound deterioration of our social accounts reinforces the reflections on this subject, as it is quite normal. Nevertheless, the introduction of a biometric Vitale map was one of Nicolas Sarkozy's commitments during the 2012 presidential campaign, then taken over by Marine Le Pen: let's measure the relevance of this idea to those it inspires. However, I will not reject it without a dispassionate examination, leaving aside the fantasies it arouses. Let us look at the data: the data we have are in essence partial, mostly based on the amounts actually recovered. I invite you, however, to relativize the extent of the fraud on the Vitale card. I will refer to the very enlightening report of the Senate Committee on Social Affairs on this text. It rightly recalls that fraud in health insurance benefits is only part of social benefit fraud; 22 per cent of the financial damage would be attributable to insured persons, compared with 30 per cent to health facilities and 47 per cent to health professionals. I would add, in order for us to have an idea of the amounts involved, that fraud in obtaining rights would amount to EUR 11 million, i.e. less than 5% of the total amount of fraud detected in sickness insurance benefits. The share strictly linked to the usurpation of the Vitale card resulted in the recovery of 1 million in 2018, i.e. 0.5% of the sickness insurance fraud. We are far from the mass phenomenon that some people denounce. In addition, the existence of supernumerary cards, which often suggest the circulation of fake Vitale cards, is in fact due to the failure of the sickness insurance funds to update the data relating to their beneficiary. Let us now compare these figures to the human, technical and financial cost of a transition to biometrics. The bill originally introduced in the Senate provided for the replacement with biometric cards of all existing Vital cards, which would have taken twenty years, 400 million to hire the necessary personnel, 900 million to create the cards and 60 million to equip health professionals. These exorbitant forecasts have led the Senate to reduce the scope of the text, which now provides only for experimentation; But its cost, necessarily lower, will remain very high. Mr rapporteur, you yourself admit that you regret that so little solid data can be used to measure the extent of this fraud. Yet you rely on them to propose expensive reform with uncertain benefits. I would also like to raise the issues of security and personal data protection that it would raise. The Vitale card is used to establish rights: we can assume that health professionals will most likely refuse to verify the identity of the bearer. This does not mean that we are willing to do nothing. We await the results of the ongoing experiments on the deployment of a dematerialized vital map. We also want to assess the effectiveness of the control tools reinforced by the last two PLFSSs. The measure providing that the Vitale card will no longer be valid throughout life, but during the period of validity of the insured's rights, provided for in Article 1a, has already been incorporated into the PLFSS for 2021. But the authors of this text do not want to propose any concrete improvements in the security of the Vitale card. I believe that their purpose is different: it is to spread suspicion, to let people believe in widespread fraud, to make citizens respect the rules against a mass of fraudsters who would undermine the foundation of national solidarity. For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group can only vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u378	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u379	This bill once again stigmatizes the most fragile. Your project, ladies and gentlemen, essentially consists of a vast social regression in which the traps to poverty and misery are growing ever deeper, while social control is growing. With this concrete project, we find ourselves at the crossroads of two obsessions of the right: attacking the so-called assisted, that is, the most precarious, held responsible and guilty of their situation, and promoting a society of general surveillance. Your intentions are perfectly reflected in this bill. The introduction of a biometric Vitale Card is a gas plant, especially in the current context of a health crisis which should impose on us quite other priorities. You claim that this card would first save money by fighting fraud. It is quite enlightening to note that it is neither tax evasion nor fraud of social security contributions that interests you, but the smallest part of the loss of profits for public funds, which comes not from the richest but from a disadvantaged public. According to a recent report presented to the Senate, the Vitale card fraud itself represents "a small amount." The fraud covered by this bill concerns only EUR 11 million, i.e. less than 5% of the total amount of fraud against the health insurance benefits detected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u380	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u381	This figure is far from the amount of social security contributions fraud estimated at between €6.8 billion and €8.4 billion in 2018, even further away from corporate tax fraud – €27 billion – and in light years of tax evasion – about 80 billion each year. In order to improve the social security accounts, we should instead start by tackling the real profitors, the indecent fraudsters, that is to say those who have the means to contribute but do not have the decency to pay their dues. The financial argument is not admissible: it is a pretext for stigmatizing the most disadvantaged social groups. This bill would also confuse the Vitale card with the identity card, i.e. to add a stamp to the stamp and to restrict access to rights and health more and more. In the midst of a health crisis, ladies and gentlemen, your measure appears to be a very doubtful opportunism. What can be said, moreover, about the difficulties raised by such a system and its implications for healthcare professionals, who would suddenly be responsible for checking the identity of their patients? This frenzy of control all azimuts looks like dystopia and plunges us into a bad scenario of an episode of the Black Mirror series. Your bill depicts a society of distrust, ravaged by the constant suspicion of seeing each of its neighbours as a potential profiter, while white-collar delinquency can sleep quietly. What are you going to do next, ladies and gentlemen? If you are defending a bill against fraud representing 5% of the total amount of fraud in health insurance benefits, why don't you file a bill against abuse of the children's menu, for example? In the race for suspicion, there is never a finish line. The measure that you propose, once defended by Nicolas Sarkozy and then taken over by Marine Le Pen in his presidential program, robs the National Assembly's projector on an insect to better ignore the fawn. I therefore draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the latest report of the Court of Auditors, which is overwhelming for the results of the Government's fight against tax fraud. The downsizing of the Ministry of Finance, which is constantly being encouraged and voted on by the Republican Group, indicates a clear lack of political will that some would like to compensate for with the effects of communication and severity towards the poorest of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] It happens that we are voting today in the context of an unfortunate news, to take up the expression which the rapporteur used with regard to the expulsion of undocumented people to the Place de la République the week when the abolition of social charges for the beneficiaries of state medical aid was discussed in committee. The current situation is therefore unfortunate, since yesterday we learned that the mayor of Puteaux, who belongs to your group, was charged with laundering aggravated tax fraud after having removed 102 gold ingots from his hidden account in Luxembourg. I let everyone appreciate the meaning of the realities and priorities of your text, but let me, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, say that it is not decency that stifles the right in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u382	It's very low, as an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u383	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u384	Fraud is a poison. It is all the more so as it serves as a pretext for attacking established rights. Thus, fraud of social benefits is overestimated to justify anti-social political aims. It is used to stigmatize social policy holders and beneficiaries – some do not, by the way, deprive themselves of targeting foreigners. It is used to deny them rights to social protection and to promote the spirit of control rather than the spirit of accompaniment. Thus, the proposal for a biometric Vitale card is the very bad result of an infox, a fake news spread on different television sets and on social networks: extrapolating a control conducted in 2011, it extravagantly concludes that 1.8 million social security numbers would be allocated in France on the basis of false documents, which would cause a fraud of 14 billion euros. This would be a considerable failure, but the subsequent work largely invalidated these figures. In June 2019, a Senate information report, colleagues in the Republicans Group, estimated that the cost of document fraud was between 117 and 139 million euros for 2019, a hundred times less than the figures that justify your initiative and, perhaps, your obsession. In its 2018 balance sheet, health insurance has recorded € 261 million of detected abusive repayments, or 0.058 % of the total annual amount of benefits it pays. The increase it has seen is not linked to increased abuse but to more effective controls. In addition, this fraud is more committed by health professionals and institutions than by insured persons themselves, who are involved in less than a quarter of the total amount of fraud. As for VAT fraud as such, according to the report of the Senate Committee on Social Affairs, it represents "a small amount". So you go to the back to pick a radish. The means used are, in any event, fundamentally disproportionate in terms of their consequences for all the insured persons and their cost of implementation. It would be better to increase the number of staff dedicated to monitoring. The introduction of a biometric Vitale Card requires the collection of sensitive personal data, which poses serious security and confidentiality problems, for the sole purpose of the control. A report by the human rights defender in September 2017 denounces the drifts of this policy, highlighting the shortcomings in the definition of fraud and the abuses associated with this form of struggle, in disregard of the rights of users. You don't target fraudsters, but you make every insured person a suspect. In particular, you do not target what should probably be: organized fraud. Your proposal would multiply it without having a favourable effect on social finances. Do we want a society of widespread suspicion and branding? Is it on these bases that the relations between citizens and public authorities must be built? I would also like to invite you to take an interest in other types of fraud, which are much more serious but seem less passionate: corporate tax fraud, for example, which would amount to EUR 27 billion, tax fraud, which would amount to EUR 80 billion, or VAT fraud. (Exclaims on the benches of the LR group.) We could also mention, Mr Secretary of State, the fraud of the internal consumption tax on energy products, whose control threatens to be withdrawn from customs officers to be replaced by mere declaratory formulae. As for employers' fraud of social contributions, it would lead to revenue losses for social security funds of EUR 20-25 billion, according to a report by the Court of Auditors. This fraud of which no one speaks takes several forms: hidden work, non-payment of overtime, benefits under the status of self-employed worker instead of wage earner, in connection with the uberisation of the economy. The fight against this type of fraud, however, is of major importance for respect for work and for the sustainable financing of social security, at a time when no one can deny the health and social needs. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the amounts that are not spent because of the non-use of rights, which are also much higher; A 2016 parliamentary report, of which Gisèle Biémouret was one of the rapporteurs, referred to an amount of more than EUR 5 billion for the RSA – active solidarity income. There are far more people who do not enforce their rights than fraudsters, and that is a fact that we must not accept either. One in three persons eligible for the AHR does not apply for it, and 40% of the persons eligible for the AHR do not apply for it. This issue should be a priority for public action. There are proposals to move towards the automaticity of social assistance. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] For all these reasons, members of the GDR Group will oppose this bill. I would add that all the proposals that you have presented to us today, my dear colleagues, make up a vertiginous political programme which, in my view, highlights the need for an alternative on the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u385	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u386	Fraud of social benefits is a serious violation of the principle of solidarity. They endanger our republican pact and our social security system which, since 1945, protects every Frenchman and ensures the effectiveness of the principle of national solidarity. The fight against fraud is therefore an economic imperative, but above all a need for social justice. Over the past two years, much work has been done on the subject. They were followed by important concrete progress. This bill has the merit of being part of the logic of fighting fraud initiated by the majority since the beginning of the mandate. But I regret to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the experimental proposal you are making presents the pitfall of being already satisfied. Our majority have done work on biometrics. The new article 47 ter of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021 provides for the use of biometrics for the drawing up of certificates of existence, in the context of the payment of retirement pensions to beneficiaries residing abroad. As for Vitale cards precisely, you have already been able to observe their dematerialization as part of an experiment conducted since May 2019 in two departments. Biometric projects are therefore being developed. This work is already well advanced and the legal and technical aspects of this work have been referred to the CNIL. The process will be expanded to 10 new departments in 2021 and 2022. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to multiply experiments on the same subject. On the other hand, Vitale card fraud accounts for only part of the cases of social benefits fraud. So, rather than investing in the multiplication of experiments, let us focus on our work on data sharing and ensure that the provisions adopted in Parliament over the last two years are effective. Studies show that prevention is the best way to combat fraud effectively; it avoids unfairness and recovery difficulties. The most effective preventive measures require, first and foremost, better interaction of data between the agencies involved in the payment of benefits and a strengthening of their monitoring capacity, in particular. It is precisely with this objective that the PLFSS for 2020 was enriched by several amendments aimed, inter alia, at fluidising and making more efficient the exchange of data between social protection bodies, but also at improving the functioning of the common national directory of social protection, as well as the departmental anti-fraud operational committees. This work continued in our discussions on the PLFSS for 2021, the Assembly and the Senate, as many amendments relating to the fight against fraud were adopted, including amendments tabled by the opposition. With these new provisions, we are therefore continuing the process of exchanging information on residence permits. We also clarify the concept of undue benefits and increase penalties for fraudulent declarations, including for healthcare professionals – who are responsible for 80% of the amount of sickness insurance fraud, as our colleague Dharréville said. Among all these advances, I would like to point out the amendment aimed at coordinating the period of validity of the Vitale card with the duration of its holder's rights. Also adopted by the Senate, this amendment fully satisfies Article 1 bis of this bill. Colleagues, Members of the Republic on the move consider this request for experimentation to be satisfied. That is why they will vote against and continue the work that has been done. Of course, the effectiveness of our social protection system still needs to be consolidated, in particular through the interconnection of data between social protection bodies and the implementation of the provisions adopted by national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Information exchange systems have demonstrated their effectiveness in combating fraud, as well as in simplifying access to these services. Let us not forget that the aim of the anti-fraud provisions must also be to simplify access to rights and services for our citizens, because the right payment is the cornerstone of social justice in our social protection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u387	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u388	While this proposal, adopted in the Senate, is welcome, it still seems very timid. I regret, moreover, that the biometric Vitale Map was not introduced at the time when the Republicans were in power because, for our part, we have supported this idea for years. This proposal has at least the merit of providing for an experiment which would very quickly prove the extent of social fraud. Indeed, the most surprising thing about Vitale card fraud is probably this denial of reality by the state apparatus, which has always sought to minimize things and continues to do so. Mr. Brindeau and Mr. Hetzel had explained the situation very well and it was sufficient to read the numerous reports already prepared on that subject to be aware of the extent of the phenomenon, which was largely underestimated even by the National Health Insurance Fund, which was ostrich so as not to have to admit the scale of the economic and financial disaster. By quoting the figure of 1.8 million Vitale cards in excess, Mr.Brindeau remains very cautious, as the figure corresponding to reality is much higher. In his book Cartel des frauds, which I recommend, magistrate Charles Prats states that there would be 3.4 million phantoms taken over by health insurance on the basis of CNAM figures, and 3.6 million phantoms taken from the national inter-regime directory of the beneficiaries of health insurance. The money at stake is huge, but we don't want to see it. On the basis of the checks it carries out, the Caisse d'allocations familiales – CAF –, one of the only caisses to have taken the question of fraud in its arms, estimates that 4.2% of the benefits provided are obtained by fraud, which amounts to between 3 and 4 billion euros per year for it alone. Applying the same rate of fraud to health insurance results in extravagant figures ranging from 15 to 33 billion euros. In these circumstances, the only effective solution – all the others are just fakes intended to mask reality – is that of biometrifying the identification number of the social insured, i.e. the social security number. Other countries, such as Belgium, have already done so: why would we not be able to do so as well? Algeria has introduced a very modern biometric identity card at a reduced cost. We should do the same, because this is the only solution that makes it impossible to create multiple identities, thanks to the use of fingerprints; This is the only solution to prevent the use of the same Vital card by several people – a practice that all doctors in France are confronted with, especially in the suburbs, where the same Vital card passes from hand to hand, which benefits people in an irregular situation in particular; This is the only way to secure payments with an obligation to validate the act; It is the only way to get in touch with all the insured persons, in order to ensure the real existence of each of them. Even if it takes several years, it is necessary for every Frenchman, every foreigner in a regular situation, who contributes in France, to have a biometric Vitale card. It is only on this condition that we will be able to avoid the frauds, which have taken on extravagant proportions. While we have almost the highest compulsory tax rate and social spending in the world, we also have the most incomplete benefits. The country has been shut down for months, which will cost us 200 billion euros, because we have not been able to have enough resuscitation beds – we have three times less than in Germany or Korea. Double the number of resuscitation beds would cost only 2.5 billion euros, which is very little in view of the 5 to 15 billion we waste because France is taken for a milk cow. By fraudulently using the Vitale card, foreigners in an irregular situation are looting our nation, that's the reality! We pay off drugs, we increase the CSG – the widespread social contribution – of pensioners while some are already in a poverty pension, and at the same time we say to the whole world: "Come and treat yourself at home, it's open bar! You can cheat, it's a gift! » I'm telling you, this is crazy! We need to redeploy spending, that is, save money on waste to save the public hospital, invest in medicine and treat our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u389	The general discussion is closed. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, I invite you to reserve your answers to the resumption of the sitting at twenty-one hours. Ladies and gentlemen, before we adjourn the sitting, I want to tell you, for your information and for the proper organization of our work, that the discussion of the bills on the timing of elections, which is on the agenda tomorrow, should be concluded a little earlier than expected in the morning. As a result, consideration of the bill to reform adoption will continue as early as the morning session, following this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1104.u390	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further consideration of the proposal for a law establishing a biometric Vital Map; Consideration of the Wind Energy Development Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
