ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the 2021 finance bill (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u3	After the complete panorama drawn by my colleague Charles de Courson, I will concentrate on some of your government's choices regarding the levers of recovery. As France lags significantly behind its climate goals, you make energy renewal a major tool for recovery. We agree with this timely approach, especially since the ecological dimension of this project is added, let us recall, to an essential social dimension. On the other hand, when we looked at the amending finance bills introduced since March, we asked you to speed up the process. However, in order to combat the energy insecurity of 4.5 million homes, you will spend 2 billion euros on the MaPrimRénov' scheme over two years. Mr. Delegated Minister for Public Accounts, will this amount make a sufficient contribution to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050? We doubt it. I would remind you that the building accounts for 43% of energy consumption and that there are almost 5 million thermal colanders in France. While it is true that you are making a significant effort in the area of renovation, nothing is foreseen in the PLF for the revival of new construction. However, housing conditions have never been as decisive as during confinement. For some, housing has become both the place of life, the place of work and the place of education. In fact, poor housing appeared to be a glaring inequality. At the same time, the construction sector was shut down during the confinement period: instead of the 400,000 housing units expected to have been built in 2020 and 2021, only 300,000 will be put into production. It should be remembered that, according to economists, built housing is equivalent to two jobs; I'll let you do the math. How can you imagine an economic revival of the territories without filling in the order book of the local businesses, especially those of the building? While the basic problems of housing remain unchanged – a chronic supply deficit in relation to the needs and excessive prices of housing in tense areas – the economic crisis that we are going through must offer the opportunity to transform and amplify housing policy by combining economic demands and ecological imperatives. During the review of the amending budgets for 2020 that have been adopted since March, we proposed mechanisms to support and revive this heavily affected sector, in particular by strengthening the Pinel scheme and the zero-rate loan. We will also propose several improvements aimed at encouraging the construction of social housing, which has been halted since 2017, but also to speed up the renovation of the social park. The second point I will focus on concerns the measures announced by the President of the Republic concerning the strengthening of secularism. All the measures presented, this republican promise, can only take shape if we show our collective will and if we deploy a series of public policies. After these statements of intent, which I approve, some communities are now waiting for the additional financial and human resources they need to act. The 2021 budget must be the one that will give them the means to implement the recommendations of the suburban plan, which has so far remained the blind spot of the quinquennium. I will be very careful during the parliamentary debate to ensure that no neighbourhood is forgotten and that the presidential promise is kept. Yes, we must fight against those who want to separate from the Republic, but the Republic will not win this battle by simply saying; It will also require resources, and I am convinced, Minister Delegate, that you also have the will to do so. I will conclude my remarks by referring to the territorial aspect, more specifically to a territory dear to the Freedom and Territory Group: Corsica. As INSEE points out in a May 2020 note, the island is one of the territories most affected by the covid-19 crisis: economic activity has fallen by 35%. Indeed, the over-represented sectors on the island, particularly tourism, are also among the most affected. This health crisis of unprecedented scale and brutality for the Corsican economy requires the Government to take strong, effective and immediately applicable measures. Since June, a specific plan for Corsica has been announced; It would be time for him to see the light. Of course, the third amending finance law for 2020 contains some tax adjustments welcome for Corsica, such as the extension of the tax credit for investment in Corsica. Of course, Article 8 of the draft budget 2021 provides for the introduction of an increased rate of 35% for innovation expenditure by small and medium-sized enterprises in Corsica. However, these measures are insufficient to support a hyperspecialised tourism economy. I hope that our discussions will make real progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u4	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u5	We have never talked so much about local authorities, which are in the middle of the day: they manage the health crisis, whose local finances suffer the repercussions and they are at the heart of the recovery plan, plus the protocol of agreement between the state and the regions or the reduction of production taxes. In short, they are omnipresent. The health crisis struck businesses, households and local communities without distinction, which were at the forefront of the pandemic. The consequences for their finances are extremely strong as of 2020. The state reacted from the beginning of the crisis by taking accompanying measures to limit these consequences, precisely. The first measures were technical in nature: DGF payment – the overall operating allocation – and cash advances, or suspension of Cahors' contracts. Then, in LFR3, the state spent 4.5 billion euros on the communities most affected by the crisis. These mechanisms have reduced the impact on the self-financing capacity of communities: if we had not taken these measures, they would likely have lost 30% of these capacities, while they are expected to lose only about 10% this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u6	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u7	The revival that we are defending in this PLF cannot be achieved without the communities, which, as you know, are responsible for two thirds of public investment. However, there is a concern that such a period of uncertainty may lead to caution and attentism among communities, which would obviously be very detrimental to investment. I reiterate that in order for the recovery to be a success, we need the involvement of local and regional authorities. We need them to be the driving force behind the recovery of the economy. We need them to invest. And for that, we need to give them visibility and confidence in the future. That is why the measures contained in this PLF are consistent with those implemented by the Government and the majority since the beginning of the crisis. Once again, the pact of confidence that we have been proposing to the elected representatives since the beginning of the quinquennium is fully reflected in this text. Visibility first of all: State allocations to local and regional authorities are preserved. For the fourth consecutive year, operating allocations are stable, and investment allocations are at a record level. Let us not forget that it is largely due to this stability that the finances of the communities have recovered dramatically over the last three years, even reaching record levels in 2019: 64 billion investments and 39 billion self-financing capacities, according to the Court of Auditors. Visibility: we will support the departments whose social spending will increase the most next year, in abundance of their equalization and stability funds. We will continue to strengthen national solidarity in favour of rural areas, priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy and the most affected overseas communities, in particular by promoting the payment of grants to the ultramarine communes. Trust again: the fall in production taxes will obviously have an effect on local authorities. It goes without saying that these territories will benefit most from the reindustrialization of the country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In order to reduce these taxes, others in the Chamber would probably have chosen to involve local and regional authorities. We have made the opposite choice: we will compensate for communities with the euro, with a dynamic resource!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u8	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u9	The 50% decrease in the ACV – a contribution on business value added – will be offset by the transfer of a portion of VAT – value added tax to the regions. This measure will have a positive effect for the regions, whose planned losses under the EACV in 2021, in the order of €1.2 billion, will be completely neutralised. In the communal block, the reductions in property tax and CFE – business property tax – will be offset by a levy on government revenue. On this point, I hear the legitimate concerns of the elected representatives, for whom this measure is synonymous with a reduction in the tax lever. I understand them, but the communal bloc will also receive compensation for the euro by means of a dynamic resource. In addition, this reduction covers only 5% of direct local taxation, without in any way jeopardizing the fiscal link with the inhabitants. Finally, these losses are not likely to affect the principle of the financial autonomy of local and regional authorities, since their own resources far exceed the levels laid down by law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In conclusion, I will speak directly to the local elected representatives. Access to loans, investment grants, advances, compensations: extremely important means are at your disposal to participate in the recovery and make it a success. Our majority is there to support the most fragile communities so that they can also participate in the recovery plan. Launch the projects you are considering, which will transform our territories! Go on! The State will be by your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u10	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u11	"Whatever it takes": for once, the President of the Republic has kept his promise. We don't know where or how; We just know it's going to be expensive, very expensive. Oversized, the numbers give the turn. Since last March, an exogenous crisis has plunged the French economy into a violent recession, forcing us to pass successively three amending finance bills. Then the fall of the budget came and the calculators got excited. With this government, Minister Delegate, you will be accountable for a budget that has degraded all indicators. Can we even talk about a budget? The banknote board works at full speed while all macroeconomic markers deviate historically. I understand the need to adapt to an exceptional situation; recovery is necessary, and I give my critical support to it. However, I am concerned about your decision to open the valves and abandon the deficit control target, by accumulating daily operating expenses, sometimes outside the scope of the health crisis: excluding covid -19 expenditure, public expenditure will increase by 2.9%; It's not serious! After delaying to put in place your recovery plan, as members of the group The Republicans were the first to demand, so you rain the billions without ever telling us how they will be financed, and without consideration or control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u12	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u13	This afternoon, I heard the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery talk about gender parity in business and social dialogue: it's not what I call monitoring that there are counterpart payments for public money! The reality is that you have only one idea: to borrow over and over again. Debt, which was already approaching 100 per cent of national wealth before the crisis, now reached dizzying levels: 116.2 per cent in 2021. As a result, this year we are forced to borrow an additional EUR 260 billion from the markets. Previously, we affect the future of our children; It is now the future of our grandchildren and great grandchildren that you are threatening. As for the public deficit, it would amount to 10.2% of GDP in 2020 and 6.7% in 2021: is this a hypothesis or a hope? To date, you have put EUR 468 billion on the table, or 21% of gross domestic product. In addition to this, the 100 billion over two years of the recovery plan announced in early September. At the same time, our public funds are facing a dizzying drop in revenues due to the decline in activity. The state alone will have lost €46.2 billion in tax revenues this year. Our country's over-indebtedness is such that it becomes a serious threat to the balance of our social model. The reality is that the budgetary laxity you have shown is responsible for the situation we find ourselves in. This is a fact, France has approached the crisis in a situation of greater weakness than its European neighbours: more deficit, more unemployment, more debt, but also more taxes. Thus, we will no longer have budgetary room for manoeuvre if the health crisis continues. It's not for lack of trying to warn you about this danger; Unfortunately, it is too late. Finally, this draft budget contains inconsistent measures. Many French industrial florets are threatened. The automotive sector, for example, was already in great difficulty; You seem to want to complete it with a punitive ecological policy! I weigh my words: it is punitive! How can we understand that models of vehicles of French brands, among the ten best sold in our country, will only suffer in 2021 an increase of their malus, of 200 euros for some, of much more for others? These are often family models, corresponding to the needs of the French and which you make expensive. In this sector, your "at the same time" will have a heavy impact on employment, not to mention your disastrous fuel tax. As every year, I cannot ignore the new punishment that you had programmed, contradictory to your commitments, to the detriment of the CCIs – the chambers of commerce and industry. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I shall sum up in these terms: many risky choices, a budgetary policy that is errant and without real coherence. Economic recovery should not be our sole objective; It must be accompanied by an in-depth overhaul, an ambitious plan for structural reforms. Maintaining the hope of a rapid return to growth will not be enough this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u14	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u15	In exceptional circumstances, exceptional budget, but also exceptional deficit. The situation we find ourselves in is unparalleled in our contemporary history; Moreover, it was totally unpredictable. What was impossible a few months ago becomes possible, as by magic. This, however, evokes the barrel of the Danaides. In the absence of real reforms, there is no reason not to achieve, again and again, the same result, worse than unsatisfactory. For the time being, we must act, primarily in favour of the sectors most affected by the epidemic. I am thinking of bars, restaurants, hotels, as well as those that are less often mentioned. Last week, I had the opportunity to discuss the case of travel agencies with Minister Bruno Le Maire; the multitudes of situations they cover involve a particular listening and a real lace work. I would also like to mention the aid to local businesses. You have announced that land will be set up, with the assistance of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, in order to buy shops in great difficulty, if not closed. It's a good thing, but the city centre action plan already offers this possibility. In Béziers, we worked for this purpose with the Caisse des dépôts. At the end of almost two years of work, all studies have been completed, and the Fund agrees to enter the capital of this land company, amounting to about 50 per cent. This is very good news, but because of the lack of private partners, we will find it difficult to launch these operations quickly, so necessary in our city centre. If private banks are not encouraged to take part in such mechanisms, we will not be able to stimulate and protect the local trade. This is where we need to focus our efforts, instead of naming sub-prefects for recovery. I would also like to draw your attention to another specific sector: public works, faced with a 40% fall in calls for tender. This means in concrete terms that the company's order book melts like snow in the sun. The new building sector, in particular, experienced a real stall last year. Deputy Minister, can you guarantee us stability or, better still, the improvement of the tax framework for new construction or heavy renovation? I am thinking in particular of the extension to other regions, such as Occitanie of course, of the Breton experience of the Pinel scheme, as well as the upgrading of the communes in zone B2 to zone B1 according to specific criteria. There's an emergency! Another feature of this finance bill is the increase in appropriations allocated to the Regalian areas: more than 433 million euros for the Ministry of the Interior; More than 610 million for the justice sector, an unprecedented increase of 8 per cent. They needed it, and we will naturally be paying attention to the way in which these new funds will be deployed, in particular so that they will participate in the legitimate protection of the law enforcement forces – it is current – or, for example, in the construction of 15,000 prison places during the quinquennium, in accordance with President Macron's electoral promise. I am short of time, but I cannot ignore the resources allocated to higher education, whose appropriations increase by EUR 500 million. Bravo! I only hope that this money will help remedy a certain injustice. Only two figures: 78% of students in our academy continue their studies in Montpellier, compared with only 1.4% in Béziers. Where is territorial equality? Finally, you say that you are particularly committed to the sincerity of the finance law. So you propose to remove seven small, low-yield taxes, that's very good. But, among them, there is a tax linked to the exploitation of pornographic works. Are you serious? As for me, I would suggest that this year, again, we remove the tax niche of journalists: it would be a good signal for the independence of the press and an egalitarian measure, so you will agree, since there is no reason, in 2021, as in previous years, for a journalist, on equal pay, to pay twice as much tax as a Frenchman in another profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u18	I agree with you, however, that it is not easy for those who will question you at the end of the House! It just takes a little courage, but I don't doubt you have any!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u19	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u20	The finance bill for 2021 is historic. It is first of all because of its figures, which give rise to vertigo: a recession of 10%; a government deficit of 10.2%; a government debt of 117.5% at the end of 2020. It is also due to the place given to the environmental issue. For the first year, we have a report on the environmental impact of the state budget, as we voted last year. This report presents an environmental budget, specifying the impact of budgetary appropriations and tax expenditures entered in the Finance Act. This will enable us to evaluate these arrangements in the light of France's commitments and objectives in the field of environmental conservation. I welcome the very comprehensive work of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. It allows us to learn that so-called "green" spending, i.e. environmentally friendly spending on at least one environmental axis without being otherwise unfavourable, is up by 29% compared to the finance law for 2020, reaching a total of 38.1 billion euros. In addition, this draft finance law sets out the legal framework for the recovery plan, including the allocation of EUR 30 billion to ecology. This crisis can, and even should, I would say, be an opportunity for the French economy to take the course of the ecological transition, with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gases, protecting biodiversity and the resilience of the economy to climate change. The first focus of this component is on the ecological renovation of buildings, with measures for public buildings, social housing, TPE and SME premises, as well as private housing. I welcome the allocation of EUR 500 million for the energy renovation of social housing, which, due to the lack of investment in this area over the last three decades, is a real energy passory, with the harmful consequences for the environment and for the financial situation of the HLM organisations and, even more serious, for the purchasing power of the tenants. The recovery plan also contains measures for the decarbonisation of industry. In particular, the automotive and aeronautics industries are being offered investment support schemes to invent tomorrow's more environmentally friendly modes of transport. Special attention is also being paid, as part of the recovery plan, to the ecological transition of French agriculture, of which we are already so proud. The fight against soil artificialisation is not forgotten. Members of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats welcome these measures and, of course, support the objective of better accompanying the ecological transition. We intend, during the examination of the finance bill, to defend certain amendments aimed at going further in this direction, in particular by better accompanying the energy renovation of the buildings and the fight against the artificialisation of the soil. In this way, we will propose a set of measures on the tax treatment of building elevations and the transformation of commercial premises into houses. This text will also provide an opportunity to discuss again the taxation of motor vehicles and fuels. Our group welcomes the measures in the car plan, largely dedicated to supporting current and future green vehicles. With regard to the registration tax, we defend the extension of the ecological malus; Indeed, it seems logical to tax the most polluting vehicles at the time of purchase. Nevertheless, we would like to express our concern about the application of weight taxation, which could be unfavourable to electric, hybrid and family vehicles. I would point out that the increase in average vehicle weight is largely due to new safety standards and new equipment. We will therefore be paying attention to the proposals in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] We are also wondering about changes in fuel taxation. Some fuels benefit from differentiated taxation because they are more environmentally friendly than others. However, the revision of this tax system could result in increased taxation on fuels a little more environmentally friendly than others. We hope that the debates on this subject, which is fundamental to the environment and the purchasing power of our fellow citizens, will answer our questions and remove our doubts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u21	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u22	If I were to qualify the 2021 finance bill and the accompanying stimulus plan, I would assign them three qualifiers: late; unbalanced as regards the relationship between supply and demand policies; worrying about the level of debt – more than 115% of GDP, I would point out, and an operating deficit exceeding EUR 150 billion. They are late because we are going through an international health crisis. As we reach the crossroads, the beginning of the recovery, we enter into competition with the neighbouring countries, and we find that we leave three or four lengths behind Germany, which launched its recovery plan much earlier, as if we were late at the ignition. This delay is accentuated by measures such as the reduction of production taxes, with effects by nature staggered. We regret that you did not listen to the proposals we made in June to boost activity. This draft budget is then characterized by an imbalance between supply and demand policies. Covid-19 even serves as an excuse to bring neoliberal policies, based on supply, to a new light. I am thinking in particular of the reduction in production taxes, which raises a number of problems and concerns. The first problem concerns the staggered effects of the measure, I repeat. Moreover, it concerns only large companies or at least those intended for export. Another problem concerns the autonomy of local and regional authorities, which requires compensation for the reduction of their revenue. In addition, such tax cuts have no deterrent effect on businesses wishing to relocate, as shown by Bridgestone's example. Finally, the experience of the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – which has resulted in 90 billion euros of expenditure for only 150,000 jobs created, should be used for you when making such decisions. Improving the competitiveness of companies is positive, lowering production taxes has its virtues, in particular to strengthen cash stocks, improve the production tool or increase wages, but we deeply regret that your finance bill does not contain any measures that attempt to limit the distribution of dividends. We would have preferred to see this draft budget put in place more balanced and demand-friendly policies, in order to bring about a revival through consumption. This was more than necessary in the light of the social emergency, with more than 1 million people once again plunged into extreme poverty. It would have been opportune to distribute some purchasing power to young people, to people who have suffered from the crisis and to those who have undertaken "the war effort," as we have said. Reinvigoration through consumption would also make it possible to re-fill the company's order books. This finance bill is worrying because, I repeat, it brings the debt to more than 115 % of GDP and the deficit to 150 billion euros. A few months ago, we were told that it was forbidden to get so much debt, not to bind future generations, and we were opposed to not receiving our requests for increased funding for hospitals and EHPADs. If you are concerned about the level of debt tomorrow, I am sure that you will, as you know, re-conect austerity policies leading to the weakening of public services and the contraction of social benefits. This will be the second effect of the recovery plan. Our proposals are different. We would have preferred to look for new revenues to fund a demand-supporting policy. It would not have been indecent, in particular, to increase the product of the flat tax – the single flat-rate levy –, a tax on capital income at 12.8%, I would point out, while the first instalment of the income tax is 14%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u24	It would have been as much possible to go back to the abolition of the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth – or to ask the wealthiest households and the insurance and banking sectors to contribute more to the recovery plan. That has not been done. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] This draft budget is therefore late, unbalanced between supply and demand, and worrying. We will therefore not vote for this text and would have preferred you to listen more to our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u25	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u26	I started my business in 2010, between the subprime crisis and the sovereign debt crisis. At that time, around me, the entrepreneurs desperately sought cash loans that the banks did not grant them, the investments were at a standstill and the economic layoffs succeeded. Our economy was almost at a standstill, and entrepreneurs were moraleless. Despite the promises, the unemployment curve was not decisively reversed and young people were the first victims. Today, we face a health, economic and social crisis. To save lives, we chose to stop our economy. The State, and this is its primary role, has protected and continues to protect. It protects all our citizens by stepping up initiatives. It protects entrepreneurs, workers, young people and the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u27	All right? The poorest?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u28	But the state cannot simply protect itself. We can't just do the wrong thing in the face of the consequences of this crisis. We must be on the offensive. We must provide a fairer, more incentive-oriented framework within which we can think about tomorrow's economy. Even if the health crisis is not over, we must look beyond it and prepare for the future. We will do so by supporting investment, production and wealth creation. We will support those who act, the living forces of our country, our businesses. It is our duty to support the millions of entrepreneurs across the country who feed, dress and allow us to move, warm, entertain and educate ourselves. It would be unbearable to resolve to see them get bogged down in a crisis that would sweep away the work of a life or even generations in a few months. During the review of this budget, it is also the management of companies that the national representation must address. She must forcefully tell them that the State is engaging with them. She must tell them with conviction her determination to help them get out of this crisis. To all these people I have just addressed, I affirm: we will not let you down! The draft budget that we are defending this year is, let us be aware, of crucial importance for the future. As our majority has done since the beginning of the quinquennium, it must be able to safeguard and create jobs, to enrich the skills of employees, to strengthen the assets and strengths of our companies, to prepare them for tomorrow's challenges. The proposed budget for 2021 provides renewed support to sectors in difficulty. The automotive sector, with 400,000 jobs and 18% of the French industry, will be supported by the recovery plan. Nevertheless, hit by the crisis, automotive professionals have to adapt to the environmental requirements that oblige us. The conversion bonus, the automobile bonus and the tax credit for the installation of electric charging stations aim to accompany the transition of manufacturers, support the activity of thousands of automotive professionals and encourage the French to drive cleaner. The draft budget for 2021 supports employment and skills. The system of long-term partial activity will safeguard what counts most: the jobs, know-how, the men and women who make our companies successful. The draft budget for 2021 supports the competitiveness of our companies. By choosing to lower production taxes and corporate taxes, our majority is tackling one of the weak points of our economy, which weighs on our growth and undermines the attractiveness of our country. We cannot continue to move away from the relocation of companies and, at the same time, do nothing to retain the sites in our territory and attract new ones. We are taking these measures for the employment and purchasing power of the French. The draft budget for 2021 strengthens our export companies. It allocates EUR 274 million to support the dynamism and competitiveness of French companies in international markets. These companies spread French know-how across the globe, while creating jobs and wealth in our territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The draft budget for 2021 prepares the company of tomorrow. Companies of all sizes must continue to welcome young people and students. In order to face the challenges and challenges of the coming years, companies must now develop new strengths with well-made heads and agile hands. This is why all can benefit from assistance in hiring a young person under 26 years of age or from assistance in welcoming young people on a professional or apprenticeship contract. The crisis has highlighted the importance of the digital shift in which we are engaged. Our budget provides for an ambitious plan for the digitisation of enterprises, in particular the TPEs and SMEs. We will support those who wish to modernize their production equipment by investing in the technologies of the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the delays and criticisms of the ministers of the floor, I say this forcefully, I am proud that our majority is carrying this budget, which is exceptional in more than one way, in terms of its scale and impact. It is up to our country and our ambitions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u29	Why don't you go talk to Bridgestone's employees? They'll appreciate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u30	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u31	I thank the speakers for their proposals and their remarks, especially those of the majority, for their support, as well as those of the oppositions who have already announced that they would vote for the appropriations of the mission "Economic Recovery Plan", important for the future of our country. Mr Barrot, of course we agree with your willingness to ensure that the provisions we propose are implemented, evaluated and fully deployed. I would be very happy to involve all parliamentarians in the pursuit of these three objectives. Mrs Rabault, you referred to production taxes and questioned the Government's figures on the number of ITEs – intermediate-sized enterprises. You confuse – but perhaps the presentation of our documents lacked precision – two notions: you have retained the figure of the INSEE, of about 5700 ETI,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u32	That's the official definition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u33	... whereas we have based ourselves on the legal units, because they allow us to know, within a group, the distribution of establishments by size and sector of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u34	A legal unit is not an ETI!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u35	It's an ETI, Mrs. Rabault; I'll convince you eventually.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u36	Probably not. INSEE data are based on the correct definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u37	Let's hear the minister delegate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u38	Maybe she's not interested in my answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u39	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u40	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So let me finish my remarks. Large enterprises, which will benefit from 25% of the fall in production taxes, account for 33% of the value added created in the country; on the other hand, SMEs, which will benefit from 28% of the fall in taxation, represent only 23% of the value added, and ITEs, which will benefit from 40% of the decrease in levying, 27% of the value added. These few rates show that it is SMEs and ITEs in the industrial sector that will benefit most from the reduction in production taxes. For trade, we are looking, with the majority, for the same path to accompany economic recovery. Several measures have been taken in favour of public procurement: support for the investment of local authorities with an additional EUR 1 billion in LFR3; raising the thresholds for public procurement in order to facilitate the order, in particular for contracts not exceeding EUR 70000, considered to be of small size. To this, we must add all the provisions accompanying the recovery, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again. Mrs Magnier – other speakers have mentioned the issue after you – we are making a dynamic effort to compensate for the loss of revenue due to the drop in production taxes. For the regions, this is a fraction of VAT, taken up in the agreement between the State and the regions, which shows that the communities subscribe to this method of compensation. For municipalities and intercommunalities, we ensure that the revenue levy takes into account the dynamics of rental values, in order to ensure that they have an interest in welcoming new establishments or to encourage the expansion of those already present, hence the evolution of rental values. There is a debate on the rate, I know: it would seem quite surprising to us that the evolution takes into account both rental values and rates; in some cases, depending on the distribution of the rental values of the municipalities, this would encourage rather upward rate changes, since the effect would be largely amortised by the reductions we propose; We will have the opportunity to come back to this during the discussion. Many of you, Mrs Magnier and others, have spoken of the chambers of commerce and industry. I will repeat what I said by presenting the text and what Bruno Le Maire had said before me. Some parliamentarians, belonging to all groups, expressed concern about the ability of the KICs to cope with the downward trajectory of tax resources agreed a few years ago, during the discussions leading to the adoption of the PACTE law on business growth and transformation. We wish to maintain this trajectory: that is the meaning of the PLF as we have deposited it. We have heard the concerns expressed and the debates in the Committee on Finance: we have opened a dialogue with CCI France, which ended today after moving forward last weekend. CCI France has issued a press release to welcome the agreement with the Government, which will lead us to smooth and dampen the downward trajectory, with a ceiling of 349 million for 2021 and 299 million for 2022. At the same time, the chambers of commerce are committed to pushing the spotlight on issues of reorganisation and mutualisation of the performance of their network, and to continue to mobilize within the framework of the recovery plan, with indicators relating to the number of companies accompanied, shared evaluations and other structural and organisational issues. That seems to me a good balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u41	But their charges increase with the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u42	In the coming hours or days, the Government will table an amendment to include in the Finance Act the conclusions of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Chambers of Commerce. This will ensure that everyone is reassured and satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u44	Perfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u45	Mrs Cariou, who is no longer here, has asked us about the counterpart. I will reply to her when the amendments she has tabled on this subject are considered. In any case, I contest its interpretation of the distribution of the benefit of the production tax cuts, as they benefit both the secondary sector and the companies we consider to have to help because of their size. I thank Mr Holroyd for his comments and for his participation in the preliminary discussions on various subjects, which allowed us to move forward in committee and during the preparation of the amendments. We will have the opportunity to follow up, through amendments, on the work he is carrying out on behalf of the La République Group on the move. Mrs Louwagie, I said in the Committee on Finance how the 100 billions are distributed. On the one hand, 14 billion credits are not directly the responsibility of the State: for 5.7 billion, they are the responsibility of BPIFrance and the Bank of the Territories; for 8,7 billion, from UNEDIC – in terms of participation in the long-term partial activity – and from social security. On the other hand, 86 billion come from the state: 20 billion tax cuts over two years and 66 billion credits, of which almost 37 billion for the mission "Economic Recovery Plan", already mentioned much, 11.5 billion new credits for the IAPs – investment programmes of the future – and 16.5 billion made up of some appropriations voted in PLFR3. And let us not forget, because this is the main thing, the appropriations entered in the traditional budgetary missions of the ministries, which we felt were more effective, the typical example being that of the additional appropriations allocated to integration through economic activity, which are directly included in the tasks of the Ministry of Labour; This is also the case for higher education and research. All in all, you're back to 100 billion over two years. All commitment authorities are open, but the chronicle of payment appropriations will take into account the actual implementation of the plan and the willingness to commit and spend $50 billion by the end of 2021, so that this plan is massive. On the other hand, Mrs Louwagie, I'm afraid you've caused a little confusion. You have allocated the revenue levy for the European Union to the financing of the recovery plan; But that's not the case, you should know. The main cause of the SRP's impact on France is the re-allocation of the former contribution from the United Kingdom to the Member States as a result of Brexit. Indeed, it was acknowledged that the EU budget would not fall after the UK's exit. Another cause is the multi-annual financial framework agreed by the Heads of State and Government, which provides for a more dynamic budget path for the European Union than usual. The recovery plan is therefore not the major cause of the SRP's resuscitation. I found myself in the words of Mr Jean-Paul Mattei – as well as those of Mr Barrot – and I know how to count on him to debate taxation, as every year, which will allow us to make progress on certain points! I therefore thank him for his contribution to the debate and the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u46	Mr. Mattei's right sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u47	You too, Mr. Bricout!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u48	Mrs Pires Beaune, you have intervened, like Mrs Louwagie, on the 100 billion; My comments concerning the two-year delay and the rate of disbursement of payment appropriations in relation to commitment authorizations were mainly directed at you. As far as taxation is concerned, Mr Cazeneuve responded indirectly by pointing out that we were only talking about 3.3 billion out of a total of 45 billion euros in the EFC. I cannot imagine that this is likely to call into question fiscal autonomy as strongly as you have implied. Moreover, we can discuss the fiscal autonomy of local authorities, which does not exist in law: only financial autonomy is recognized by the Constitution. This could give rise to a broader debate on the financing of local communities. Mrs Lemoine, you have raised some rather close issues. You did well to highlight the contributions of Jean-René Cazeneuve's report, which was very useful to us in the preparation of the PLFR3. We will have the opportunity to see, both by some of the provisions that we propose and by amendments tabled by Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve or by the Government, that this report is also very useful in preparing the follow-up for local authorities. I'm sure we'll find each other. As Mrs Mathilde Panot has been absent, I will reply to her during the debate. Mr. Pupponi is also absent. I wanted to reassure him: an additional 2 billion for private renovation represents a doubling of the budget for this project over the next two years; It seems to us to be in the right shape. I answered you, Mr Cazeneuve, by referring to your report at the moment. You know that we will continue to work and move forward to refine certain devices. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Dalloz, your comments may serve as language for me to respond to the amendments made by your colleagues, or even by yourself, when you propose spending during the parliamentary debate. I think it's a little easy to yell at the wolf about debt and deficit while continuing to offer tax niches or additional spending. We will not fail to return. At the beginning of your speech, Mr Fabien Roussel – forgive me for not answering you until now, when you were higher on the list of speakers –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u50	[[Smile]] ...you took us on a dreamy journey that reminds me of Jean-Jacques Goldman's song He was changing his life. Unfortunately, the third verse was a little less fun and less exciting than the first two verses... This is no big deal since it allows for a margin of progress. I am confident that, if you stay with the first two verses, you will find your dreams again in some of the measures we have taken. In dreams, it is sometimes the unconscious who speaks. I hope to convince you of the validity of our measures relating to emancipation, education and support for work. Mrs Ménard, I have already answered in part about public works. We will have the opportunity to talk again about the land and the link with the city centre action plan. I hear your comments on the mobilization of the private sector. We have some means, and the recovery plan, with the multiplication of land, may be able to respond to it. I assure you, the tax on the production of pornographic works does not pay anything. We do the housekeeping in taxation: when an existing device does not have a base, the readability orders to delete it. I thank Mrs Fontenel-Person for her remarks on the green budget and for her commitment to the issue of energy renewal of public buildings in communities and the state, but also to the issue of social housing. We will have the opportunity to return to the MaPrimeRenov device. The need to broaden the target was raised; We hear it, especially as we propose to apply it also to collectives, condominiums and social housing. Mr. Bricout,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u51	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u52	Ah! I do not share, as you can imagine, your assessment of an imbalance between supply and demand policies. It is quite surprising to hear you talk about "austerity policies" even as we are implementing a €100 billion recovery plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u53	In a second phase!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u54	... after a period during which the State replaced private companies to guarantee the level of wages. The OECD – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – stresses that France is the country that has best protected the purchasing power and income of employees. We have spent $8.5 billion on salary upgrading and invested $6 billion in the health care system. The State has ensured the best protection of the population through 100 per cent care. Funny austerity! We don't have the same definition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I thank Mrs Motin for the vigour of her speech. It was useful to conclude the general discussion in this way, recalling that our primary objective is to support the economy, development and employment: the main objective of the finance bill is to support the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u55	I now call the clauses of the 2021 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u56	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u57	I will address an issue that may seem very fragmented with regard to the major budgetary balances, but I cannot speak without mentioning the situation of the affected communes of the Upper Nice country, the mountain areas of the Alpes-Maritimes. I talked about it this afternoon with Mr Bruno Le Maire. As we discuss the state's revenue and then, in a few days' time, its expenditure, I would like to address the situation of companies that have lost everything and are in a situation of absolute distress: forty-seven communes are concerned, of which a dozen are more severely involved. They are mainly small businesses, traders and artisans, who need national solidarity, exemptions from tax and social contributions and moratoria on their debts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] The President of the Republic referred to figures: several hundred million State commitments. I hope that you will have an appropriate response for those companies that are making an alarm call, and that national solidarity will be expressed in practice in this budget. On behalf of all those who have been cruelly affected and lost everything, I hope that the State will live up to this challenge, which concerns a very small territory in relation to national issues. The nation would demonstrate its strength by responding to this call and the need for solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u58	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u59	I shall be brief, but I do not wish to leave Mr Eric Ciotti and, through him, the businesses and the inhabitants of the Alpes-Maritimes unanswered. On the one hand, as the President of the Republic has said, the State will respond. As you know, Mr Ciotti, a first inspection must be carried out in order to carry out an assessment of the damage to the public heritage, in addition to the first assessments that have already taken place. During his visit, the President of the Republic made commitments, in particular concerning the immediate release of resources for reconstruction assistance. On the other hand, with regard to the tax deadlines due to businesses and businesses in the affected territory, there are arrangements for the first time to carry out maturity extensions and, in a second stage, to reduce or even cancel the notified amount of the tax. These devices are likely to apply after natural disasters of particular violence, such as the recent earthquake in Creuse. We will, of course, examine this request and ensure that companies whose premises were destroyed by the disaster are not constrained by deadlines, in addition to being deprived of activity and income. On this second subject, too, the State will respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u60	I have before me four amendments, Nos 436, 680, 682 and 419, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 436.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u61	This amendment, which I table annually with different figures, illustrates my disagreement with the Government on how to calculate the structural and cyclical components of the public deficit. Before the crisis, you tended to reduce the amount of the structural component to imply that your economic policies were effective. Since the crisis, on the contrary, you tend to increase the amount of the structural component and reduce the amount of the cyclical component. Each year, however, the European Commission carries out its own calculation of the structural component of the government deficit. My amendment seeks to take up its figures, because it applies the same method of calculation to all Member States, and thus to opt for another view of the public deficit. The amendment also aims to change the total budgetary balance in order to take into account the two INSEE announcements of 6 October: a growth of 0% in the fourth quarter of 2020, which was not anticipated since your finance bill is based on a recovery in growth this quarter; consumption is expected to decline in the fourth quarter of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u62	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 680.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u63	I, too, table a similar amendment every year. The paradox of your approach lies in the fact that you refer, in the explanatory statement of your finance bill, to section 7 of the Organic Act of 17 December 2012 on the programming and governance of public finances. It was necessary to dare because, whatever the economic context, you do not follow the trajectories on which France has committed itself. Moreover, you choose not to reduce the structural deficit. The current health and economic crisis is cyclical, not structural. For many years, we have condemned you for not embarking on structural reforms. Look at the number of officials in the perimeter of the State: it has not decreased at all, it is extraordinary! You have made no structural effort; This is the reproach we make for you. I will be very comfortable defending our amendments, Mr Delegate, because they will not be excessive, because they would be of a nature, as we have shown in the past, to have a real effect on reducing public spending, which is absolutely not what you are doing. It is even increasing by more than 9% this year, while I would remind you that Cahors' contracts, which concern local and regional authorities, foresee a maximum increase of 1.2 % in operating expenditure. The State should demonstrate that it is capable of doing the same within its own perimeter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u64	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 682.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u65	It is intended to alert the Government and the majority to the fact that the deterioration of the structural balance is too severe. The opening article shows the nominal result for 2021 – a deficit of 6.7% – but we feel that you have organized the figures so that the structural deficit increases and the cyclical deficit decreases. This would mean, on the one hand, that the country has finally emerged from the health crisis – of which I am not sure at all, given what the indicators say – and, on the other hand, that you have not carried out any structural reforms that would reduce the state's public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u66	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 419.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u67	The finance bill and this introductory article were drafted towards the end of August,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u68	To the ladle...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u69	... at least with regard to the latest adjustments. However, we are now back in mid-October, and, unfortunately, the health crisis is experiencing a resurgence that is both very marked and very rapid. Observing indicators, such as prevalence rates or positivity rates, we can even say that things are exploding, that curves are exponential. We therefore see the cyclical indices deteriorating, to the point that the assumptions on which the finance bill was based are now outdated. So what I am proposing to you, with this amendment, which I would call "moderate", is to take account of this deterioration by increasing the cyclical deficit by 0.2 percentage points, which would increase the balance from 6.7 % to 6.9 %.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u70	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u71	This would be a limited increase, knowing that every day we see things getting worse. Mr Deputy Minister, since four amendments have been tabled on this subject, could you give us the Government's assessment of the end of 2020 and the year 2021? May I also make a suggestion? For my part, I don't know what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u72	No one knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u73	There are people who think they know, I don't know – it's a great chance not to know. Would it not be appropriate to draw up a mobile budget, with a firm tranche and a conditional tranche, which would allow us to make adjustments. Some countries have. A flexible budget would allow us to create margins and adapt to a changing and unpredictable world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u74	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u75	In my turn, I will answer Mr. Ciotti first. I, too, am fully supportive of the affected region. This is a very good illustration of the fact that, while we are discussing the draft budget for 2021 and the recovery plan, it is also a matter of adopting very short-term measures, applying at the bottom of our country, in our territories, to businesses or citizens in need. It is this permanent "at the same time" that we will have to try to keep in mind this fall during the entire budget review. With regard to these amendments on balances, we have a discussion during the examination of each budget text, whether it be the PLF or the PLFR. The question is more for the Government than for me, but I would like to retain Charles de Courson's observation: we do not know what will be done in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u76	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u77	Thus, macroeconomic forecasts, whether they relate to the government, structural or economic balance, which are already uncertain in nature, are more so than ever before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u79	I therefore find it rather difficult to blame the Government for giving figures that will probably have to be reviewed in a few months or even weeks. I do not know what the figures will be, not more for fiscal year 2020 than for fiscal year 2021. All this is therefore to be taken with tweezers, and the Government is certainly the first to recognize it. We do not know whether the recession will eventually be 10 per cent in 2020. We hope for an improvement, but the economic situation can still deteriorate if new health measures are to be taken. In short, as long as the health crisis is not behind us – and it is not at this stage – all macroeconomic forecasts, including cyclical and structural balances, will be totally uncertain. We must therefore take the necessary step backwards. That being said, I agree with you on one point, Mrs Dalloz and the others: the structural balance is to be observed with great attention, and, as I said this afternoon in the rostrum, the recovery plan will only be useful and effective if we take care to maintain a serious and controlled structural balance. However, in the summary statement of one of your amendments, Ms Dalloz, you mention a gap between the structural balance of 2021 and that provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018-2022, which we had adopted at the beginning of the quinquennium. But nobody here, and it's normal, was able to imagine what was waiting for us. There is, of course, a considerable gap, which we will only be able to catch up with a new programming law, which I hope will take place as soon as possible in 2021. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u81	I would add a few words to those of the rapporteur-general, saying that I agree with his arguments. First of all, the idea of the mobile budget, Mr de Courson, may be attractive, but I am not sure that it is respectful of either the LOLF – the Organic Law on Finance Laws – or the powers of Parliament with regard to the appropriation of appropriations. We cannot present such a mobile budget; This would not be very legible or necessarily allowed by the texts that frame our work. On the other hand, I fully subscribe to what Laurent Saint-Martin said with regard to the programming law for the years 2018-2022, which was adopted at the end of 2017. As we said during the review of PLFR3, this programming law must indeed be reviewed and updated, and there is no reason why our opinion has changed. As regards the evolution of our growth forecasts, I concede that we maintain the assumption of a 10% recession, the one we presented to the High Council for Public Finance. I have in mind, as you certainly did, that many of us were then accused of being too cautious, since the Bank of France had published the scenario of a recession of 8.7%, and many analysts were slashing at a growth rate of -9 and -8.5%. But we had made the choice, with Bruno Le Maire, to retain the rate of -10%, on the one hand, because we had some incentive and, on the other hand, because we wanted to be cautious. The evolution of the health situation shows that we are probably never too careful in this area. That is why we are sticking to the scenario set out in the explanatory memorandum to the finance bill. Finally, with regard to the level of the structural balance, I cannot allow it to be said that at the beginning of the quinquennium, we would have sought to reduce the structural component of the deficit and then revise it upwards at some point. You remember that in 2017, Ms.Rabault, we increased the structural component of the deficit by -1%, as indicated in the 2017 Finance Act, to -2.1% in the 2018 Finance Bill, driven by a desire to energize the public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u82	Of course, but we had already corrected the rate before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u83	You make a number of arguments, using the European Commission's methodology to challenge our encryption. However, you know that this methodology can be challenged since, in the report you published in 2016 in the context of the public finance policy debate, you indicated that you had personally called on the relevant European Commissioner to ask him to review the European Commission's method. Perhaps this revision of the method should be carried out, that you are challenging and on which we also have doubts, rather than relying on it for the sole purpose of calling into question our forecasts. Our scenario is credible, we rely on it to establish the budget for 2021 and we want to maintain it. I am therefore against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u84	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u85	The colleagues who have tabled these amendments raise a substantive question. Indeed, we are beginning to look at the finance bill in a health context that is deteriorating a little more every day and whose economic consequences are already noticeable in many sectors, including those that, during the summer, had been fuelling the hope of being able to recover from the first phase. The French have seen millions and billions of euros spread in promises, which continue to spill, because you have made the choice, which we approve, to support the economy so that it does not collapse completely. In 2020, it took Parliament three times to pass amending finance laws to allow these exceptional expenses, which we did.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u86	There'll be more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u87	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u88	It would therefore seem particularly legitimate to me that, as we debate the 2021 finance bill, you took into account the situation in which we are: it was no longer a surprise, we can, at least in part, anticipate the consequences in order not to embark Parliament and the French on a path which you know in advance will not be tenable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u90	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u91	The debate on cyclical and structural deficits, which we have at each beginning of the PLF, is interesting. Mrs Rabault, you are proposing to recalculate our level of structural deficit by opting for the European Commission's calculation method. I would remind you that, when you were in power, your majority kept asking for new methods of calculating the structural deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u92	I then tabled an amendment of the same nature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u93	When you say that we are changing this year's calculation method, you suggest that we are trading the numbers a little bit. I had the curiosity to click on the link you indicated in the summary statement of your amendment, of which I thank you: the differences in calculation did not seem fundamental to me; I have seen above all differences in assessment, assessment, concerning the impact of income elasticity, concerning the taking into account of interest rates, concerning the assessment of the effects of the CICE on public expenditure... Mrs Dalloz, I would like to point out that the crisis has affected our potential GDP – a theoretical figure – because we have lost jobs, because our technical capital has deteriorated and our production capacity has decreased.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u94	But they resist better than expected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u95	By the same token, we are increasing our structural deficit. The macroeconomic forecasts of real GDP, potential GDP and structural deficit take into account the great uncertainty of the climate in which we operate – Brexit, American crisis, health crisis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u96	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u97	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore necessary to be much more measured.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u98	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u99	I would like to add to what has just been said. I started working at the Ministry of Finance on September 1, 1992, in the team that prepared the growth forecasts. We had forecasted growth of 2.6% for 1993. But a few weeks later, the referendum on the Maastricht Treaty took place, and you remember the events: the rates that rise to the ceiling, the growth that goes into a cabolade. Result: negative growth of 1%. It has been twenty-eight years, and this debate is still a chestnut tree that comes back every year: should the growth forecast be 2.2% or 2.3%, that of the deficit at all or so? Uncertainty is now at a historic level: in 2020, we may be between -5% and -10%, and I will be careful not to be more precise for this year as for next year. Does that mean nothing should be done? Certainly not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u100	We may not record these forecasts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u101	Let us give ourselves reasonable, quantifiable, achievable objectives for things that can be assured and eventually piloted. From this point of view, this budget is well done: it states that the objective is to return to the level of activity we had at the beginning of the year in two years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u102	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u103	Obviously, if the wave is harsher, the rebound will have to be stronger; If for happiness the hollow is a little less deep, then we will have a little less to climb up. It also sets concrete expenditure targets, thanks to the recovery plan. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would therefore prefer that we focus on these issues, which we control, rather than sneezing for hours on growth forecasts, of which only one thing is sure: they will be false.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u104	We're not pampering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u105	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u106	On the contrary, these issues seem very important to me – not to sneeze about a growth forecast that nobody knows anything about, but to debate our country's macroeconomic policy. Macroeconomics is not a big word, it's not a techno word! This is what makes it possible to create leverage effects in the French economy. Of course, we all agree that the current situation is catastrophic, and no one will claim to be right about any growth forecast. But holding this debate on what in the French economy is a matter of cyclical difficulties and structural difficulties, and wondering why our economy does not turn to 100 % of its capacity, seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u107	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u108	If we don't have it now, we'll never have it! This week, we will discuss for square hours the appropriateness of applying the VAT rate of 5.5% to everything that is possible and imaginable, whereas with this introductory article, we are at the heart of the diagnosis to be carried out on the economy. It's not luxury to spend ten minutes. As far as the structural deficit is concerned, it is techno, I recognise it – and I said it last year. I have tabled this amendment several times, including during the previous parliamentary term. And I did write to the European Commissioner. The European Union's methodology has one advantage: it is the same for all Member States. I criticise her, Mr Labaronne, you are right: she is critical, for many reasons. But it allows us to compare ourselves, in the evolution of the cycle, with other countries. In this year of crisis, it makes little sense, I agree. But for 2018 and 2019, then when the recovery is really there, it's really interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u109	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 718 and 1270. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 718.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u110	My amendments Nos 718 and 721 are identical to two other amendments tabled by President Woerth. He'll introduce them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u111	The President of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor to support Amendment No. 1270.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u112	This amendment, as well as the following amendment, No. 1272, are appeals amendments – appeals for help, almost, for public finances in great difficulty. I have the impression that the Government underestimates the seriousness of the situation; Many speakers have made the point, and they are not necessarily mistaken. No one said it was abnormal to spend a lot in a crisis situation, and we obviously accept it. We must, of course, compensate for the losses. And we also accept that we go further, and that the recovery includes a share of investment. But there is one component of the expenses that you propose to us that is not acceptable: they are those that relate to the normal functioning of the state. When you increase the budget of the Ministry of Justice as you do, or when you revalue the salaries of a number of professional categories without having discussed the organization of services, you are in a classic perspective, and in a rather lax background. On the contrary, you should concentrate spending on reviving our country. And all this translates into debt. Identical amendments Nos 718 and 1270 try to highlight this phenomenon, from a fairly simple ratio, the ratio of the state deficit and net tax revenues. In July 2020, when the government's forecast deficit was €225 billion, this ratio nearly reached 100%. In 2021, according to your figures, it will be 56%; it is about 80% for the year 2020. It had so far remained, on average, between 20% and 25%. It's considerable: how do we get out of such a gear, and in how long? These 117 per cent of debt may be bearable for some time, but not for a very long time, especially with 2.9 per cent increase in volume expenditure, excluding crisis expenditure. As for the following identical amendments, Nos 721 and 1272, they bounce back on the debate we have just had: they ask that, in such a volatile and unpredictable situation, the budget be accompanied by scenarios – a quick exit from the crisis or a longer exit – which would show how each of these scenarios would affect the great balances of our public finances. The Court of Auditors has done so, and we have taken up its tables: there are ten points of difference between high and low assumptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u113	Thank you for closing, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u114	This budget is a non-budget: it will not be implemented, it will be amended as successive financial bills are amended. We should have had a full debate on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u115	The identical amendments No 721 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz and No 1272 by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance were therefore defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two sets of identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u116	These amendments raise useful questions. The former relate to the state deficit – actually very degraded in 2021, even though it improved significantly in 2021 compared to 2020. We finally come back to the question of the path of restoring our public finances: these are political amendments, not technical amendments! We must, it is true, show what this path can be. For me, it is clear: with this stimulus plan, with investment alongside the economic sector, with companies, the recovery of our public accounts must be achieved through the fastest and most powerful possible recovery of growth. We must do everything possible to ensure that France regains the strongest possible growth by 2021. We are on an 8% recovery in 2021, and that must be the course we keep in mind in every amendment, every article we vote on. Only in this way will we draw a credible path of repayment of our debt. That's what's at stake! We have been indebted to deal with the crisis, and we must not say anything else: we have been in debt as a matter of urgency and for recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u117	To give gifts to the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u118	Debt is being repaid, and we will only be credible if we demonstrate our ability to recover compulsory levies from state funds through growth. Everything that will promote growth will be good to take. I am asking for these amendments to be withdrawn, since they are appeal amendments, but I share the concern of the chairman of the committee on debt repayment and the need to show that we are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u119	Blood and tears!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u121	The work that awaits us in the coming months is twofold. We will have to boost the trajectory of public finances on the basis of the effects of the crisis and what we have known about it in recent months: that has been said, the law of public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022 is no longer in line with reality, and we have a form of obligation, at least moral, to revise it. It also requires reflection on the very nature of the indicators we consider, or in any case on new ways of measuring the effects of the policies we conduct. We are encouraged by the question of cantonment, which has arisen in the debate on public finances. The ratios proposed to us will most certainly find their place in the discussion, without the need to adopt them in this PLF. We are working on this work. Request for withdrawal, in the case of appeal amendments, and with a view to future work for which no one can exonerate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u122	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u123	I note that the majority and the right agree to put the issue of debt and deficit at the centre of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u124	Yes, because it is essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u125	I did not find the precise reference, but I am sure, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, that I heard you say, when President Mélenchon and I defended the transformation of the current debt into perpetual debt, that everyone knew that we would never pay the stock of the debt... However, debt repayment seems to be the big problem again tonight! I observe that if you had not organised since the beginning of the quinquennium the loss for the state, to the benefit of the richest, of 45 billion euros, the debt would not be so large; I also note that we would not be here either if, in the name of debt, you had not cut public spending by 78 billion, causing us to lose the capacity that we so badly missed at the time of the crisis of the covid, which has found a state, and in particular a health service, very weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u126	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u127	I will quote a liberal economist, Patrick Artus, chief economist of Natixis. On 9 October, he published a note in which he explained that the ECB – the European Central Bank – "will keep these public debt securities on its balance sheet, will not resell them, and will renew them at maturity. This public debt held by the ECB is therefore free of charge for States [...] and non-repayable [...]. It is therefore quite wrong to say that the public debt will have to be repaid," contrary to what you say. Patrick Artus even advises governments, as long as the ECB monetizes public debts, to make the public investments they deem necessary very quickly. It's a neoliberal who tells you! It would be better if – as we have made the proposal – the ECB lends directly to the states, so as not to be subject to a reversal of the markets in terms of interest rates, even if today everyone likes to lend to the states, simply because we are not bankrupt, as our rapporteur said yesterday in the Sunday Journal and contrary to what you said for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u128	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u129	We are not in the situation you describe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u130	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u131	The issue of debt and the recovery trajectory of our public accounts are important. In this regard, I stress three points. Firstly, in the face of this massive debt, we must be rigorous in terms of budget implementation and control of public expenditure. Secondly, we must at the same time be bold in our transformative action, continuing to reform our country and to support businesses in their ecological and digital transitions. Thirdly, as macroeconomic forecasts are volatile, we must remain very cautious. This prudence, audacity and rigour are essential conditions for our credibility in the management of public finances, at a time when we need to restore confidence to economic actors, whether they are households, entrepreneurs or investors who finance our debt. We have to be bold, rigorous, careful...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u132	[[Smile]] Agile!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u133	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... in order to ensure the sustainability of the debt, this is the essential point. This will be achieved if we demonstrate that we are able to continue to reform, to manage our public finances well and to exercise prudence in macroeconomic forecasting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u134	It's all over again! You just illustrated my point perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u135	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u136	The introductory article is important, since it sets out the macroeconomic assumptions used for the construction of the budget; They are, in a way, the basis of it. The forecast is worrying: the projected deficit for 2020 will represent 43 per cent of the budget expenditure, and the forecast for 2021 will represent 34 per cent. To finance this large deficit, borrowing is used. But where it hurts, it is that France borrows to finance not investment expenditure, but operating expenditure. Now, if you can understand that the French borrow to buy a vehicle or another durable property, you can hardly imagine that they do so to go to the restaurant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u137	That's what I said in the interview published this weekend by The Sunday Journal...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u138	These assumptions were probably used at the end of August. However, the ongoing deterioration of the health crisis is likely to have an impact on the economic crisis, especially as the measures that so far maintain companies under infusion – aid from the Solidarity Fund, partial unemployment, state-guaranteed loans – will come to an end. If a number of indicators deteriorate, Minister Delegate, will you agree to review the macroeconomic assumptions and, therefore, the construction of the budget, until the new reading of the finance bill, knowing that we will adopt it definitively around December 18th?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u139	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u140	President Woerth's amendments invite us to reflect. During the reform of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, I had proposed that the State budget should be presented in the same way as that of municipalities, departments and regions, distinguishing between an operating section and an investment section. I was denied it on the grounds that it was dangerous. I only got a schedule to the finance bill that presents revenues and expenditures in an operating section and an investment section. However, in this case, what does the said schedule tell us, which appears on page 208 of the bill? State operating expenses: EUR 421.4 billion. Operating revenue – listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen: 296 billion! State operating deficit: $125 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u141	It's a problem with recipes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u142	There are two main revenues: management products, for 24 billion, and taxes, for 271 billion. In order to balance the operating section, before amortisation – knowing that there are none in the state budget – all taxes would have to be increased by about 50 %, which would mean, among other things, raising the VAT rate from 20 % to 30 % and increasing the marginal rate of the upper income tax from 45 % to 50 % or 60 %.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u143	[[Smile]] Lenin, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u144	As for investment expenditure, it is only 24.7 billion euros – remember! – compared to 421 billion operating expenses. In other words, the State is no longer even able to maintain its heritage. I would like to add one last point: in 2021 we will issue 260 billion euros of Treasury bills to finance the deficit and repay 129 billion euros. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] This is the state of our finances. It's just awful! Do you know what would happen to you, Minister Delegate, if you were mayor and had such a budget voted? You would be sent to the Regional Chamber of Accounts and your municipality would be placed under guardianship!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u145	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u146	You say, Mr. Coquerel, we never repay the stock of debt. In reality, we pay back and borrow again, which is very different.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u148	The idea that my colleagues in the Republicans and myself are trying to argue is that the level of debt will vary considerably depending on the scenario that will be realized. In the first scenario, your debt will reach 107 per cent of GDP by 2025. In the second, it will reach 116 per cent of GDP by that date and, in the third, 126 per cent. I have not invented these scenarios, they are those of the Court of Auditors. In other words, if the circumstances are unfavourable, the debt will be higher by 20 points of GDP. In this case, it will not be the same State, nor the same budget, nor the same decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u150	In a period as uncertain as this one, we should be able to discuss it, because the question of taxation will arise in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u151	Yes! We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u152	It is for this reason that I propose to indicate, in the introductory article, a ratio between the government's budget deficit and tax revenue. You say you won't raise taxes. I really hope that will be the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u153	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u154	The state needs revenue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u155	On the one hand, you do not want to discuss the different possible scenarios. On the other hand, you increase operating expenses, in addition to the expenses necessary to cope with the crisis. This form of letting go will force you at some point, if you still exercise your responsibilities at that time, to ask yourself the question of taxation. But it would be better to put it down right now. As for the cantonment of a debt, we know what this gives: the CADES – Social Debt Depreciation Fund – will be extended until 2033, and more so affinities! Moreover, the Court of Auditors has just told you that we should transfer to CADES not 136 billion euros, but 186 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u156	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u157	The horizon for the repayment of social debt is therefore very uncertain. As for the deadline for the repayment of the "covid debt", it will be 2042, said the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. In my view, this makes little sense, because it would mean that there would be no crisis by 2042. Who can believe it? I would like the Government to have all these elements in mind. We should be able to discuss this much more thoroughly. This should have been at the heart of the budget forecasts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u158	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u159	Mr Coquerel, when I say that the debt must be repaid, you are talking to me about the ECB's balance sheet. It actually buys back about 30 per cent of our state bonds in the secondary market, but that means that our debt is 70 per cent held by private international creditors, and we need to indicate a course of action. Admittedly, in practice, these creditors lend us again; We're "rolling the debt." But, even though Mr. Patrick Artus' analysis would be fair, the logic of these creditors is not to keep the State bonds they bought almost perpetually in their balance sheets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u160	So we are dependent on the markets!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u161	What a power for financiers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u162	Moreover, the ECB has never referred to a perpetual retention of sovereign debts in its balance sheet. In fact, if that were the case, it would be unnecessary to cancel them, as you requested in a motion for a resolution. It would be irresponsible and guilty to show the slightest willingness not to repay even one euro of what we have borrowed on the financial markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u163	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u164	The consequence would be a penalty for the cost of debt,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u165	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u166	...what you're not talking about. Moreover, the debt burden is the only variable that appears in the state budget – this is not the case with the capital to be repaid. That is why it is important to control interest rates. Agence France Trésor is one of the most efficient services in the world in the search for the best interest rates at auctions. One additional point of interest due to a risk premium required by investors would be an additional EUR 2.5 billion the following year, and a cumulative EUR 30 billion over 10 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u167	So there are people who speculate about debt? How amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u168	However, 30 billion is little or no debt burden, that is to say, what we repay each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u169	Thank you, rapporteur-general...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u170	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Let us be aware that what counts is the cost of the debt. Moreover, the interest of the cantonment of a debt, if there were to be only one, is precisely to seek the best conditions for financing that debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u171	You're feet and fists tied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u172	You too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u173	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u174	The Government agrees with the rapporteur-general: we consider debt to be repayable, and the financing conditions he mentioned are absolutely essential. We must preserve the conditions that France currently enjoys; It's a strong point. With regard to the trajectory, the High Council for Public Finance described our forecast of a recession for 2020 as "precautionary" and the forecast for 2021 as " plausible". He considered that the public balance we have forecasted was "affectable." As I indicated to Mr de Courson, when we assumed a recession of 10 % of GDP for 2020, many of us criticized our prudence, with other figures being put forward, in particular 8.7 %. Rather, it reassures us, if I may say so, about our ability to withstand the shock if there is to be a very strong further deterioration as a result of the epidemic. You asked me, Ms. Louwagie, if we would be willing to revise the growth forecasts that formed the finance bill between this reading and the new reading. In substance, I would like to respond positively, but in form it would be contrary to the Organic Law on Finance Laws and the Organic Law on Public Financial Programming and Governance of 2012, which states that growth forecasts must be submitted to the High Council for Public Finance, in accordance with the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. As you know, whenever we have had to do this – for the introduction of each of the amending finance bills, for the public finance policy debate, for the construction of the 2021 finance bill – we have never hesitated to change the growth forecasts in one direction or the other, depending on the evolution of the situation. I do not want us to have to do this again and, if that were to be the case, I would of course prefer that the amendment be positive and favourable, rather than the other way round. I repeat: on the form, there is an impossibility; on the substance, we will obviously make adjustments whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u175	We are considering the first part of the finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u176	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u177	Traditionally, Article 2 seeks to raise the limits of income tax brackets in order to neutralize the effects of inflation. We will make a number of amendments in this regard. Remember that income tax was created in 1914, in pain, to finance the war effort. President Macron referred to a war when he spoke of the crisis of the covid -19. Given the serious economic consequences that will hit businesses and the serious social consequences that will hit our citizens, it would be fully justified to take exceptional measures. At present, the income tax scale is four instalments, compared to thirteen in the 1980s, and the marginal upper income tax rate is 45 per cent, compared with 72 per cent in certain periods. This finance bill contains very few social measures. Article 2 is one of the few that tends to give our fellow citizens some purchasing power. Amendment No 438 seeks to raise the limits of the tranches not by 0.2%, as provided for in the text, but by 0.8%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u179	First of all, let me make an introductory statement on income tax, which will be valid for all the amendments. I am not in favour of amending the income tax and associated tax niches in this FLP. Indeed, we reduced the income tax by €5 billion in 2020, which was a significant decrease, which led to a continuation, and an unprecedented move in favour of household purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u181	A loss of revenue for the State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u182	Moreover, Article 2 re-aligns, as is customary, the scale of the 0.2 per cent tranches, i.e. the level of inflation. The PLF and PLFSS of the last three years already included long-term measures for purchasing power – an increase in social minimums such as the minimum old age or the allowance for disabled adults as well as the activity premium – which we will not return to. [[Clarifications on several SOC and GDR panels]] Today, in the face of the crisis, households need fiscal stability. If, for the vast majority of them, they have spared more than usual,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u183	For those who could!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u184	...some have been more severely affected by the crisis and have been impoverished: they deserve temporary and exceptional social measures, such as those we adopted in the second amending finance law for 2020. [["Very good! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] Given what our priorities are – tax stability for households and lower taxes for businesses in support of investment and employment – I am therefore against this amendment, even though its objective is commendable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u186	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u187	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u188	Mrs Pires Beaune is asking a real question. Income tax revenue is estimated at €72.7 billion for 2020 and €74.9 billion for 2021, or 2.3 billion – or 3% – increase. This is a much higher figure than the increase in the wage bill, estimated at 1.9 billion euros – I refer you to pages 13 and 14 of the finance bill. So there's a problem. It is obvious that if you re-evaluate the scale based solely on inflation and without taking into account the increase in purchasing power, you dop income tax, that is, you increase the tax burden on those who pay it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u190	This amendment is therefore entirely reasonable by proposing an increase of 0.8%, i.e. 0.2 percentage points for inflation and 0.6 percentage points for the increase in purchasing power, given that the latter is estimated at 1.7% for the wage bill, which is the largest component of the base.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u191	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u192	I am very much in deep disagreement with the rapporteur-general. It is not a question of undermining tax stability, but of warning that all governments are being taxed because they do not sufficiently revalue the income tax brackets. In doing so, you are going to make the income tax of the French who, until now, were exempt from it. The 0.8% increase proposed by this amendment does not come out of a hat but from an INSEE study published on 14 August, which revalues annual inflation on the basis of what was observed from July onwards. It is on this precise figure, as close as possible to economic reality, that we rely on to avoid the fact that French with relatively low purchasing power become taxable or artificially change tranches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u193	[[Smile]] That's right! There's a reasonable woman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u194	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u195	We have sympathy for the amendments of this kind, even if we did not wish to table them in open session. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] For the sake of clarity of the debate, I should like to point out that the LexImpact simulator, which we now have, makes it possible to estimate precisely the cost to public finances of Mrs Pires Beaune's amendment, which amounts to 800 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u196	800 million euros are paid by the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u197	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u198	[["Yes! »on the benches of the SOC Group]] Our colleague has just put forward an argument in favour of this amendment, making it clear that under Article 2, an additional EUR 800 million will be collected from French revenue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u200	[[Applause on several SOC benches]] The raising of thresholds is not up to what it should be. We will therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u201	I have two amendments, No 1369 corrected and 1896 corrected, which may be subject to a joint debate. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1369, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u202	I heard earlier that we need to avoid the tax laissez-faire. The least we can say is that, if you let it happen, since the beginning of the quinquennium, it is in favor of the richest! I would like to point out that the 45 billion euros of tax cuts first benefited 0.1% of the richest French people, who each saved 86290 euros a year, and this amount reached 1.2 million for the first hundred. A tax revolution or, at the very least, a profound tax reform that prepares the world after must not ameliorate the standard of living and purchasing power of the majority of the French. This morning came out a study which shows that the 20% of the most affluent households teased, during the crisis, 70% of the growth of the financial assets accumulated between March and August 2020, while the 20% of the most modest French people could not save more than usual and thus could not form a low wool. With unfair taxation, you only give the same people, those who have so much money that they can no longer consume it and save it, while you take it from those who could boost consumption. That is why we are proposing a reform of 14 tax brackets. This would allow our taxation to become a little more redistributive. I said, if the 10% of the poorest French people have seen their gross income grow since 2017, these same incomes have declined after redistribution; This means that taxes today have the opposite effect of what they are made for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u203	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel. We understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u204	The restoration of fourteen tranches would make it possible to benefit 91% of the French and penalise the remaining 9%, those who put their pockets full.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u205	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 1896 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u206	Mr General, you are inflated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u207	[[Smile]] No, I lost five pounds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u208	You call for fiscal stability while, for two years, you have lowered the taxes of the richest, removed the solidarity tax on wealth and the exceptional contribution on high incomes, and put in place a tax shield.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u209	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u210	And now we should not touch anything, as poverty increases in our country and the rich have never been so rich! Really, you're swollen! We do not want to increase the taxes of the French; We want to increase the taxes of the richest. In the current context, it is a matter of tax justice. That is why, through this amendment, we are taking up a proposal for a law which was tabled by the Communist deputies and which consists of introducing eleven instalments in the payment of income tax in order to reduce household taxes to medium and modest incomes. Thus, a single person earning 3900 euros net monthly – which is a correct salary – would see his taxes drop. The simulator at our disposal shows that this amendment would not reduce the revenue of the state, which is not the case of what you are proposing – all because you have made the choice to exempt the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u211	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For more justice, we want to maintain the level of revenue but ask the richest to participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u213	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u214	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u215	Mr Roussel, I can hear that I'm a little stubborn, but I don't think I'm inflated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u216	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u217	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I do not think that reducing the housing tax for 80% of French people is inflated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u218	Half the French do not pay the housing tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u219	Nor do I believe that reducing income tax by EUR 5 billion for all taxable households is inflated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u220	Those who criticize are deflated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u221	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With an income tax that is probably the most redistributive compulsory levy in the world, we cannot say that we live in the country that taxes the poor the most.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u222	An income tax with only five tranches cannot be the most redistributive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u223	I therefore assume to defend a certain fiscal stability in this period of crisis. As far as the amendments are concerned, beyond the fact that the former proposes a final 90% marginal, totally confiscatory and unconstitutional tranche, their drafters seem to have forgotten that the 10 % of the most affluent taxpayers pay 70 % of income tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u224	Yes! They're the richest who pay the most!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u225	So we can agree, rigorously, on the fact that there are not enough slices,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u226	It's not a slice problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u227	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...but I cannot let it be said that the tax is not progressive and that it is not redistributive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u228	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u229	By the end of 2020, household taxes will have fallen by 20.1 billion euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u231	...and they will continue to decline next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u232	In households, there are the richest, like Bernard Arnault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u233	There's Fabien Roussel too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u234	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In these EUR 20.1 billion are the 10.3 billion reduction in the housing tax for 80% of households, knowing that to be part of this 80% of households, it is enough to earn less than EUR 2500 per month for a single person, which is not the sum with which one becomes rich in this country. It also includes EUR 5 billion in income tax cuts, with a concentration on the first two tranches, and EUR 4 billion in tax and social exemptions on overtime, which are mainly made by workers and employees. This means that out of the EUR 20.1 billion in tax cuts to households, more than EUR 19 billion has benefited the middle classes and the working class. It's not a rich policy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u235	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u236	The cost of the previous amendment was estimated at EUR 800 million, which means that if the instalments are not revalued at the same speed as inflation and wages, people who were not subject to tax will become taxable and pay an additional EUR 800 million of taxes, which they were not paying this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u237	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u238	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u239	But this applies to all slices!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u240	I'm not saying otherwise. I am simply saying that a revalorisation of the tranches which corresponds to economic reality and takes into account both inflation and wage growth would avoid making certain persons taxable or causing them to change their tranches. You will have to assume when you see them arriving in your permanences to ask why they are suddenly taxable, when we are in the midst of a crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u241	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u242	We are talking about global taxation and you are responding to us about income taxation. What you say is wrong when the issue is dealt with at the level of overall taxation. Since the tax brackets were gradually lowered, income taxes have become less and less redistributive and increasingly beneficial to the rich. All the statistics show that. From the point of view of overall taxation, what you are saying, Mr rapporteur-general, is not true: in terms of percentage, the richest are better off than the French average, including better than the poorest French. These are the INSEE figures I mentioned earlier concerning the last decile, and on which you do not reply, because the figures are stubborn – and, in this case, they are obvious. But let's go back to the gifts you've made, including the €22 billion for households. First of all, these 22 billion have benefited the most wealthy of households,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u243	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u244	...as I showed earlier about savings. Second, they did not benefit all those who do not pay income tax, just as the removal of the housing tax did not support half of the French who do not pay it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u246	I repeat, and all the figures show, that your policy has continued to help those at the top of the pyramid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u247	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u248	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u249	The 14 tranche solution does not provide an answer to everything, but it would at least make the income tax more profitable and fairer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u250	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u251	I have before me an excellent interview with Bruno Le Maire at the Trombinoscope, in which he states: "There is no room for dogmas in times of crisis. There's only room for efficiency. However, the study cited by Éric Coquerel that 70% of the savings accumulated during confinement were by the most affluent indicates that an income tax adjustment is required. In times of crisis, we must be able to mobilize resources. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several SOC benches]] There was a long debate earlier on debt – will repay, will not repay –; there was a debate on the level of public expenditure; There is no debate on revenue. Yet we need a different distribution than the one you're proposing. We simply propose another distribution of wealth – wealth we need to get out of the crisis, you keep saying it. Well, go to the end and get out of your dogmatism on the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u252	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u253	Ms. Rabault is right to say that, if we do not raise the threshold for income tax entry, we are bringing people into the first tranche. On the other hand, the revalorisation on the whole scale you are proposing is retrogressive, instead of being gradual: out of the 800 million euros, 450 million euros would benefit from the last decile – and that is normal, since it is on the last tranche that most of the sums committed are involved. Therefore, by raising the threshold for everyone, you increase inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u254	You can table a subamendment! On the other hand, we have tabled another amendment which does not have that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u255	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2371.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u256	It aims to increase the rate of the professional expense deduction applicable to 2020 revenues from 10% to 15%. Indeed, the professional costs of our citizens have increased in recent months as a result of the health crisis that we are going through – here I am talking about energy bills, equipment costs and the purchase of mandatory masks. I therefore propose to raise this rate to 15%, while retaining the ceiling of EUR 1265 in force, so that the increase in professional costs is taken into account by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u258	Just as I am not in favour of changing the income tax schedule, I am not in favour of raising the rate of the lump sum deduction for professional expenses. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u260	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u261	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u262	The rapporteur-general, that has little to do with it. On the one hand, there is the income tax scale, on which we explained that, without revalorisation, you would make middle-class or popular-class populations taxable; On the other hand, there is what Mrs Guion-Firmin proposes, and which calls for a substantive answer. The amendment is intended to take into account the increase in professional expenses incurred by some French citizens who have had to make additional purchases, by raising the rate of the corresponding tax deduction from 10 to 15 per cent. This is not a matter of dogma. It is a question of whether you agree, in substance, with the diagnosis made by my colleague. Do you think, yes or no, that professional fees have increased for a certain category of French? Either you deny it, and we can discuss it – perhaps the diagnosis is wrong – or you agree with it, and then we have to explain why you do not have the logical consequence, especially since by keeping the current ceiling, my colleague limits the budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u263	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u264	I may have spoken too briefly, but what is certain is that raising the package from 10% to 15% is in fact a tax reduction that represents a significant burden on the state. I'm not in favour of a tax cut at this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u265	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 439.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u266	It is intended to eliminate indexation for taxpayers with the highest income tax bracket. Article 2 aims to neutralise the effects of inflation 2020 on income tax; The health crisis has already disproportionately affected our fellow citizens in the most fragile situations, and any boost is good to take. However, we believe that taxpayers who pay the highest income tax – which, as a reminder, represent less than 1% of the population – must make their fair share of the economic recovery, especially as they will be among the main beneficiaries of other measures of this budget, without consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u268	Taxation, in particular household taxation, is not just a matter of tax revenue for the State; It's also a message to the public. When we say that we do not increase the taxes of the French, we do not increase the taxes of the French. I understand the more symbolic than budgetary nature of your proposal, and I am not saying that it is absurd or totally meaningless. I am simply saying that there is nothing clearer and simpler than a good message: no tax increase for the French in the face of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u270	We want to, and we will. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u271	All right! It's clear, clear and precise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u272	Bernard Arnault will return it to you a hundredfold!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u274	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u275	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u276	Earlier, I was shocked by the amendment in which the members of the Socialist and Related Group proposed linear indexing for all tranches; It proposes the abolition of inflation indexation for high incomes. I think we should have a long-term reflection on these differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u277	Here's a reasonable man!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u278	At one time indexation was modulated; This modulation was abolished in a finance law about 15 or 20 years ago. It is a reflection that we must carry out, without crushing certain households under taxation – we saw quite folkloric rates earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u279	Earlier, we proposed a marginal rate of 48% for the last tranche. It's not crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u280	The same applies to the 15 per cent increase in the occupational expense deduction. What bothers me is that we lack imagination about income tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u281	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u282	It's a philosophical question. Earlier, by rejecting Mrs Guion-Firmin's proposal, you refused to reduce the taxes of the French who, by working, incurred additional costs. Now, you refuse to raise taxes for the 0.1% of the most affluent French. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The philosophy is very different from one amendment to the other: on the one hand, you refuse to return their money to the people who contributed most during the crisis of the Covid-19, through their function; on the other hand, you agree not to increase the taxes of the richest. You have a strange conception of tax justice! What we are asking you is to return the money to the French who contributed the most. These Frenchmen, they were the ones who worked during the crisis of the covid -19, not the ones who spared.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u283	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u284	I agree with Mr Mattei's remarks. We had quantified the amendment in question with a linear revalorisation, but we have tabled other amendments which deal more specifically with each tranche and which we will then consider. I invite our colleagues in the majority who do not want to believe me on the impact of revalorisation to refer to the impact study, in which the Government writes: "In the absence of indexation of the income tax scale to take account of inflation between 2019 and 2020, the income tax return would have been increased by about 230 million euros in income for 2020. The Government recognizes that the lack of revalorisation constitutes a real increase in taxes for all French citizens. What we add to that is that the revalorization in the bill does not correspond to the economic reality of the country. As a result, you are de facto increasing the income tax by 800 million euros. I fully accept Mr Mattei's remark that we could have calculated the revalorisation by instalment. But the essential thing is that you will see the people who will tell you in your permanence: "I don't understand, the Government says that it does not increase taxes, and yet I have become liable for income tax. What's more, a year of health and economic crisis! It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u285	You're a thousand times right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u286	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u287	He is in the direction of Mr Mattei, who will no doubt be pleased with it. It proposes a fifth instalment of income tax, increased by four points compared to the previous one, which would concern only 0.1% of the most affluent French. The Government is not pleased with the best people, but we believe that they should be involved in the recovery effort. I take the opportunity to return to the removal of the housing tax, which you sell to us as a tax reduction. But in the end, since it is compensated in the municipalities, it is simply the transformation of a local tax into a national tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u288	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u289	We have to pay back the communes, and we do it by taking it from the common pot. First mistake. [[Applause on several SOC benches. – Mr. Eric Coquerel also applauds]] The second mistake is that 20% of French citizens are not yet exempt from housing tax; this exemption will be made by third parties between 2021 and 2023. That means that we Members will be exempt from one third of the housing tax. I find this indecent. I am prepared to pay my home tax normally; When we can make an effort, I think we have to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u290	What about equality with respect to taxation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u292	Unfavorable. To use Fabien Roussel's expression, you're inflated, Mr. Bricout! To say that removing the housing tax to the French is to transfer a local tax into national tax, is a little strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u293	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u294	Have you seen the national tax increase for households? No, he's down. At the same time, the government's public balance has improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u295	With what money?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u296	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Look at the numbers! Have local taxes decreased? Yes. Have national taxes increased? No. Has the French public balance improved? Yes. Do the math.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u298	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u299	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u300	Mr Bricout is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u301	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u302	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u303	Did we raise taxes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u304	You compensate for the removal of the housing tax to the municipalities on the basis of the 2017 rate: very well. But with what money do you finance this? The general budget of the State! Of course you've increased the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u305	Not even!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u306	For sure, since you pay this off with the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u307	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u308	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u309	Of course I do! You cannot say that the debt has not increased. Yes or no, has debt increased between 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u310	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u311	Of course you do, Mr. Rapporteur-General! Open your eyes! And I am not talking about the current year, which is an exceptional year; We won't blame you for increasing it this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u312	These are all gifts on credit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u313	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u314	Clearly, if you pay compensation to the communities, you'll have to take the money somewhere – unless you don't intend to pay it back... [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I recall that the state still has a debt of 4 billion euros to the departments for the RSA, the income of active solidarity. Of course, 4 billion euros! Go tell the departments that this debt doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u315	And how many years have we not done anything about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u316	There are two solutions: either, as Valérie Rabault says, debt; either – and this is the solution that you were actually choosing – the reduction in public spending. But the decline in public spending means that you give the French what you take in their pocket. Indeed, when you cut public spending, you reduce all the solidarity mechanisms that serve the most disadvantaged of our fellow citizens, in the first place, but also the middle classes. It's a game of fools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u317	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u318	I support the rapporteur-general's comments on the phasing out of the housing tax. All municipalities have found that the removal of this tax for 80 per cent of households has no effect on the twelfths of their taxes, which shows that the compensation is integral. We have done this while reducing taxes and improving the public balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u319	Above all, you have reduced the efficiency of the public service!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u320	I would add that between 2018 and 2019, for the first time in ten years, we collectively stabilized the debt-GDP ratio.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u321	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u322	With regard to community compensation and the fears expressed by Mr Coquerel – but perhaps this is actually a matter of desire? –, you have to be precise. When we developed the housing tax compensation system, we allocated state tax shares to communities. It is therefore not, in the strict sense, a question of compensation or an allowance. These dynamic tax shares are not a variable that could be used every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u323	Until now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u324	In fact, this is the first time a government has compensated for a tax exemption from the communities by dynamic tax revenues – this had never happened before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u325	I hope it lasts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u326	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You'd better congratulate yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u327	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 206, 384, 684, 882 and 1630. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u328	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Le Fur's amendment aims to support families by raising the family quotient ceiling to its 2012 level. Lowering it has largely penalized them. They need solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u329	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 384.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u330	One thing is certain: for middle-class families, income tax has increased since 2012. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to return to the method of calculating the family quotient in force in that year. Lowering the cap on this tax advantage has severely penalized families because it has resulted in a very sharp increase in the amount of income tax, with implications for their purchasing power. The middle classes are always the most contributing, proportionally, to the national effort – many of us will agree on this. This poses problems of sustainability, for these families, and of consent to tax – it continues to erode. The aim of this amendment is therefore to lower the tax burden on families, especially the middle classes, and to improve their purchasing power, but also to remind the Government that no tax measures for families have been adopted since the beginning of the quinquennium. We cannot finish this Parliament without voting one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u331	What about parental leave? Isn't that a measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u332	Amendment No 684 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u333	I would add this to the arguments put forward by Mrs Bonnivard and Mr Cinieri in favour of families: in 2020 they were put into difficulty. In many of them, the children remained at home throughout the confinement, so the parents had to attend school, with the remote support, of course, of the teachers. Parents have made a significant contribution to activities and teachings, replacing teachers. We have to support the families. This amendment would contribute to this by bringing the family quotient ceiling back to its 2012 level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u334	Turn the billboard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u335	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 1630, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u336	I consistently defend this amendment, which aims to restore the method of calculating the family quotient applied before 2013, to support families and the birth policy of our country. This is an opportunity to recall the fight we fought here, with Gilles Lurton, to save this foundation of our family policy that you wanted to call into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u337	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u338	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u339	Mrs Bonnivard, if I may correct you, middle class taxes have declined since 2012, especially since 2017. You have to be precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u340	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u341	And it's thanks to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u342	No, I can't let that say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u343	As for this series of amendments on the family quotient, be careful. I did some simulations with LexImpact to evaluate their effects – it will please our colleague Jean-Noël Barrot. Only families with three children and a monthly income of at least EUR 7000 would benefit from the scheme, which would therefore only concern the rather wealthy groups of the population. This is not the priority during this crisis. Furthermore, Mrs Louwagie, you are right, confinement has created additional burdens for a number of families. That is precisely why, in the second amending finance law for 2020, we voted for a commitment authorisation of 890 million euros for the most precarious families, whose children had to feed at home, when usually they could eat in social-priced canteens. So we helped families well during confinement, but they were the poorest. It was, I think, the choice to make. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u345	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u346	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u347	I am speaking under the control of the Deputy Minister, since the rapporteur-general's data does not seem to be accurate. For couples with two children with annual incomes of up to €50000, taxes fell between 2012 and 2017. The Deputy Minister, who had voted with me in favour of the budgets for these years, will be able to confirm this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u348	Oh, yes, that's right! He's a former socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u349	He even voted against the first budget of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u350	He's not a sling, but almost!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u351	On the other hand, during this period, it is true that families made up of a couple and two children whose income exceeds EUR 100,000 per year experienced an increase in the amount of income tax, as a result of the reform of the family quotient. It all depends on what is called "middle class". [[Applause on several SOC benches]] In any case, between 2012 and 2017, for families with incomes below €50000, income tax fell from €600 to €700. Mr General, I invite you to reread your tables or to ask the question to the Deputy Minister, who had voted on the finance bills that related to these income tax cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u352	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u353	We have already had this debate under the previous legislature...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u354	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u355	... since our socialist colleagues made the mistake...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u356	It's not one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u357	... to lower strongly and continuously – they have done so in several times – the ceiling of the family quotient. [[Mrs. Stella Dupont raises her hand. – Laughs]] [[New laughter]] Some say that it is necessary to use fiscal means to encourage births. Frankly, the argument is not admissible. May those who had children because the family quotient existed raise their hands! No one... yes, there is! A woman of silver... Birth support is not a good argument to justify the family quotient. The central argument in his favour is that it is a sign, within the framework of family policy. Indeed, the cost of the child is much higher than the amount of this benefit, even with a high ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u358	Besides, it's not just money in life!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u359	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u360	[[Smile]] It's true, it's not just money in life. Love is better, for sure. The minister delegate is a little embarrassed, because he belonged until recently to the Socialist Party and has therefore voted in favour of these reforms – at least he is constant in error. However, the ceiling has not been lowered again under this legislature; it is no longer being touched. Let's compare two families with the same income, but one without a child, and the other with two, three or four: the family quotient is an element of an overall balance. The Socialists were wrong to touch it. I will therefore vote in favour of these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u361	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u362	If these amendments are interesting, it is not because the scheme is part of a policy of inciting birth – Charles de Courson's comments, at the moment, are struck with the seal of common sense. It's a matter of family policy. During this quinquennium, you have taken various measures concerning families, according to your views on this matter – I am thinking of the LDC or abortion last week... But today you could show a real will in favour of families! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Throughout François Hollande's presidential term, we blamed him for not loving families. We may have to think the same way about you: if you want to show your attachment to families, you have to translate it fiscally. The raising of the ceiling of the family quotient would be a sign, while our birth will reach the level of that of Germany...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u363	We're a long way from it! That's not the case at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u364	You are historically always very optimistic! The reality is that the birth rate is declining.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u365	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u366	I am always very surprised to see the major proposals for the support of the birth and the demographic and therefore economic dynamics of our country swept away with a turn-around. On the contrary, we should find ourselves on these demographic issues that affect the future of our country and its economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u368	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u369	The MODEM Group has in the past regularly tabled amendments to raise the family quotient ceiling by EUR 100. We therefore understand the spirit of the identical amendments supported by our colleagues in the Republican Group. However, they aim to raise the ceiling of 766 euros, which would cost 2.7 billion euros, of which 2 billion for the last decile alone, according to the estimates produced by the LexImpact simulator. Such an ambition to return to the 2012 ceiling is therefore likely to unbalance the overall income tax architecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u370	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u371	I wanted to reply to Mrs Rabault, who left us, and to Mr de Courson: everything is fine for me, be assured! I'm perfectly comfortable. In support of the rapporteur's remarks, I would like to remind Mrs Rabault that, during the previous parliamentary term, we increased taxes on families and households by EUR 12 billion in 2012 and EUR 14 billion in 2013.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u372	But then we lowered them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u373	I remember all the votes, which may distinguish me from those with whom I sat. The tax burden had then increased, and it must be acknowledged. When you highlight the qualities of a quinquennium, you also highlight its defects – I am comfortable in both exercises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u374	Thank you for your honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u375	Today, I find myself perfectly in the policy of the Government. A few years ago, an offer policy was initiated; We went further, transforming the CICE into lasting relief. In addition, under this quinquennium, unlike the previous quinquennium, when we reduce a community resource, we compensate for this decrease, and we also guarantee the maintenance of endowments. On family policies, I am equally comfortable, even though I am not sure that my positions are suitable for Mrs Dalloz. I was very happy and very proud to vote in favour of marriage for all, and I am very pleased that, under this quinquennium, we took another step by opening the LDC to all women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u376	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u377	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On all the subjects of which we are proud, it is under this quinquennium that we go the furthest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u378	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1015.u379	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the first part of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
