ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021 (No 3397, 3432, 3434).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u2	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs and Old Age Insurance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u3	The health and economic crisis that we have been experiencing for several months has severely affected the accounts of the old age branch of social security, which, I would remind you, accounts for almost half of social security expenditure, all of which are compulsory basic schemes. Although the figures should be kept very cautious, the industry's deficit would reach EUR 9.6 billion in 2020, including EUR 7.9 billion under the general scheme. However, taking into account the entire pension system, this deficit would reach, according to a progress note published last week by the Pension Guidance Board – COR – more than EUR 25 billion. In any case, these deficits are incongruous with the balances recorded in recent years. Similarly, the deficit in the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV), which provides funding for national solidarity schemes, including the minimum old age, is expected to reach EUR 3.2 billion, double that of 2019. How can we explain such a situation? It is due to the diverging trend in the sector's revenue and expenditure: the former, in particular social contributions, fell sharply – by 2.3% – due to the slowdown in economic activity, while pension fund expenditure continued to grow at a steady pace – by 2.5%. It should be noted that the transfer of the electricity and gas industry regime from the Pensions Reserve Fund – FRR – to the National Old Age Insurance Fund – CNAV – for an amount of 5 billion, under the Act of 7 August last on social debt and autonomy, has, however, made it possible to limit the deterioration of the branch's balance. In the absence of strong measures to control expenditure, the accounts of the old age branch should remain in the red for a long time. While this draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – foresees an increase in the order of 2% of pension expenditure in 2021, the annual deficit of the general system is expected to remain above €7 billion until 2024. Because of the burden of the old age branch on the social security accounts, which are permanently degraded, it will therefore be necessary, once the health crisis is controlled, to review the financial situation of our pension system and to engage in further discussions with the social partners to regulate pension expenditure in the medium term, regardless of the systemic reform of point-based retirement. Despite the continuing deterioration of the branch's balance, the Government did not want to implement measures to control pension expenditure this year, as it had done in the latest social security financing laws. Thus, by 2021, all basic retirement pensions will be well indexed to inflation, estimated at 0.6%. Pending a resumption of the pension reform, suspended last March after its adoption at first reading by the National Assembly, the Government has focused this PLFSS on the measures resulting from the agreements of the Ségur de la santé, thus choosing not to introduce any specific measures affecting old-age insurance. However, the old age branch also acts to prevent the loss of autonomy and, at the time of the creation of this fifth branch of social security, I wanted to pay particular attention to the often unknown mission of pension funds: the prevention of loss of autonomy. The CNAV allocates a budget of €400 million each year for activities to prevent loss of autonomy. This amount, I agree, is low in terms of the overall expenditure of the fund, but it contributes to the national policy of supporting autonomy in a concrete way. These 400 million are to be added to the expenditure in this area of the AGIRC-ARRCO – the General Association of Supplementary Retirement Institutions of Executives and the Association for the Supplementary Retirement Scheme of Employees – or the Mutual Agricultural Social Fund – MSA. Pension funds accompany individuals when they retire, help them to preserve their health and stay at home by financing, for example, housing adaptation programmes, such as the development of bathrooms, or home-based meal-carrying services; In short, they promote good aging. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is interesting to note that while there is still a long way to go before a possible universal pension system can be put in place, the funds of the various schemes together, together with other social bodies, develop cross-cutting actions, in particular to prevent the loss of autonomy. The quality of the preventive measures carried out by pension funds should invite the designers of the fifth branch to preserve their role and capitalise on their experience. CNAV's recent collaboration with the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government (CNSA) in setting up a single national claim form for elderly people living at home and in need of external assistance demonstrates that pension funds work constructively with the main actors of self-government to develop new services that facilitate the lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u4	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs for accidents at work and occupational diseases, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u5	It is an honour for me to speak as rapporteur for the occupational accidents and diseases branch, known as "AT-MP". This is, I would remind you, the first historically insured risk on the collective level, the first occupational accident law dating back to 1898. The AT-MP branch is strongly affected, like the other branches of the general regime, by the health crisis that we are going through. While structurally surplus since 2013, it has seen its revenues largely affected by the crisis, causing an unprecedented deficit of €290 million. This is the consequence of the social and economic dampening role of social security, particularly the AT-MP branch. Fortunately, it is expected to return quickly to a surplus balance, as the increase in revenue is expected to amount to EUR 1 billion in 2021. In particular, it will benefit from the favourable effect of the Ségur de la santé on its income from contributions and social contributions. The branch is expected to generate a surplus of EUR 500 million in 2021, which would grow until 2024, which I welcome. It is more essential than ever that it continue and strengthen its preventive and reparation missions. The AT-MP branch, as we know, has played an important role in the response to the health crisis. For example, it has set up a grant entitled "VOCID Prevention", which covers 50% of the investment made by small and medium-sized enterprises to introduce barrier measures and hygiene measures. It is essential to continue to help our companies to protect their employees as best they can. The recovery of the economy must go hand in hand with a strengthening of the protection of all those who contribute to it. The branch also participated in the construction of the system of recognition of covid -19 as an occupational disease, an undeniable advance for the victims even though the system is considered restrictive and imperfect by a number of actors. A first assessment of this will be made at the end of November or early December 2020; It will then be necessary to draw all the consequences. Beyond actions to combat the epidemic, the branch is now facing two main challenges: strengthening prevention and improving the recognition of AT-MPs in a fair manner throughout the country. Encouraging developments have taken place in recent years, policies to promote health at work and to repair occupational risks are bearing fruit, but AT-MPs are still too numerous... As a reminder, under the general scheme alone, 1.1 million accidents at work – including road accidents – or occupational diseases were recognised in 2019, of which almost three quarters resulted in a work stoppage. It is necessary to work to further reduce their frequency and severity. In this regard, I welcome the fact that PLFSS 2021 contains an article aimed at improving the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Article 34 provides, in order to combat the shortage of doctors at work, to experiment in four MSA caisses with an expansion of the duties of health nurses at work. This is the only article in the PLFSS on the subject because a thorough reform of occupational health is under way at the same time as the negotiations on this subject have recently begun between the social partners. I hope that we can discuss this reform very soon here, in line with the resolution we adopted on 24 June, at the initiative of our colleagues Charlotte Lecocq, Carole Granjean and Cendra Motin. It is also essential to improve the recognition of occupational diseases and the fairness of their redress. You know that I am particularly sensitive about asbestos, too present in the Dunkerquois, my constituency. The harmfulness of asbestos is now known, as is the scale of the health disaster associated with its massive use. A compensation fund for asbestos victims, FIVA, has been set up to provide compensation for the damage suffered by asbestos victims. Since its inception, it has sent nearly 250,000 offers of compensation. But I am concerned that the PLFSS 2021 sets the allocation of the AT-MP branch to the FIVA at EUR 220 million next year, while the Social Security Accounts Committee called for the allocation to be maintained at the same level as in 2020, i.e. EUR 260 million, that the health crisis has had a very strong impact on the functioning of the fund and that there is an urgent need to reduce the processing times of pending cases. On reading the amendments tabled, I have seen that a number of you are committed to the establishment of the Pesticide Victims Compensation Fund as soon as possible. The issuance of the implementing order is announced for the next few days, which I welcome. This week we will be discussing amendments aimed at extending the scope of this fund from now on, even if it seems premature to me as far as scientific knowledge is concerned. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, as rapporteur for the industry, I wanted to table an amendment to simplify the declarations of AT-MP work stoppages and to develop dematerialisation. I think we will be able to join, Mr Minister Delegate to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, in charge of public accounts, ladies and gentlemen, on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u6	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u7	Mrs Cendra Motin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u8	Test, alert, protect. This is the strategy defined by the President of the Republic with the Government to combat the covid -19 which, for eight months, has plunged the whole world into a health, economic and social crisis as we have never known before. This crisis imposed on us a difficult economic, social and psychological choice: that of widespread confinement in the spring, and now of a curfew in many of our metropolises. While the policy of the majority and the Government has made the objective of balancing social security accounts as close as ever to being achieved, with a deficit of 1.9 billion compared to 5.4 billion originally planned, we have decided to protect the French, "no matter what the cost". We decided to protect lives by testing the French massively and, despite the controversy, the figures are there: more than 13 million tests were carried out in France and fully covered by health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u9	You're geniuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u10	More than EUR 15 billion, all measures combined, have already been spent in response to the health crisis. But this PLFSS goes further, by making more accessible the most innovative medicines to treat all those for whom it is more than hope, by continuing the work on the rest of the patients at the hospital, rationalizing and lowering it for the people whose health is the most fragile, by creating a new branch to better accompany the handicap and the loss of autonomy, and laying the foundations for a governance that will remain to be consolidated in the coming months by the great law, long awaited by the French, on the great age and autonomy. We have decided to protect jobs because this unprecedented economic crisis has also been created by us by putting our economy on a break for several months to protect the most fragile. The decision had an immediate effect on the revenues of all social security schemes by causing a 6.9 per cent contraction in private salaries in 2020 and a tax loss generating a debt of 44 billion this year. But the key to recovery is in our hands, we saw it in the third quarter with an exceptional rebound in our economy. For this reason, the Government has chosen to support businesses through reliefs, exemptions and carry-overs, amounting to 5 billion in 2020 and then in 2021, fully offset by the State budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u11	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u12	We have decided to protect those who care for us, who have been on the front line and who are still. We applauded them every night during confinement: doctors, nurses, paramedics, life attendants, maintenance agents, coordinators, administrative agents and all those who, in hospitals, in EHPADs and in the city, mobilized without counting for the sick. The hospital, whose suffering we heard in 2019, was a heroic bulwark in the face of the epidemic. After the vote on a first emergency plan in December 2019, the assurance of a strong commitment on the progress of the national goal of health insurance spending – ONDAM – and the confirmation of the recovery of €13 billion in hospital debt in July 2020, it was necessary to do more for the men and women who once again showed their dedication to their mission. At the end of the Segur de la santé, more than €7 billion will be mobilised to deliver on the promises made in terms of raising wages. As of December, an increase of 183 euros will be effective for all staff – caregivers and non-caregivers, incumbents and contractors, working in hospitals or in EPHAD. It will reach 160 euros for those working in the lucrative private sector. But the Ségur de la santé also prepares the health of tomorrow, in line with the "my health 2022" strategy, which continues to be deployed this year: $6 billion will be invested to finance projects that bring cities and hospitals closer together, to promote the development of digital health – which is encouraged by, for example, the two-year extension of the full management of teleconsultations – and to transform and renovate EHPADs. Finally, by devoting €80 million, together with the departments, to the payment of an exceptional premium to home help workers, the State is making a gesture of gratitude to all those who have protected our seniors by allowing them to stay at home. But we need to do more and better for those who deserve to be better recognized by our society, as their role is eminently human and essential for millions of families. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the superlatives that could come to our lips in the light of the figures contained in this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u14	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I believe that this text is simply up to the level of the shock that we have suffered, the fighting that remains to be waged and the stakes of tomorrow's society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u15	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u16	It is in a very particular context of health, economic and social crises that we are about to consider the bill to finance social security for 2021. In view of this exceptional situation, this text must enable us to respond to major challenges by strengthening our care system and our social protection system. This is indeed the central axis of the PLFSS for 2021, which sets a national expenditure target for social security unprecedented, if not exceptional – to take up the term used by Minister Olivier Véran. In view of this, the Social Affairs Committee must, more than ever, play a leading role in the National Assembly. Following the meetings held last week in the context of the examination of the text in committee, I thank the rapporteurs for the quality of their work. I am thinking first of all of Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general, as well as of the thematic rapporteurs, Mrs Caroline Janvier and Mrs Monique Limon, as well as Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Mr Paul Christophe. Of course, I thank all the members of the Committee on Social Affairs for the rich and intense exchanges we have had, as well as the directors of the committee, who are still doing a lot of good work. The 19 hours of discussion in committee undoubtedly allowed us to change our thinking, with the respect of everyone, despite the differences of opinion – it seemed to me important to stress this. The task was not simple, let us recall: of the fifty-one clauses of the bill, 1245 amendments were tabled and 528 were discussed. The significant difference between these two figures is, as you know, due to the rigorous application of the rules of constitutional and organic admissibility – very strict rules, which apply to all Members on these benches: all political groups, without exception, are concerned. However, the examination of these 528 amendments made it possible to address a very large number of issues, and I believe that all the members of the committee were able to put the questions they wanted without any restriction. These many hours of discussion have also led us – this is an essential point – to adopt 35 amendments from six different political groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u17	It's a lot...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u18	We have thus improved the text in several important points: the work in committee has enabled several advances. I am thinking in particular of increasing transparency regarding the public investments that pharmaceutical laboratories benefit from when developing a medicine, but also of the restoration of the advance payment of the birth premium, which was defended by our former colleague Gilles Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u19	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u20	In addition, through several requests for reports, the Committee unanimously expressed its interest in the upgrading of careers and occupations in the social, medico-social and health sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u21	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u22	Among the provisions adopted by the committee, let us not forget the extension of the third party paying on the share of the expenditure covered by compulsory health insurance to the costs of voluntary termination of pregnancy – a measure defended by our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain at the end of the work of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u24	It is also worth mentioning the adoption of amendments aimed at strengthening the arsenal of mechanisms to combat fraud, which follow on from the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the fight against fraud in social benefits. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, these nineteen hours of examination in committee were dense and rich. It is now up to us, in session, to continue this dynamic in order to improve, with the assistance of the Government, the PLFSS by 2021. I am thinking in particular of the professionals involved in home support and assistance services, for which we absolutely must act. I know that all Members on these benches will be able to reach a consensus to respond to the urgency of their situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the integration of the decisions taken in the framework of the Secur de la Santé, the sustainability and development of the homes of birth, the extension of paternity leave, the progressive establishment of the fifth branch of social security, and the resumption of the debt of the health institutions providing the public hospital service, are all strong commitments that we must reaffirm.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u25	I have received a motion from Mr Damien Abad and members of the Republicans' Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u26	Let's change some music. The Social Security Financing Bill for 2021 reflects the Government's efforts to respond to health and economic crises. It is up to me, on behalf of my group, to defend the motion to reject it beforehand. This is an essential democratic exercise, not because of the way in which the text is examined in the current health context or because of the measures adopted within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, but because of the budgetary construction of the PLFSS, which sets out a financial trajectory which does not suggest a return to the balance of accounts. But we make this last point our totem. The late response of the state at the beginning of the pandemic did not respect the organization of the 2011 "rapid pandemic" plan, which, however, was intended to provide decision-making support for all actors and to guide them in their respective missions. Instead of anticipating in order to break the chains of contamination, the executive seems to have been short since February: it gives the feeling of being ahead of the spread of the covid -19, which has led some actors – including a former health minister – to believe that it cumulates bad administration of the event and crisis management far removed from the fundamental principles. In 2007, we created the EPRUS – the health emergency preparedness and response facility – which had two essential functions: the management of the health reserve and the management of strategic stocks of health products. Thus, in December 2010, we had a stock of one billion surgical masks and 723 million FFP2 protective masks – a second-class facial filter. So how can we understand that the national stock of masks made up by the EPRUS melted like snow in the sun between 2011 and 2019? How can we accept that many masks could have been destroyed on the eve of the epidemic, or even at the beginning of it? [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] The fight against the epidemic was presented to the French as a war. That's one of them. But the caregivers were sent to the fight against the covid -19 without weapons, masks and superblouses – I will not mention shortages of anesthetic products. Thousands of them were contaminated in the hospital and in the medical offices. Forty-six doctors have died. Thanks to them for protecting us and treating us. The Government underestimated the scale of the health crisis and lost the battle of masks. Remember the speeches that evoked a useless accessory, which the French could not use!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u27	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u28	The Government has failed in implementing its screening strategy. He also lost the battle of testing, when other countries were able to stop contamination. "Test all suspicious cases," recommended WHO – the World Health Organization – at a time when the Directorate-General for Health – DGS – claimed that "in active circulation, the test does not have much interest."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u30	After three disappointing PLFSSs, is the social security budget for 2021 up to the health crisis? You say it is a historical budget, but what is historic is the drift of social finances. What is historic is to produce debt over and over again. How, moreover, can we build a real budget on the basis of assumptions that constantly vary? I would like to recall that the previous minister responsible for public accounts in June had a social security deficit of €52.2 billion in 2020, which you have since reduced to €44.4 billion. Undoubtedly, this colossal amount is a historic record. We are facing persistent uncertainty about the health and economic consequences of the epidemic. In the second quarter of 2020, the Government had already had to amend the macroeconomic scoping of the finance law three times. At a time when the President of the High Council of Public Finance points out that "the prospects for growth of the French economy are surrounded by adverse external hazards", who can predict, in all conscience, the future of the epidemic and the extent of the economic recovery? Not you, not us. We can only be struck with vertigo by the abyssal deficits in our social finances: in 2020: €30 billion in deficit for the disease branch, €7.9 billion for the retirement branch and an ONDAM that jumps to 7.6% instead of the 2.45% originally planned in the LFSS for 2020. In 2021, €4.3 billion will have to be spent to continue to manage the crisis, including the purchase of masks, testing and a possible vaccination campaign. An allocation of EUR 7.9 billion is intended to finance the agreements of Ségur, whose city medicine is the great forgotten. While the Sécur de la santé will help the public hospital, which needs it well, it does not provide for any measure that would reassure liberal medicine. The decline in urban health care activity during confinement resulted in a reduction in social security spending of €4.3 billion. It is therefore a political mistake not to help, support or value city medicine. His representatives will let you know when they explain that Article 33 of the text constitutes a casus belli for them. In total, in 2021 the Government is planning an ONDAM increase of 3.5 per cent and an expenditure of €224.6 billion. In this context, the health insurance deficit is expected to reach EUR 19 billion and the old-age insurance deficit to reach EUR 7.3 billion. The prospect of a return to balance seems very chemetic. It is therefore a very strange presentation that has been made to the press: while the social security deficit had to spray all the records, the Minister of Health nevertheless claims to be the minister for the balance of social accounts. A small reminder of the situation before the crisis of the covid -19 is necessary: once, the same promised us, for the moment, the balance of accounts before reducing it and finally leading us towards a lasting debt. I had previously warned you about the trompe-l'oeil effect of growth that should not have exempted the Government from undertaking the necessary structural reforms. He assured us that the recovery would be faster than expected. Remember, he even promised us excess accounts. However, you have made the yellow vest crisis unduly bear the burden of social security. Thus, before the health crisis, the accounts for 2020 still had to be in the red, since the budget was built on the basis of a deficit of €5.4 billion for social security. The prospects for a return to balance had already been pushed back to 2024. That's the reality! Today, the health crisis remains at the heart of the budget figures. Social security revenues are collapsing, with a loss of earnings due to changes in business income and taxation. Its resources, which are already very sensitive to changes in the economic situation due to the lack of structural reforms, are obviously still dependent on the scale of the economic recession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u31	[[At twenty-one thirty-five hours, Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. David Habib in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u32	This summer, the Government decided, through the adoption of the two laws on social debt, to add €136 billion of debt to the social security gap. This amount is transferred to CADES, the social debt amortization fund created in 1996 to clear the social security debt, which was to be only temporary. The refund would now be postponed no longer to 2024, but to 2033, if not to a later date. However, the transfer covers not only past deficits, but also projected social deficits related to the current crisis as well as investments in public health institutions decided within the framework of the Secur de la Santé. It is also a debt-recovery of hospitals which is not the responsibility of the health insurance fund but is exclusively the responsibility of the State. In other words, the CADES serves as a tote to camouflage the amortization of part of the public debt. I told you last July. Deputy Minister, we are asking at least for the precise details of debt transfers to CADES. In these circumstances, one can only be sceptical of the reality of the fifth branch, devoted to the loss of autonomy. Not all sources of funding are known. In fact, it is only a clumsy ridicule of the CNSA, to which you intend to transfer in 2021 the payment of the education allowance for the disabled child – EEAH – that is 1.2 billion euros, while the actors in the family branch are upwind, as well as the expenditure on EHPAD. It is about 20 billion euros of deficit that are to be expected for social security in the years to come, not to mention the mystery maintained of a future "large age law" supposed to arrive "later". The eminently political haste of the announcement of this fifth branch became evident even before a vision was defined: you sign wooden cheques, which is really not the mark of a good financial policy. What will be the fate of the reform of unemployment insurance, whose finances are ravaged by the crisis? What about the help for young people in this burglary at the top of the state? Finally, the issue of pension financing remains complete with a financial balance with a deficit of more than 25 billion this year, which will remain above 10 billion a year until 2024. The deterioration of the financial situation threatens to undermine foundations that are dug in sand. How many amending budgets will it take to keep pace with the changing reality of the coming months? It is therefore legitimate, especially since the burden of interest seems to make it easier, to question the entry into a life-long debt process and its impact on the economic and political credibility of our country. The Court of Auditors is rightly concerned about the sustainability of our debt. Deputy Minister, you should listen to his Prime President, who considers it imperative to put social security back on the track quickly, while the social debt is now close to 400 billion euros – 396 billion to be precise. Also listen to the complementary elements that oppose your text and the tax imposed on them! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have devoted much of my life to medicine with enthusiasm and happiness. I have dedicated my parliamentary mandates to debate social security financing bills every year for the last 20 years. I have seen the situation deteriorate and the social debt explode, a burden that will unfortunately rest on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren. In the meantime, we're treating ourselves with debt, but I'm saying that one day, ladies and gentlemen, we'll have to be accountable. As Sun Tzu said, we are only struck by the fate that we have not been able to control. That is why I invite you to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u33	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u34	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and Les Républicaines groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Valérie Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u35	You have innovated since the beginning of this legislature by appointing a general rapporteur for the examination of the PLFSS; However, we have no clear consolidation of the figures. The impact assessment submitted by the Government evaluates the articles of the text on the basis of article 3. In other words, it does not deal with financial items, as if they did not matter. You, the minister in charge of the budget, should be sensitive to this argument. You are presenting a PLFSS without clear financial projections. This year more than another, your text would have deserved to be accompanied by a particularly legible summary table. The PLFSS for 2021 includes an increase in expenditure of 10 billion euros: everyone grants you that part of this increase is linked to short-term expenditure due to the health crisis. Having said that, I believe that it would not have been impossible to draw up a clear picture of what, in the 224 billion, was directed, on the one hand, towards the cyclical situation and the crisis of the covid-19, and, on the other hand, towards recurrent budgets. There is no such table.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u36	It's not clear at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u37	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It is not found in the impact assessment or in the rapporteur-general's report. However, to be rapporteur-general is to add additions and subtractions and to have a clear vision. I know what I'm talking about; I myself was rapporteur-general in the previous legislature. The aim is to present a clear and legible summary to all of his colleagues. The social security budget before us is not presented in a clear and intelligible way. The Government has provided an additional $10 billion, which is to its credit, but, colleagues, you should have the curiosity to know whether they will go to recurrent spending or short-term spending. It's a minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u39	As parliamentarians, we have the responsibility for public funds. The requirement of clarity should guide us, in any case for the first assessment. I come to another subject: you present a table offering 4 billion euros of savings that you call: regulatory measures in 2021. Even Bercy, who dares a lot, wouldn't have dared to do that. In good French, these are savings measures, simply...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u40	Thank you, Madam President Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u41	[[Applause on the SOC and LR panels]] This is a new language, Mr President, and I wanted to bring this innovation to the attention of all our colleagues. The Socialist and Related Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u42	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u43	Listening to Mr. Door's opening remarks, I thought for a moment that I had had the wrong debate and room, and that this was a meeting of the covid-19 fact-finding mission. After Sun Tzu, I want to say that mastering his destiny means discussing the texts before us, in committee – we did it for nineteen hours – and in the Chamber. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The PLFSS is an annual document: the PLFSS for 2021 is presented to us, we need to discuss it. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u45	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u46	I will not say in a few minutes what I intend to explain in a quarter of an hour in the general discussion. However, I consider that, in order to reach a definitive position on a text, the debates must take place. However, I am very sceptical about how he is held. The vast majority of the IDU and independent amendments were declared inadmissible...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u47	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u48	... on very questionable and sometimes non-existent legal bases, which condemns us to a partial debate on a text which is nevertheless fundamental. Article 40 of the Constitution and the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Acts are interpreted very restrictively. It should be recalled that the right to amend is also a constitutionally guaranteed right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u50	We therefore weigh the "for" and "against" of this text. As it stands, before the debates, it contains real progress: the realization of the announcements made during the Ségur de la santé, the prolongation of paternity leave, the complete management of teleconsultations by the health insurance. However, there are some gaps, I would say a lot of gaps: there is nothing about psychiatry, nothing about prevention, nothing about the decentralization of our health system, so little about home care, and nothing about loss of autonomy, which we sincerely regret. The creation of a social security branch dedicated to the loss of autonomy is a very profound expectation of our fellow citizens, but you refer all the measures related to this subject to the consideration of a bill dedicated to it, in the first half of 2021 – which means that funding will be included in the PLFSS by 2022. This explains why the fifth branch, as it stands, remains an empty shell. With regard to the decentralization of our health care system, the IDU and independent group advocates a better distribution of care provision in the territory through the regionalization of the health budget. This would better affect each expenditure where the territories need it most. We are also defending a drastic reduction in compulsory levies, because the cost of labour in France is prohibitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u51	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u52	Many companies will benefit from an exemption from charges, but what will happen in the long term? We will not return to growth without deciding on shock measures. That is why I urge you, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u53	Your time has expired. You will be able to intervene again in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Boris Vallaud also applauds]] I would just add that I will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u55	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u56	We expected a lot of PLFSS by 2021 because the caregivers expressed their dismay at the difficulties they were encountering. We also expected a lot because a month and a half ago a budgetary framework was created to imagine the creation of the fifth branch of social security devoted to the loss of autonomy. This PLFSS must therefore provide the means to combat the epidemic and to initiate the long-awaited reforms of our social protection system. Our disappointment is very great. With regard to the fight against the epidemic, the proposed material and human resources will not be sufficient. The High Council for Public Finance itself believes that the allocation of €4.3 billion in ONDAM 2021 for masks, tests and vaccines will not meet the needs. In terms of human resources, it is little to say that caregivers are exhausted and too few to cope with new hospital admissions. We are still waiting for the recruitments announced during the Sécur de la santé, and we do not see coming the big plan necessary to hire and train nurses, caregivers... Today, the great difficulty of health facilities remains to find staff. On the part relating to autonomy, our disappointment is even greater. We had denounced the lack of governance, the lack of precision in funding, the scope: well, this PLFSS confirms our concerns. For all these reasons, the majority of the Libertés et territoires group will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u58	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u59	As has been said, the debate lasted nineteen hours in committee, but nineteen hours of debate on what? Many were frustrated that they could not speak on important matters because amendments were declared inadmissible first in committee and then in public session.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u60	That's often the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u61	We are here, we will discuss, but many topics will not be discussed. With all due respect to Mr Dussopt, we are talking without the Minister of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u62	Where is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u63	It's true that it's not very respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u64	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] I wrote my speech for the general discussion in his honour and I think it will be very sad not to hear it, even if I know that you will all be happy to listen to it here. Is this the debate in the National Assembly now? The review of the Social Security Financing Bill is so important that the Minister of Solidarity and Health is not even there. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will not surprise you, after twenty months of demonstrations with my healthcare colleagues, who were still on the street last Thursday, by telling you that I can only vote for the motion of rejection put forward by the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u65	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u66	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is the first time, during the crisis, since March, that we have had the opportunity to discuss the health situation and the arrangements to be put in place. In this regard, nothing has been done. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I agree with my colleagues who will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, and the GDR Group will also vote on it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u67	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u68	...for several reasons. [[Boris Vallaud and Julien Dive applaud]] We are going to vote for it because we find ourselves finding that there is a lack of human and material resources in hospitals. You can consult all the hospital staff, starting with the care workers: they say they lack the means and that they are less numerous to face the second wave than they were at the first. That's what's wrong. We didn't take the time to hire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u69	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u70	This bill on the financing of social security is exceptional. Acting in a very exceptional context, it is both a response to an unprecedented health crisis and an anticipation. Before the crisis, the fiscal trajectory was part of a return to the balance of social accounts, with a view to the repayment of social debt at the end of 2024. Measures taken in response to strong and legitimate expectations have placed a heavy burden on social security, which has fully ensured its mission by providing for each situation. With a deficit of more than 44 billion due to the crisis, we could have feared an austerity PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u71	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u72	It's one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u73	It must be noted, however, that the PLFSS 2021 is forward-looking and involves strong and caring measures. I will mention just a few, emblematic of this text: a new ONDAM growing by 6 per cent, the creation of a new social security branch abounding by 31 billion, witness to the Government's willingness to pursue a policy of supporting the autonomy of the elderly and in a situation of disability, the Segur of health with historical reclamations...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u75	...– besides, who on these benches, a healthcare professional, can testify to have experienced such revalorizations? – doubling paternity leave so that men can devote more time to their child in the first days. Colleagues, if the motion for rejection were accepted, we would say not to almost 10 billion additional health insurance expenses, not to a dynamic policy of autonomy, not to the upgrading of health and medical-social professionals, always to the appointment with the French and not to the doubling of paternity leave. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion to reject, because we are for this exceptional PLFSS and for the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u76	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u77	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister Delegate, where is your colleague Minister of Solidarity and Health?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u78	Enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u79	That's a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u80	You don't even deny it. What a contempt for national representation! [[Same movements]] After recalling the mismanagement of the health crisis by your government
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u81	Only Mr. Bazin has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u82	...my colleague Jean-Pierre Door has just wisely asked you to review your copy for this bill to finance social security for 2021. [[Same movements]] Indeed, the forgotten and the disappointed are many. Mr rapporteur-general, where is the budget presented as new, historic, extraordinary for liberal health professionals in our territories? On the contrary, you postpone the long-awaited revalorisation to the Greek calends. Liberal medicine is forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u84	Where are the reforms presented as the most ambitious of this year? Nothing about pharmaceutical dispatchers, whose deficits have increased since the beginning of the quinquennium, which endangers the drug chain in our territories. You say, Minister Delegate, not to postpone imbalances on future generations: that is what you are doing, with debt over and over again! In truth, you are endangering our social protection system. More worryingly, the budget forecasts are based on a lack of rebound in the epidemic and a good recovery in economic activity as early as 2021. You say you don't raise taxes, but you're going to increase the taxes on the French. Where are the new prospects announced for our health care system? You seem to be disconnected from the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u85	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u86	You've created an autonomous branch that has only its name. By means of a budget pass, you take to the family branch the education allowance of the disabled child. It is a very bad start that this underfunded and poorly funded branch. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You plan to double the length of paternity leave. It is the tree that hides the forest because families are the great forgotten of this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u87	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u88	[[Vehement protests and clapping of desks on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups – applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the reasons why the Republicans ask you, Minister Delegate, to review your copy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u89	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u90	As we go through the worst health crisis in our modern history, this bill to finance social security must enable all the necessary levers to protect all our citizens. Of course, it proposes a substantial increase in social security spending and reveals a very large deficit, but in these troubled times what other response can the public authorities provide? More than ever before, our citizens must have confidence in the shield of our social protection system. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group – Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] What can be said about the historical advances of the Ségur de la santé, which are swept away by the tabling of this motion? Our colleagues in the Republicans group will have to explain to the thousands of remarkable caregivers of courage and self-denial that they refuse to see their wages increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u91	Here, it's the lady who was talking the other day about the TV bombing...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u92	Shameful! Go away, Mr Cordier! And put your mask back on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down and listen to Mrs de Vaucouleurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u94	Of course, as every year, all the groups, including the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, have points of vigilance to make and the willingness to amend certain provisions of the text, but this requires discussion, debate, the defence of amendments and not political postures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our group strongly opposes the use of a motion of rejection and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u95	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u96	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 183 Number of votes cast 183 Absolute majority 92 For adoption 60 Against 123
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u97	The Minister for Public Accounts would like to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u98	I have spent fifty or sixty hours in sittings since last Monday on the finance bill and I must say – see no judgment of value – that all this time, despite lively debates, at no time have I experienced what we have just experienced. I therefore find it useful, Mr. Chairman, to request five minutes of suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u99	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u100	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u101	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u102	In the general discussion, which we begin in a calm atmosphere, Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u103	This year we are considering the draft law on the financing of social security in the context of a global health crisis. To date, our country has 33623 deaths due to the covid-19 epidemic. I would also like to express my solidarity with all the families affected by this virus, as well as with the caregivers who face it every day. Coronavirus has bereaved our country and humanity as a whole; But it has also revealed the shortcomings of our health care system. The poor management of the mask shortage, as early as March 2020, coupled with the erratic testing strategy, has clearly aggravated the health situation, and consequently degraded the social accounts of our country – a subject that we are dealing with today. As I said, the context in which we are looking at this PLFSS is not trivial. We are facing one of the worst health crises in our history and the social accounts presented today bear all the stigmas. For 2020, the social security deficit amounts to EUR 46.1 billion; For 2021, it is expected to be 26.4 billion. But the uncertainties are such that it is impossible for us to know whether we will be able to reduce this deficit or whether it will be aggravated. Indeed, in your projections, you expect a rebound of the French economy after a recession due to confinement, but with the curfew decided by the President of the Republic last week, the whole of your text suddenly became very hypothetical. We do not know what the economic consequences of curfew will be: we do not know its full duration, its impact on employment and unemployment figures, and its effect on social security revenues. We are therefore invited to vote blindly on the situation of social accounts. I do not make it a trial, but for the clear information of Parliament, a correction PLFSS will be required once the curfew is over. Minister of Solidarity and Health – absent! – you are defending a text that shows the largest increase in ONDAM over the last 30 years, but no Member on these benches can really be pleased with it since this increase in the health insurance budget aims to respond to the health crisis on an ad hoc basis. Everyone also knows that it is not intended for new hospital recruitment or new bed openings. Yet it is the lack of beds and staff that leads you to introduce curfews and new measures restricting our freedoms – an absolute nonsense. The response to the crisis requires financial efforts, of course; However, if we want to have a hospital system capable of dealing with future health crises, we would have to change our health policy: to put an end to the budgetary austerity reserved for our hospitals and to invest in the care society – the care society. This PLFSS is not going to respond to the problems of social security, let alone hospitals, on a sustainable basis. Nevertheless, I welcome the translation into this text of the measures taken by the Segur of Health. Caregivers have been on the front line in the face of the virus, and wage increases and bonuses are long-awaited; I shall also vote in favour of these measures. I also welcome the progress that will be made in extending paternity and childcare leave, as provided for in the bill. But this text is not up to the stakes. As we face a health crisis of unprecedented violence, we continue to close beds in hospitals. In addition, you are proposing the creation of an emergency package for all, where many French people were exempt from a moderator's ticket – I am of course thinking of pregnant women and people with long-term affections. The Social Debt and Autonomy Act of 7 August 2020 created the fifth branch of social security, which is intended to provide better support for the loss of autonomy. But how can we not worry about the lack of sustainable financing for this industry? New revenues are needed: the needs of EHPADs as home help services are immense, and the urgency is there. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, while the debt of social security is rising as a result of the health crisis, we do not forget that you have seriously weakened our social protection system for the past three years. By voting for exemptions from uncompensated contributions, by making social security bear the measures decided upon during the yellow vest crisis or, today, by weighing on social accounts the response to the health crisis, you have weakened our social protection for a long time. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Minister of Solidarity and Health – always absent! – if, like me, you are attached to social security, refuse the State to use its funds whenever a crisis situation arises; Otherwise we condemn our social security to decades of deadly austerity. Social security is our national treasure, let us not sacrifice it on the altar of a capitalism that has become ill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u104	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u105	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u106	This year we are approaching the examination of the nation's social accounts under unprecedented conditions, with a global health crisis and the growing awareness that it may take a long time to live with the virus. Beyond the health aspect, we are experiencing a multifactorial crisis that will lastingly affect the world. This will be global and will require all of us to adapt, some of which will transform our lifestyles: reflections on working methods, patterns of travel, ways of consuming... We need to trust the human person and his ability to adapt so that this "after" we are building can bring hope and improvement. But for this, the support of the State and, more broadly, of the nation is indispensable; In particular, it is reflected, but not only, in the budget that we are going to examine. We have to say again and thank them again: for many months, it was all the health workers and our entire health care system that were put to the test and stood up to the virus. It is also the strength of our social protection that has made it possible to amortize this shock and to create an unparalleled safety net. The programme of the National Council of Resistance (CNR), which was responsible for social security, was entitled "Happy Days". I do not know if the period we are living deserves this qualification, but what is certain is that without this ambition of the resistors, without their will to create social security, seventy-five years ago, the present days would be much less happy. So it is our duty to resist our turn, more modestly, but with so much ambition to maintain our social protection which is so necessary in times of crisis. The crisis obviously has consequences for the balance of social security: it is creating unprecedented deficits – 44 billion euros this year, 27 billion euros next year – and endangering the viability of our social protection. It was necessary to act quickly and take full measure of the situation. The Government has chosen responsibly to focus part of it on CADES and thus postpone its expiry date to 2033. We had a rich debate on this subject this summer; it will extend during the examination of this rupture PLFSS, which takes all the measure of this new environment. The text includes major progress. First of all, it implements the strong commitments of the Ségur de la santé vis-à-vis hospital and EHPAD staff, an immediate effort of €8.2 billion to recognise the investment of those who carry our health system at arm's length. In practice, it is twice 90 euros net per additional month that will be paid in two instalments, i.e. 183 euros next year on the payroll of carers. This unprecedented breakthrough puts an end to the decades in which we voted for lower-than-need ONDAMs, and neglected our hospitals and staff. We welcome this much-anticipated measure by caregivers, which represents a real break with past practices. However, the Action Together Group stresses that it is essential to ensure fair treatment in the implementation of these historical adjustments. In the state, several thousand caregivers are excluded, as many medical and social facilities attached to public institutions are not part of the scope of the decree of 19 September. This difference in treatment, which includes staff, may lead to disaffection with social and medical-social institutions and departures to EHPADs in the hospital public service. The lack of upgrading of the careers of home help and accompaniment staff may have the same effects: a flight to EHPADs or a discouragement of the caregivers concerned, already very hard hit by the crisis of the covid-19. We believe that it is imperative to give guarantees to reassure all healthcare workers and to engage in a path of upgrading that leaves no one on the side of the road. I am convinced that the Ségur de la santé was a success, from any point of view, for the public hospital, which successive public policies had left behind for too long. The Segur Accords will help to upgrade the health professions while reforming the organization of a breathless public hospital. The recovery of €13 billion in hospital debt is an excellent measure, welcomed by the actors, which will enable the current investment in hospitals to be revived and their financial situation restored. Let me note, however: the Ségur de la santé has left behind liberal medicine, which is the great forgotten of these agreements. We believe that it is essential to organize a liberal health segur without delay, following the model of the Ségur de la santé, which ended last July. As part of their proposals to the Government for the recovery plan, all members of the Action Together group had formulated this requirement. We need a new contract between society and the liberal health professionals, who did not demerit during the crisis. At a time when we are facing a second wave of the epidemic, the postponement of conventional negotiations to 2023 has its relevance, but it leaves open the question of the revalorisation of acts, essential for these professionals. During the examination of the text in committee, all the groups, including ours, were concerned about the lack of strong measures in favour of home support and support services – SAAD – who were also absent from the Ségur de la santé and this PLFSS. However, there is an urgent need for action, as the sector is experiencing a great shortage of vocations, further exacerbated by the health crisis. That is why our group regrets the abolition of the EUR 50 million earmarked for testing a new model of funding for SAADs. The sum has been reallocated to finance an exceptional premium granted to staff in these services, with the State accompanying the departments' efforts to this end to the tune of €80 million. We should welcome the allocation of this premium, a measure of justice that our group had requested. This is a good cause, but it is a pity to return to the commitment to carry out the experiment I mentioned, as some SAADs have entered into a two-year contract in this context. Moreover, the implementing decrees on experimentation had been published too late in 2019, making it illusory for rapid implementation. Nevertheless, the Government, which I welcome, has tabled an amendment in public session aimed at strengthening the attractiveness of the home-help trades: €150 million is planned for 2021 and €200 million for 2022. This is a significant step forward, although much more will have to be done – I know that the Government is fully mobilized in this regard. We need not only a Segur of liberal medicine, but also a Laroque of autonomy, which will be held shortly. The creation, which was very expected, of a new branch of social security will finally make it possible to take on the challenge of taking charge of autonomy. This is a historic step forward that complements the scope of protection offered by our social security. Fifteen years after the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, we are taking another step forward. However, many issues remain outstanding. The inclusion of the EEAH in the family sector has its legitimacy and will be a simplification for people with disabilities. But, apart from being a bit unilateral, does this transfer mean that it is also planned to include the AAH, the allowance for adults with disabilities, in the new branch? An in-depth discussion with all the actors involved is necessary, ahead of the future law on old age. In addition, the creation of the autonomous branch will have to be realized very quickly through the adoption of new financing. I'm going to the family branch. The extension of paternity leave is a historical societal reform, which corresponds to the deep aspirations of our fellow citizens for a better reconciliation between family and working life. This is a good initiative, which aims to defend our family policy while promoting equality between men and women. It might be appropriate to extend the time limit for starting paternity leave from four to six months in order to allow it to be split, as closely as possible to the needs of the families. This was the subject of one of our amendments, which, unfortunately, did not cross the barrier of Article 40 of the Constitution, no more than nearly 120 others of our amendments... I am also pleased that the Social Affairs Committee unanimously voted to pay the birth premium before the birth of the child. This measure, defended by our group during the examination of previous PLFSS, was the subject of a bill by our colleague Gilles Lurton, adopted last June. It has its full place in this PLFSS and will thus be effective for families as early as March 2021. As far as the drug chain is concerned, this PLFSS is starting a small break, welcome, with the policy of savings carried out over the last ten years: the effort required of the drug industries will be limited to 600 million euros. That turnaround was necessary. During the review of the PLFSS for 2020, we supported the strengthening of the mechanism to combat drug stock disruptions. However, it was not consistent to persist at the same time in a regulatory policy discouraging innovation and conducive to relocation. We propose to give the entire drug and health product chain more visibility on the required savings targets, making them multi-year. Such a mechanism, which is repeatedly requested by the players in the sector, would be particularly beneficial to the whole chain and could promote the policy of re-location of activity in France. Beyond the sustainability of spending, there is an urgent need to consider our country's attractiveness in health research. Why not create a drug-related sub-envelope within ONDAM, which would allow us to look at the specific regulation of this sector? Our group also wishes to alert you to the recurring difficulties encountered by wholesalers-partitioners, an essential link in the drug chain. It is now time to find a lasting solution in this area. Similarly, it is essential to bear in mind that the medical device is a particular ecosystem composed mainly of small businesses and that it is strongly penalized by the savings measures requested. Overly penalising it means curbing innovation and the outpatient shift. We will defend several amendments in this regard. Finally, our group would like to draw attention to the situation of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union, PADHUE, who are very valuable personnel for our hospitals. Since the adoption of the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system, defended by Agnès Buzyn, a process of regularisation of the PADHUE has been initiated. It is expected to continue in the fall with the opening of the deadline for the regularisation of cases. Solutions are therefore being developed for PADHUEs who are operating illegally in the hospital sector or EHPADs. However, no solution would be proposed to the French PADHUE which are not in exercise. This is a regrettable inequality of treatment. Our group would like to see the implementation of a comprehensive plan for all the PADEUs, which would reconcile this requirement of justice with the imperative of excellence of our caregivers, to which no derogation can be made. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] In keeping with its constructive approach, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (ACP) is approaching the examination of social security accounts in a spirit of openness, even though I regret, like many of my colleagues, that almost 120 amendments tabled by the Group have been declared inadmissible. We will fully support the strong measures provided for in the text, and we will be able to make a proposal to improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u107	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u108	First of all, I would like to recall that at the beginning of the month we celebrated seventy-five years of the Order of 4 October 1945 on the organization of social security. Social security is the property of those who do not have it; It is the foundation on which the French social model is built. Of course, the political, social and economic context has changed a lot since 1945: changes in the world of work; demographic transition marked by the general ageing of the population; transformation of family models; changing the economic model, now globalized. However, the health crisis that we are going through, perhaps the most serious since the Spanish flu of 1918, has once again revealed the importance of a collective system of social protection ensuring against the risks of life and acting as an economic shocker. Social security has served as a bulwark not only for the sick and their families, but also for society as a whole. Behind this institution and alongside it, there are women and men, to whom we all pay tribute. In the midst of the turmoil, they have managed to organize themselves and to cope at best with extreme difficulties, despite constant and sometimes contradictory demands for adaptation. Despite their efforts, the weaknesses of our health system have been revealed by the crisis. This was thus an occasion for an awareness that led many French people to relativize the collective belief that our health system would be one of the most envious on the planet. Therefore, this bill to fund social security must be at the heart of our concerns. The PLFSS is still a strong act, which translates the political orientations of the Government into figures and concrete provisions. The one we are looking at this year is all the more important as we face the health crisis. Another particular feature is that following the announcements made by the President of the Republic, the Government will invite us in a public session to incorporate new measures that strongly engage public finances. If we could consider a return to balance in the coming year, the social security deficit could now reach €44.4 billion in 2020, a level never reached since the end of the Second World War. Not only have there been exceptional expenses to provide hospital accommodation, to buy tests and to treat the sick, but revenues have been significantly reduced by the decline in activity. The social security accounts are financed mainly by contributions based on wages. Moreover, as labour costs are a real competitive issue in our country, one of the first measures taken to safeguard our economic fabric has been a massive exemption from social charges. As a result, the loss of revenue due to the exemption from charges and the sharp slowdown in activity add to the increased expenditure. This text plans to increase ONDAM by EUR 10.1 billion for 2020, an increase of 7.6% over 2019. This will bring ONDAM to 215 billion this year. In 2021, spending will continue to grow, but with less intensity: ONDAM for 2021 is estimated at 224.6 billion. The consequences of "whatever it costs" require a clear, realistic approach to this PLFSS. The text legitimately raises expectations and many questions. Will we draw all the consequences of the findings made during the health crisis and fundamentally break with previous policies? Will the system be fundamentally transformed, by ceasing to place social protection in full place on work? The proposed measures inspire, I confess, shared feelings. First, there is little consideration in this PLFSS of the need to make the French social protection system sustainable for future generations. How will we find sustainable funding for our health care system? I am thinking here of what my children and grandchildren will have to do. I regret that, in considering the bill on social debt and self-government, the Government did not agree to introduce the golden rule mechanism proposed by our honourable senators. Why is Bruno Le Maire insistently trying to make the French believe that taxes will not increase, as we partly finance social security through debt? Today's debt is tomorrow's taxes! Second, the crisis following the first wave of covid-19 highlighted the extraordinary strength of our caregivers. With the arrival of the virus, the corridors of the public hospital were forced to transform; Some administrative blockages have been lifted; services have evolved into covid units; Nurses and nursing assistants who usually work in Liberals have come to strengthen the ranks of the most affected hospitals. However, with the prospect of a return to a more usual activity, there are too many papers, too many procedures in the hospital; All professionals complain about it. It is absolutely crucial to rebalance the balance between medical and administrative time. It is the main lever available to optimize the work of caregivers, raise their wages and make their profession more attractive. Let's trust the caregivers...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u109	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u110	... by giving them the power to make decisions on a daily basis. Health workers have once again shown their social and professional usefulness, already seen well before the health crisis. The conclusions of the Ségur de la santé finally allowed the payment of an additional treatment, of 183 euros net per month, to all staff in hospitals and EHPADs. However, the Decree of 19 September 2020 on the payment of this supplement excluded certain sectors managed by public hospitals. For example, in the Roubaix hospital in my constituency, the staff of the Centre for Early Medical and Social Action and those of the Centre for Health Education and Prevention, who are placed on the same index grids as their colleagues and are dependent on the same Joint Administrative Committees, do not benefit from this upgrading. Such unequal treatment is incomprehensible. On the other hand, the covid-19 pandemic revealed territorial divides as well as a superimposition of social inequalities. A recent study by DREES – the direction of research, studies, evaluation and statistics –, comparing social data and epidemiological data, showed that the first people affected by the virus belong to the most vulnerable populations, live in urban or peri-urban areas and cannot use telework. Inequalities of exposure often occur when you are employed in connection with the public or in an activity that has been maintained on site, such as in the health, social, agri-food, trade or industry sectors. Beyond the age-related factor, some pathologies aggravate covid -19 symptoms: obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes. These pathologies, identified as aggravating co-morbidities, are unevenly distributed throughout the territory: the Hauts-de-France, Normandy, the Grand Est, La Réunion and Corsica are the regions where the 45 to 65 years are even more likely than elsewhere to develop a serious form of coronavirus. I will therefore stress that, despite a high level of health spending, territorial inequalities remain deeply reflected in the health reality of our country. Our political group constantly recalls this problem, particularly when examining each PLFSS. The resources devoted to correcting these inequalities are insufficient. So it remains for our health care system to equip itself with the tools needed to fill the gap in many of our regions. We must also include in the law the indices taking into account this regional health situation for the distribution of the regional intervention fund, the IRF. Finally, there remains a great absence: prevention, which is not sufficiently identified, structured, recognised, while it could be truly effective at the territorial level. As we have already said, the bill does not reflect the desire for a decentralization shock. Nor does it represent a break from previous social security budgets, since the cost-saving measures are once again based on the drugs and medical devices sector. Of course, he is asked less, but always too much. And this raises the following question: how can the drug sector be revived and relocated while asking for further efforts to lower prices? However, we note the decision to set the M rate – the target for drug expenditure – in terms of value rather than rates, which will improve the readability of regulatory mechanisms. However, this text contains measures to be welcomed, as concrete progress has been made: the opening of interesting experiments, in particular concerning the mixed model of financing medical activities; the health supplement tax; the extension of the system of exemption from employers' charges for the employment of casual workers seeking employment in the agricultural sector; some measures to simplify declarative approaches. During the crisis, the use of medical teleconsultation accelerated considerably, which is a good thing. This experience must contribute to the reflection on the complementary solution of access to the path of care offered by this device in the medical world of tomorrow. We will support the continuation of 100% health insurance coverage for teleconsultations, but we also believe that participation of complementary health care could be explored. The extension of paternity leave is a balanced development. As it only lasts from eleven to twenty-five days, it will not weigh too heavily on public finances. However, with a mandatory period of time to respond to social distinctions, the incentive to use them is greatly strengthened, which will enable everyone to benefit from this social advance, which I believe is in line with the rights of the child. To conclude my remarks, I would like to address a long-awaited subject which now finds a framework with the PLFSS: the creation of the fifth branch of social security, devoted to autonomy. The latter, although expected to face the demographic challenge, had been pushed back by successive governments for several years. It is now included in the bill, and we welcome it. However, the bill on age and autonomy is not yet on the agenda, when it will be essential to define the model we want to establish to care for people with disabilities and our elders. Above all, announcing a new branch of social security dedicated to self-reliance without any measures to combat dependency and to support people with disabilities is tantamount to further increasing the frustration of those who are intended to help. In addition, the autonomous branch will be financed by the grant of 1.9 points of CSG – a generalised social contribution – which, through a set of budget lines, will actually make all new financing based on debt. Finally, we regret that the Government has missed an opportunity by failing to take up recommendations from the report of the commission of inquiry on combating fraud in social benefits. Our group wanted to propose to you many amendments resulting from these recommendations, but they seem to be seen as legislative riders, when they are not simply censored without a legal basis. Our group is sorry that the recommendations set out in the report could not be incorporated into the bill. How can we justify that the fight against fraud in social benefits is unrelated to the social security budget? It's incomprehensible. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] As you can see, much remains to be done, and this PLFSS does not seem to us to contain all the provisions that it would be urgent to undertake. While the next few weeks will be critical of the increase in the number of hospitalizations, the main question remains the duration of the crisis and the recovery path of the economy, on which will depend the bulk of the social security revenues. It is therefore on the basis of the discussions and clarifications made that the UDI-I Group will determine its final vote on this draft law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u111	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u112	Last year, as we began our work on the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020, I deplored a timid and insufficient text to carry out the far-reaching reforms necessary for the sustainability and improvement of our social protection system. With the epidemic of covid-19, this concern has increased and now adds uncertainty. The objective of a return to balance, pursued by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium, had already been undermined last year by the non-compensation of emergency measures related to the movement of yellow vests. From now on, the trajectory towards equilibrium seems to be permanently interrupted. The deficit in the general scheme and the FSV – the Old Age Solidarity Fund – is expected to reach EUR 44.4 billion in 2020, instead of the EUR 5.1 billion foreseen in the latest law on the financing of social security. And the forecasts for the next four years suggest that the deficits will remain between EUR 20 billion and EUR 25 billion. In reality, these forecasts will depend on changes in the health situation; It is impossible to know what will happen within a month or a year. The new restrictions decided on last week in the context of the state of health emergency already call on us to anticipate an even greater deterioration of social accounts. In this context, the Government has decided to impose an exceptional contribution on complementary health organizations in 2020 and 2021. If we understand that an effort can be asked of all actors in this exceptional period, we are concerned about the consequences of such a measure: it should not be done at the expense of insured persons, who could see additional health costs increase. Despite these deficit forecasts, our responsibility is to ensure that our social security system can continue to play its protective role, as it has done even more vigorously since the beginning of the crisis. However, our room for manoeuvre to carry out long-awaited reforms is even more limited, even though the challenges are immense. I will focus particularly on two of them: the growing difficulties in accessing care in our health care system; insufficient support for the autonomy of older persons or persons with disabilities. The health crisis has revealed, if not aggravated, the continuing failures of our health care system. We know these shortcomings only too well. They are the result of a policy that has been going on for too many years, which has led to the adoption of budgetary restraints in health facilities. At the hospital, activity pricing and low career attractiveness resulted in service closures, bed closures and a shortage of staff. More than ever, it is time to renew our vision; This crisis must be an opportunity for real change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u114	At a minimum, a moratorium on the closure of beds and services is required. Activity pricing must also be questioned. In this regard, we welcome the experiment on medical activities provided for in the text. But there is an urgent need: we encourage faster action to ensure that institutional funding truly reflects health needs. It is necessary to put an end to the concept of hospital enterprise, which makes the budgetary balance the steering element of the hospital and the quality of the care a variable of adjustment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u115	Very fair.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u116	In the context of a health crisis, we are wondering about the so-called "regulation" effort, which the text establishes at EUR 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u117	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u118	In addition, the High Council for Public Finance has estimated that the €4.3 billion envelope for the purchase of masks, tests and vaccines will be insufficient, putting into question our ability to fight the epidemic. Above all, Minister Delegate, I insist on this point: the urgency is the staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u120	Finally, we must create conditions that ensure that the needs for recruitment, remuneration and working conditions are met. However, there is much to fear that this PLFSS will not succeed. While the salary increases resulting from the Ségur de la santé are to be welcomed, health care institutions are alerting us to their cash flow difficulties and lack of visibility to achieve them. The additional index processing of 183 euros per month, which will ultimately result in an NBI – a new index bonus – is a good thing, but that is not what all staff expect. They expect a real upgrading of the index grids of the hospital and territorial public service; For now, we're not there. The measures announced are only a first step towards catching up. We remain far from the OECD average – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Above all, many personnel have been forgotten, especially in the areas of medico-social and disability. This needs to be addressed quickly as it creates distortions, leading to requests for transfer of service in an already tense context. Finally, we fear that the recruitment target of 15,000 staff will not be met. Institutions are still waiting for clear guidelines on the subject and are already experiencing recruitment difficulties as these occupations are in high tension. Beyond the hospital, the health crisis has reinforced the dysfunctions of our system of support for elderly people with disabilities, such as the lack of staff in EHPAD, the lack of recognition of home helpers, the need for withdrawal of family caregivers, and the difficult coordination between health and medico-social fields. It is obvious that the lack of resources allocated to the medical and social sector has had an impact on the tragedy that took place in our EHPADs. While the bill on old age and autonomy has been constantly pushed back since the beginning of the quinquennium, the health crisis proves to us that there is an urgent need to legislate on this issue. Once again, priority must be given to trades. Medical and social institutions and EHPADs no longer manage to recruit and deplore the departure of their staff. New funding for the medico-social sector is, of course, provided for in the text, in particular for wage increases and investments. This is a first effort, but we need to amplify it and continue it. The creation of a fifth branch on support and autonomy will be futile if it is not accompanied by a comprehensive and ambitious policy. It is not just a question of providing physical assistance to people in situations of dependence who cannot carry out the acts of daily life alone. The reflection must be broader because it is in fact a question of creating the conditions guaranteeing that everyone can decide for himself, whatever his age, place of residence or state of health; That's what autonomy is. At the present time, however, we do not create a universal right to autonomy. We repeat the tasks currently assigned to the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, with a slight change in scope due to the integration of the education allowance for the disabled child. I repeat, there is a lack of real reflection on what autonomy means and involves. The creation of a branch devoted to autonomy must lead us, among other things, to leave the operation which has prevailed since the 1990s, which has led to two types of allowance: the disability compensation benefit for persons with disabilities and the personal autonomy allowance for the elderly. This age barrier, we have to blow it up! Finally, new funding must be provided to this branch, which the text does not do. The allocation, decided last August, of a fraction of the CSG to a level of 0.15 points from 2024 onwards will not suffice, while the elderly in a situation of dependency will, on their own, see their number increase by 20,000 people per year, with an acceleration from 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and GDR groups]] We will do no better than yesterday with the methods and recipes of the previous day. A real software change is required. I do not deny the progress made in this text or the Government's financial commitment, but the exceptional situation in which our country finds itself must invite us to vote for an exceptional social security budget, commensurate with the challenges at stake. As it stands, the Freedom and Territories Group will therefore not be able to support the text. We expect positive inflections for the health care system and the medical-social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u123	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u124	Without disrespect, Minister Delegate, I wrote my speech with your colleague Véran in mind. You'll tell him or you'll tell him to watch the video.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u126	History, exceptional: we lack the qualifiers to describe our period. And yet, like not feeling disgust and anger when reading this bill to finance social security? It is often in the face of the unexpected that masks fall; This text is like a zoom to look at the iniquitous policy that you have been leading since the beginning of the legislature. This is one of the most important texts of the year, as we discuss hospitals, reimbursement of medicines, unemployment and family benefits, retirement pensions and other social rights acquired just after the Second World War. [["Ah! » on the SOC and GDR benches]] In fact, the current situation reminds me – even if the comparison has its limits – of the critical state in which France was in post-war France. Although the country was on the ground financially, Ambrose Croizat, in her first speech as Minister before the National Assembly, made social security the Government's priority: "We must end suffering, indignity, exclusion. From now on, we will protect man from need. What face would France have if, after the war, Ambrose Croizat had declared that, in order to revive the economic machine, it was necessary to carry out additional cuts in our social system and distribute exemptions in a mess? It was thanks to health insurance that the patients of the Covid-19 were able to obtain treatment without debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u127	The Minister of Solidarity and Health is coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u128	Oh, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u129	But this crisis has also revealed the fragility of our social system. During the year 2020, inequalities exploded, due to confinement, but not just. A recent report from France strategy has again come to attest to the policy favourable to the ultra-rich that you are leading: it shows that the reforms of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – and the flat tax have blown up the incomes of the most affluent French people and shareholders. The conclusion is without appeal: the richer people, the faster their incomes have increased. At the same time, extreme poverty and the number of people unemployed or at the RSA – income from active solidarity – have increased very strongly. With this crisis, the country has an additional 1 million poor. Nothing can stem the delict of society, which leads to the worst, except national solidarity. While we are going to vote for a new budget for social security, a redistribution policy should be made clear. But it is the total emptiness, the absolute nothingness. The financial situation of social security is disastrous, and you are only making it worse. "No matter what it costs," said Emmanuel Macron last March, even mentioning the "Happy Days" – as a good communication professional, he obviously had no idea what the post-war program contained. In fact, your policy continues to weaken social security. For the first time in history, its funding will come from tax rather than social contributions this year. The savings you intend to make in 2021 on health insurance also testify to the fact that you did not learn any lessons from the crisis. Indeed, if we exclude the expenses directly related to the covid-19 and the upgrading of the salaries of caregivers, you intend to save 4 billion euros in 2021! How dare you, Mr. Veran? Every year, for three years, as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, you have forced the public hospital to save almost EUR 1 billion, despite the congestion of services and the flight of staff. How dare you pursue this infernal logic this year? Admittedly, at the end of 2019, the Government announced that in three years, the State would recover a third of the hospital debt. But this will not even have brought 100 million euros in 2020 to health facilities, according to the Hospital Federation of France. We're a long way from the billions we're asking for. And it is not to mention that only hospitals carrying out redundancies and closures of services will be able to benefit from this debt recovery. This policy is a rampant privatization of health, which has already largely begun: the lucrative private sector is in strong development, since in ten years its share has increased from 25 to 35 per cent of the provision of care. But your concern is elsewhere: liberalizing the care sector and developing outpatient medicine, as always. That's how your funding bill looks at hospital hotels: patients will be swept away from the hospital to their hotel room, and vice versa, further complicating the management of flows and beds in the labyrinth of our institutions' corridors. Indecency, you communicate on a fifth branch, dedicated to autonomy, when it will in fact receive only already existing credits and no increase is foreseen for the elderly or disabled. The elderly are once again the great forgeters of this bill: all my amendments to improve their fate have been censored under section 45 of the Constitution, on the pretext that they had no connection with the text. EHPAD staff will continue their infernal race from room to room to make the toilets in five minutes time on often bruised bodies. This is the fate reserved for our seniors placed in institutions. To turn your eyes away as you do makes you complicit in these sufferings. Let us come, Minister of Solidarity and Health, to your calamitous management of the crisis of the Covid-19. The list of your shortcomings is long in this period; examples of incoherence are abundant. You have still not decided to suspend waiting days: in order not to lose money, employees are thus encouraged to go to work, even if they are carriers of the virus and therefore contagious. Another aberration: our assembly voted last year that industrialists would have to build up four-month stocks for drugs of major therapeutic interest. But what did we learn last month? You refuse to implement this public health measure! Drug shortages continue and you continue to bow to the wishes of the pharmaceutical industries, which are contrary to the general interest. In every corner of the world, these industrialists are running an unbridled race to find a vaccine against covid-19 and to market it: this frenzy should encourage the public authorities to closely monitor the research carried out and to ensure that the population will not be put at risk by sloppy clinical trials and that prices will be regulated. This is the subject of a series of amendments which we have tabled but which your majority has rejected in committee. You practice the policy of laissez-faire, trampling on the commitments you made to the World Health Organization on transparency and allowing you to be trampled by Sanofi and company shareholders. In the right liberal logic, you are content with completely ineffective financial incentives. Let us continue our review of your calamitous management of the crisis. You continue to refuse the reimbursement of masks through health insurance, forcing families to pay to protect themselves and others. And what about caregivers, who we believe should be the priority of this bill? They don't want to go back to the front to treat the covid-19 patients because they're exhausted. It is not with a cheque of 183 euros that things will change and that caregivers will agree to sacrifice their lives with enormous responsibilities and stress. This salary increase, although to be emphasized, will just compensate for the wage freeze of the previous ten years, but unfortunately will not bear the brunt of the decline in the resources allocated to hospitals, which is continuing. Strikes and demonstrations are increasing against your Segur. You may say that we have enough beds, but you know very well that this is not true. To open new beds, you need caregivers. Will they be at the rendezvous, while many felt despised after the first wave? I am thinking in particular of all those who you refused the covid bonus because they did not have the right status. Minister, yes or no, do you intend to repay 10 billion hospital debt, but only in exchange for bed suppression targets? Yes or no, do our caregivers resign from our EHPADs and hospitals? Yes or no, is there a tight flow of personal protective equipment, especially gloves? Yes or no, do our caregivers continue to wear overblouses in garbage bags?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u130	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u131	Yes or no, are you about to train caregivers in two weeks? Do you so misunderstand my profession that you consider useless the remaining 195 days of my training? Yes or no, are we going straight into the wall? If you answer "no," minister, take and take an oath of hypocrite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u132	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u133	Come on, the formula isn't wrong, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u134	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] If you admit that what I said is true, will you agree with me that this bill is absolutely not up to the priority of the moment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u135	Your words are lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u136	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u137	As we celebrate the 75th anniversary of social security, the PLFSS for 2021 presented to us is a crisis budget. It shows that the Government has been caught up in reality for a time, because so far you have refused to open your eyes to the extent of hospital anger. The health care staff had already sounded the alarm for several months before the epidemic hit our country. The suffering was at its peak and half of the emergency services were on strike in September 2019 to demand hiring, salary increases and bed openings. Four plans were announced between 2018 and 2019 without the means ever meeting the demands of the health world. For too long, the executive has opposed them the same answer: it is not a problem of financial resources, but a problem of organization. It is this logic that guided your "my health 2022" reform, which includes the redesign of the hospital map and a reorganization of the health care system, without increasing funding. It was also this speech that was held by the President of the Republic to the nurses of the Rothschild Hospital in October: "We will not create posts and beds because the covid arrives; It's impossible." This health crisis caught up with you brutally; It reminds you of your own turpitudes and renders the choices made in previous exercises obsolete, promising blind cuts in health and social benefits. It invalidates the attacks carried out over the past 30 years against the public hospital service. These policies, you have extended them since you came to the responsibilities: since 2017, 7,600 hospital beds have been closed and 4 billion savings have been requested from hospitals to restore social accounts to forced march. We must put an end to these mortifying orientations that damage our health care system and create suffering among caregivers. We have to end the accounting and managerial pilotage of the public hospital. We must end the race for activity and the commodification of care. At least for a while, the struggles of healthcare workers and the health crisis have forced you to review your doctrine on the capping of health expenditure, in the face of shortages in hospitals in terms of equipment and the acute shortage of hospital staff and beds. Forced by the circumstances, you have resolved to identify additional means to revalue the salaries of hospital and EHPAD staff as part of the Secur de la santé. These salary increases are welcome but do not fully compensate for ten years of freezing the index point in the hospital civil service: we are only moving from the 22nd to the 18th place for nursing wages among European countries, according to the OECD. This is better, but it is still insufficient: 30 per cent of the posts remain vacant in the public hospital because the conditions of remuneration and work are not sufficiently attractive compared to those of the private sector. Despite the commitments of the Government, the Ségur de la santé is making forgotten people among the caregivers. I am thinking in particular of midwives, but also of staff from medical and social institutions, outside EHPAD, and state-graded surgical nurses. This draft budget for 2021, far from being historic, is, in our view, that of missed opportunities. There is still a lack of resources for hiring hospital staff and opening beds. Only 15,000 recruitments and the opening of 4000 beds on demand were announced as part of the Ségur. However, in order to have 12,000 resuscitation beds in order to cope with the outbreak, we would have to deploy 24,000 nurses and 10,500 health workers! [[The speaker interrupts to drink a glass of water]] In the face of the health emergency, we must start today a major employment and training plan...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u138	The glass is half empty now, Mr. Rapporteur-General!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u139	No, he's filling up, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u140	In the face of the health emergency, I said, we must start today a major employment and training plan for the health professions, which will fund the recruitment of 100,000 hospital staff and 200,000 medical and social personnel. That is why we have proposed a program law for the public hospital and the EHPADs, which would allow us to plan the needs for the next few years. In addition, the organisation of expenditure related to covid-19 and salary adjustments does not prevent a savings plan of EUR 4 billion on health insurance expenditure, including EUR 800 million on the operating expenditure of the public hospital, in order to enter the nails of ONDAM. What you give on one side, you take it back from the other. In the same register, the recovery of €13 billion in hospital debt to promote investment is subject to savings commitments on current hospital expenditure, controlled by regional health agencies. Behind a good measure, you recycle the logic of accounting management of care, which is one of the causes of hospital malaise. We are absolutely opposed to the creation of an emergency pass of 18 euros, to the burden of patients who do not get hospitalized. It is not up to them to pay for the congestion of hospital emergencies; It is not up to them to pay for the shortage of doctors in the cities available. Finally, with regard to the creation of the autonomy branch, our fears are confirmed: financing is not at the rendezvous to face the challenge of the loss of autonomy; ambition needs to be strengthened to improve social benefits for dependent and disabled people, and to reduce the remaining burden on families in terms of housing. We must also go much further to improve the working conditions of the medico-social sector and the home help sector. Despite the missed opportunities, we note some positive measures, such as extending paternity leave or reducing the place of activity pricing in hospital funding. Social benefits are also preserved in the draft budget for 2021, after three years of unindexing. Now, with the health crisis, there is the question of financing social protection to face the challenges ahead: who will pay the bill? The social security deficit will reach €44 billion in 2020 and then €27 billion in 2021. This deterioration in the accounts is due as much to the increase in health expenditure as to a fall in revenue due to the decline in employment and the use of partial activity. There is an urgent need to find new resources to finance the health and social needs that will grow as a result of the health crisis and economic shock. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have put proposals on the table, for example the revision of exemptions from unjustified social contributions. We should at least require that the EUR 68 billion of the public aid package for enterprises be subject to employment and relocation criteria and ecological commitments. But all our proposals have been rejected, on the grounds that taxes should not be increased. At the same time, however, you are depriving yourself of sustainable resources by allocating €18 billion from CSG and CRDS – a contribution to the repayment of social debt – to the repayment of a social debt resulting from the Government's choices to manage the health and economic crisis. With this transfer of debt to the CADES, the equivalent of a Secur de la santé is lost every year. Rather than making the state bear the debt linked to the covid-19, you prefer to play the watch, allowing the social security deficit to grow without offering a sustainable resource. There is much to bet that you will soon come back to us to demand further savings measures on social protection and insured persons. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] In these circumstances, the GDR Group fears that the social security budget for 2021 will be only a parenthesis before the return to austerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u141	Mrs Audrey Dufeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u142	Since its creation in 1945, social security had never experienced such a serious crisis. And yet, this text is unprecedented: the public authorities will never have deployed so many means in the service of "care". The health crisis that we are experiencing has accelerated on the essential subject of the recognition of caregivers' wages. For a long time, many on the benches of this assembly called for their vows, but none had the courage to do so. I am proud to belong to a majority that supports the care soldiers in this way. I would also like to stress the responsible nature of the budget proposal submitted by the Government. It anticipates the duration of the health crisis, by providing more than 4.3 billion specifically for the financing of personal protective equipment and future vaccines, or the strengthening of the human resources of Public Health France, whose teams I would like to pay tribute to, which have been working tirelessly since last March. We must act and join forces to ensure that the health crisis does not turn into a major economic crisis. That is why, as early as March, the Government introduced measures to support businesses and employees, no matter what the cost, by increasing the national target of health insurance expenditure to more than 7.6 per cent by 2020. These measures affect the balance of our budget, but they are necessary to increase future revenues. Preserving jobs is not only an economic but also a social measure. Preserving jobs means fighting poverty and insecurity. Preserving jobs means preserving the income of social security. The return to balance, in the medium term, of our social protection system will depend on our ability to get out of the crisis we are going through. It will require tailor-made financial support. We will have to renovate the ONDAM in the next PLFSS. I know, Minister, that you have commissioned a specific report on the subject at HCAAM – the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u144	It should also be stressed that the compensation of the social security exemption measures decided by the Government for the year 2021, which will cost 5 billion euros, is integral - I insist, integral. This fair measure will ensure that the burden of these exemptions is not placed on social security and that a 6% ONDAM is provided for fiscal year 2021. The Government is proposing a draft law on the financing of social security that is moving forward. You are reviving our country's so affected economy while protecting the most fragile. Where others had receded, after the 2008 crisis, repelling the creation of the fifth branch, called the "dependency branch" at the time, we, for our part, took action last spring to create the autonomous branch, simply because we know that it is in the most difficult times that the most vulnerable need a strong social protection system. The policy of support for self-reliance for the elderly was compartmentalized and linked only to health problems, conveying the idea that ageing would be a disease. The new branch of autonomy must be at the forefront of strengthening the rights of older people in our society, in order to fight against ageism and denounce it. To do this, we need to develop agile, cross-cutting policies. The La République en marche group has reaffirmed its desire to support the home care sector. We welcome the Government's commitment to provide long-term funding for salary increases for home help, amounting to €200 million per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u145	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u146	I support this ambitious and relevant draft budget, together with all colleagues in my group, in an unprecedented economic situation. The measures taken by the Government since 2017 in the field of social security have reassured the financial markets, allowing us, even at the hardest of the crisis, to secure the financing of our social benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u147	But that's not how you're going to reassure the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This confidence of the financial markets in the issue of France's social debt shows that only a humanist policy, oriented towards our fellow citizens, has real value for our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u149	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u150	Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, allow me to tell you that, for your first PLFSS, we have particularly appreciated the humorous authority with which you have been able to conduct our debates; Be grateful and thank you. I would also like to thank the new rapporteur-general, who has been able to slip into this difficult role, often at the edge of the hammer and the anvil, with a great deal of seriousness and bonhomy. Sometimes there is a lack of boldness towards the Government, but I am sure it will come over time, when the glass is filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u151	And no nice word about me?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u152	So, Minister, your PLFSS would be historic. As always, you have not been able to prevent yourself from making an immoral use of this adjective, which, since 2017, has qualified the least of your businesses. It would therefore be your trademark that the least of your words or actions become a kind of anointing, giving everything a historical character.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u153	And even sacred!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u154	It would be laughable if it weren't so pathetic. For, you see, history is built over time, and its judgment often takes place long after the facts. If you run too hard after time, you're going through the steps and you're going to risk being judged harshly. Mr Minister, remember that last year, at the same time, in this House, you supported, as rapporteur-general, at the first reading of the PLFSS, a decline of the hospital ONDAM to 2.1%, when we were in the midst of an emergency crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u155	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u156	Was it also a historical act? In the midst of a health crisis that will enter history, do you think that the cacophony on masks, tests, openings and closures of bars and restaurants has a historical character? You see how relative the supposedly historical character of your PLFSS is. Be careful, therefore, to mistreat history, that its court does not hasten to condemn you, and public opinion with him. So, at the heart of the health crisis, health workers say they can't do it anymore, and you react quickly by giving them well-deserved salary adjustments. They would therefore be historical, whereas, for three years, they had been demanding them out loud, without ever having been heard by your predecessor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u157	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u158	... no more than by you, who already had the ability to influence decisions. At the heart of the crisis, you decide to create a fifth branch of social security, supposed to finance dependency, which would of course be historical. But what history will remember is your inability to mobilize viable and sustainable recipes for this important issue, as those of the CRDS are now unavailable until 2033 and certainly 2043. So, as you can see, there is no interest in what would be historical and what would not be historical; To judge history, you have to take a step back and work for a long time. So get out of your lock-up and tell us what your vision for health is: how do you see the inevitable and necessary changes in our health care system within the next five or ten years? What are the adaptations we need to anticipate? How will we sustain the financing of this whole to be rebuilt? These are some questions that, had they found answers in your speeches and a beginning of execution in your PLFSS, might have made you enter history as one of the few ministers of health for twenty-five years to be asked of you. I'm going to make a confession to you: no more than you, I don't believe in any truth revealed in terms of health. The subject matter is too complex and the issues are too important for anyone to declare themselves to be the owner of all the solutions. Health must return to being the first of the political subjects, because it is, more than ever, the first concern of the French. So, on the question of the future of our health system and its financing, open a real political debate, not a technical debate! Invite all those who think about this issue to contribute to it! Propose – let's be crazy – that the general police station on the plan seize it and collect proposals! President Obama used to say that we must not ruin a crisis, in the sense that we must learn the best from it. Agree with me that this is the right time for this and that it is more than time to get out of the accounting logic in which any debate on health has been locked up for ages. Look at him objectively, minister, outside of the cyclical measures, how does your PLFSS differ from the twenty-five that preceded it? The Court of Auditors, in the midst of a health crisis, in the meantime, still considers that the health of the French people is too expensive and that we must continue to bring our health system into a budget funnel of which everyone knows how deadly it is. What do you propose different? The savings required from the drug and medical devices sectors are certainly less important than in previous years, but do you honestly believe that they will bring back to France, the production of medicinal products that are part of South-East Asia, or that they will promote therapeutic innovation for the benefit of French patients? You are planning a resumption of hospital debt, and I agree with you on the analysis that restoring air to hospital finances is of interest. However, apart from the fact that this recovery will take place over a period of time, this time too long and will not create the momentum expected, this is a measure that will only take full force if future ONDAMs are sufficiently high not to push hospitals back into excessive debt. Now, and this is where the building is hurting, because you do not really think about the future of health, you are taking the risk of annihilating, as soon as the next law on the financing of social security comes into force, the effects of this good idea of debt recovery, and you can only agree with me that the budgetary efforts made in this PLFSS will be worth only one year, the debt of health insurance forcing us to a severe and lasting shortage. Minister, everyone knows that on these benches, you've long dreamed of this wallet, and you haven't been able to get it under the best circumstances, that's the least you can say. That is why I will not join my voice with all those who, for months, have been improvising themselves expert and providing advice on crisis management, most often misguided, through interviews or speeches. I do not hesitate to say here that the management of the crisis would no doubt be more serene, for you as for the French, if all the doctors who march on the television sets returned to their service and devoted themselves exclusively to their patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u159	[[Smile]] For some, this is not recommended...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u160	That being said, why neglect, forget and despise, in your PLFSS, community health actors who, throughout the territory, fought alongside the public hospital with great availability? Why refer to the conventional negotiations of the liberals in 2023, that is to say the Greek calends, when many health professionals, public or private, will quickly see their remuneration increase? Why forget the staff of municipal health centres or associations? Why neglect liberal cabinet staff? I know how hard it is for your administration to get rid of this old "hospitalocentrism" that has been guiding and leading it for years. However, given the necessary recognition that the nation owes to each and every one of its caregivers, you cannot keep liberal professionals and their collaborators out of the way. Where there is no longer a hospital, where, even at the heart of the crisis, services and beds continue to be closed, liberal professionals are often the ones who take over, ensure the continuity of care and, in doing so, do not contribute much to the public health service. Keeping them away from any tariff adjustment for several more years would be a mistake that you can still avoid. You won't gain anything from opposing healthcare professionals to each other. At the heart of the health crisis, all the skills, all the energies must be mobilized, and it is your responsibility to ensure this; I want to believe you can't stay deaf to this call. Why, unless it is your inability to meet your budget commitments, have gone to the complementary bodies, to the tune of 1.5 billion euros? You are trying to explain to us that this would be a voluntary and spontaneous contribution. But you see, in law, a voluntary and spontaneous contribution, it's called a gift, not a tax. You justify it because of the postponement of the numerous surgical procedures, but they will eventually take place, and it will be necessary for the OCAM – the supplementary health insurance bodies – to contribute to it: how, therefore, will you prevent them from increasing the contributions of their members? [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] Finally, if it is true that the quality of a society appreciates the efforts it makes for the weakest among its own, how can you qualify the one you offer us, where mental illness is trampled on? Where are the strong measures for psychiatry in the Segur of Health or in your PLFSS for 2021? How do you intend to ensure the care of these thousands of French people who, during or after confinement, have slipped, decompensated, sank into depression or long-term psychiatric pathologies? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Minister, you will agree with me that the time for history has not yet come. For the time now, you will not be surprised, the Republican Group will not be able to support your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u161	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u162	The Social Security Financing Bill for 2021 is specific in more than one way. It includes a realization, an encryption, an ambition and promises. These promises are the result of long expectations and the result of a crisis in our health care system, a crisis that we know of ins and outs but whose effects have been minimized for too long. If our health care system is experiencing structural difficulties, it can rely on the unwavering self-denial and commitment of all caregivers. As we begin our discussions on the text which concerns them directly every year, I would like, on behalf of my group, to pay them the tribute they deserve. In the coming days, our Assembly will consider a new social security budget in many respects. It is obvious that we will not be able to overcome thirty years of deficiencies in our health system: the blatant shortage of doctors; hospital services that close; a two-speed medicine, with sick people in the cities and sick people in the fields. However, it is a costly but absolutely necessary expenditure dynamic, if only to recognise the quality of the human resources that form the basis of it. Thus, this draft budget, in terms of its size and the awareness it translates, is exceptional in more than one way. You, Minister, have learned the lessons of this crisis by convening the Ségur de la santé, transcribed the budget lines of this funding bill. Even if proof of money is not evidence of love, it is necessary to give women and men who care for the nation the means to act and greater recognition. In concrete terms, this text implements public policies that are repeatedly desired and rejected. I am, of course, thinking about salary increases for nurses and EHPAD staff. It should be remembered that almost 2200 euros are worth more each year. This is a strong signal that our group can only rejoice at. We also hope that the ongoing discussions on the upgrading of the salaries of staff working in private sector institutions will soon lead to an agreement equivalent to that of the public and will be reflected in the tariffs linking them to health insurance. Indeed, although often criticized, private structures operate an essential territorial grid. Clinics also played a crucial role, at the height of last spring's crisis, by deprogramming their operations, mobilising their resuscitation services when necessary and allowing their staff to come back to public hospitals; It should be kept in mind. As we have said, the expenditure indicators in this budget are on the rise. This represents a 2.5% increase in the constant-scope ONDAM, to which must be added the commitments of the Ségur and the covid effect, an overall increase of the ONDAM of 11.7 billion euros. This indicator is valuable as it reveals a trend. However, the follow-up to ONDAM must be optimised, especially when you announce its renovation. In considering the text in committee, our group has indicated that it will be particularly vigilant on this point. If we have Annex 7, specifically dedicated to its analysis, it seems to us that we need to go further in the details of this follow-up, like the mechanism implemented in the framework of the finance bills and the annual performance reports. This is not only about the transparency of social security accounts, but also about the information of parliamentarians and of all the French. This insight into the use of the social security budget is necessary to make it a real governance tool. It is for us to be able to fully measure the spread on the ground of the measures we vote on every year for billions of euros. This brings me quite naturally to the question of health democracy. Last spring's crisis showed that the dialogue between elected officials and regional health agencies could take place perfectly, but it could also be very difficult, if not non-existent. It is therefore essential that the exchanges between these two entities become institutional and normal. The current health situation shows us every day the importance of providing information and consultation prior to decision-making. It is therefore essential to give a second breath, a new impetus to health democracy. National and local elected officials must be able to participate fully in the deployment of public health policy. With this in mind, our group will present several amendments so that health democracy is not just a concept but a daily reality. This text also gives concrete expression to a major measure: the recovery of the health institutions' debt to the tune of 13 billion euros, which must give our institutions the means to invest again and to clean up their financial situation. In this regard, we hope that the allocation of funding will be as fair and balanced as possible, that they will not benefit only from the largest deficit structures, to the detriment of institutions with healthier and more responsible management, thus less indebted; This money must be given to those who need it most, rather than the so-called least, we are counting on you to do so, minister. This PLFSS also makes it possible to advance on the recognition of home helpers' trades. We are pleased that the Government and the departments have reached an agreement to finance a premium for these personnel. While this measure is well reflected in the text, many of us have expressed concern that a more permanent mechanism will not appear to allow for a real rise in this sector. It appears that the Government has heard this appeal since it will propose, by way of amendment, a concrete and substantial measure, which was announced earlier; That's very good news. If we are pleased with this commitment, we would like to share with you the situation of those who worked during the crisis of the covid-19, not only in the field of autonomy and disability, but also with the children under protection, in the children's homes and the various structures of social assistance for children. We must not forget these educators, foster families and all the staff who have accompanied the children under protection. The recognition of liberal doctors is one of the other subjects on which we wish to stress. The postponement of the Liberal Convention negotiations does not seem to match the commitment of the liberal doctors, who were often on the front line during the health crisis. It would be necessary to conclude these negotiations before March 2023, on the one hand to recognize the commitment and work of city doctors, on the other hand to give a new attraction to the profession. We are also concerned about the issue of healthy sport. As we know, the sedentary nature of our societies leads to diseases that are costly for social security. The comorbidity associated with covid-19 illustrates the ills of our way of life: hypertension, obesity, diabetes, so many factors that we could eliminate if we invest more in health sport, if the population became aware of the problem and if the public authorities were more incentiveful. It would be relevant to transform our thinking patterns into this matter. Our group cannot at last speak of family policy. The Government is proposing this year a very strong measure of doubling the length of paternity leave and making it compulsory in part. This is a historic step forward, which meets the expectations of our fellow citizens and will contribute to the strengthening of equality between women and men in our society. To further strengthen family policy, our group, as every year since the beginning of the legislature, will propose an amendment to make the payment of the birth premium effective and to exempt it from reimbursement in the event of the death of the child. Since last year's PLFSS, it seems that these ideas have come their way, as this House has adopted them through several bills. In order to avoid making the entry into force of these social justice measures conditional on the completion of the parliamentary shuttle, we consider it appropriate to include them in legislation at this time. For the same reason, we proposed allowing midwives to practice instrumental IVG. I use the past because the meandering of the admissibility of the amendments – sometimes admissible in committee, sometimes inadmissible in session – will not allow us to address the subject by amendment. So, Minister, we are asking you to move forward together through something other than a parliamentary amendment. Finally, we would like to welcome the extension of the TODE scheme – casual workers seeking employment – for one year, given the economic consequences of the health crisis for farmers. The extension of this transition must enable us to move towards a viable and sustainable system. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In just a few minutes, this is the state of play and the perspectives that our group had on the PLFSS for 2021. Let us not be mistaken: the draft law on the financing of social security is promising and ambitious, and the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats is approaching its consideration in a constructive spirit. He will propose to enrich and densify it through several amendments which I ask you in advance to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u163	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u164	The funding bill we are looking at here is unique, because many of the measures contained in it are in a unique context. It's new, you say; It is true, because it took a new situation: the crisis of covid-19 and the commitment of caregivers at the risk of their lives for a number of subjects to find a beginning of response. In fact, we ourselves suggested some of these measures in our emergency plan for the hospital a year ago, but our proposals came up against your indifference. I will mention a number of points which, in the debate that will be before us, seem to me to require further clarification. The first is the level of ONDAM, which, with the consequences of covid-19 and Segur of health understood, is completely new. First of all, I wonder about the criteria that led to its elaboration; I am of course thinking of the economic forecasts, which have evolved since the time of the construction of the project, but also of the assumptions of the evolution of the pandemic, of the development of treatments, of the arrival of the vaccine, of the reprogramming of the care, all of which we do not think are taken into account, in view of the way in which you manage the epidemic. I also wonder about the real level of the hospital ONDAM, out of covid -19 and out of segur of health. Indeed, when we look closely at it, it seems to go backwards of what the situation requires, since we are again asking the hospital for savings of the order of 800 million euros. Compared to the trend in expenditure, it is even EUR 2 billion in savings. Finally, like last year, we regret that national representation has not initiated a reform of ONDAM in the first place. Indeed, like last year, we are unable to know whether the French will receive more or less care, whether the individual workload of the healthcare staff will be increased or reduced, whether the level of investment in hospital equipment will be sufficient to achieve the objectives assigned to the caregivers. You have begun a reflection; Don't just think about it, but reform ONDAM as a matter of urgency. I would also like to raise the question of the means of the hospital and to take care of the caregivers, who are addressing the second wave of the epidemic by questioning what the Government has done to prepare the hospital for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u165	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u166	They tell us that human resources continue to be lacking, that the working conditions of caregivers continue to be appalling and that many of them are considering leaving a job they love. Can you tell us how many new posts the Government has budgeted for this year and for the coming years? How many jobs are currently vacant? The ratios, such as the famous "one for fifteen" – a state-graded nurse or a caregiver for fifteen beds – have been abandoned? What is the Government's doctrine regarding the opening or closing of beds? In the end, looking closely at things, we have to ask ourselves whether your ONDAM is as extraordinary as you claim. The third issue I would like to address is the reform of pricing, which has been polarizing criticism for several years. I would like the debate to shed light on the respective shares of the core allocation and the T2A – activity pricing. By deciding to determine the distribution by decree, you deprive national representation of an important debate, because this sharing is decisive. We would like to know the intentions of the Government and understand how the system will work over several years. One can imagine that, in the first year, establishments whose activity has grown strongly will remain at the T2A and those whose activity has stagnated or depreciated will move on to the base endowment. But how will this happen in subsequent years? How do you imagine the evolution of T2A? How do you imagine that the rate of endowments will change?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u167	Upstairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u168	Is it a real reform or simply an announcement effect? Moreover, what will be included in the well-known contracts that will link institutions to their regional health agency ARS? We may wonder whether the planned five-year experiment would not, in substance, be intended not to make a decision. In addition, your experiment provides for a population allocation. We would like to know more: which population? The population of a territory? But, most often, there are several establishments on the same territory. The working-line population? But how can we count it, taking into account the mobility and the evolution of our health? How to establish a per capita distribution? Population endowment, yes, but how? By connecting people to an institution, like referral doctors? How can other considerations, such as social criteria, be taken into account? Your proposals are missing. Finally, quality control is illusory because quality indicators are too succinct to claim compensation for establishments on this basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u169	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u170	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Mr Minister, basically, here is the real question: have you undertaken the structural reforms that the public hospital is waiting for? For our part, we seriously doubt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u171	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u172	Since the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic in our country, beginning in early January, the Government's recommendations on the use of care have been totally surreal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u173	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u174	More than 100,000 liberal health professionals were left out by the famous adage: "Stay confined, good people, and wait for the worsening of the symptoms to compose the 15th. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u175	I didn't get it right. Is there a second wave or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u176	He was followed at the expense of an already dying public hospital, which saw more and more patients passing through the doors and whose cachectic resuscitation services were saturated. It is our entire health system that has been over-solicited and that has had to face the challenge of a health crisis to which no one, let alone the Minister of Solidarity and Health, was prepared. However, these malfunctions are not new and Parliament has already dealt with these issues on numerous occasions. From year to year, he repeated observations highlighting the limits of a health system that was still too fragmented and whose territorial governance was stifled by a plethora of inadequate administrations. I am talking here, of course, about regional health agencies. Medical desertification, too few caregivers, more than saturated emergency services, cared for downstream beds... The transfers of patients from one region to another have been surprising, but I would like to remind you that they have been carried out every winter for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u178	So, nothing new under the covid. The "My Health 2022" plan, designed to improve cooperation between hospital and city medicine, was initiated, but it was damaged as soon as the first patient with covid-19 appeared. The deficit in public hospitals reached €620 million in 2018. All alert to their need for investment, resources and multi-year visibility. It is true that the PLFSS is not just health and the risk of disease, but how can we not insist on the catastrophic situation of our health system, which is being severely tested in the midst of an epidemic? How can we not mention the situation of caregivers, who do not count their hours, who, for some, have been ill, and, for others, have not been able to take their holidays? So far, the answers to their claims have proved insufficient. The PLFSS for 2021 was intended to be the translation of the measures resulting from the Segur of Health. However, these have been insufficient and unacceptable. When did a worthy Segur 2 meet the real expectations? Not to mention the medico-social sector, the disability sector and some totally forgotten health professionals, including SSIAD's nursing staff – home nursing services – to name but a few? Many nurses and caregivers are wondering about their future in the hospital. Some are considering vocational retraining; Others are already gone, totally exhausted, in burn out. They no longer find meaning in their profession. In six years, 17,500 beds were closed, about 3500 in 2019 alone. Behind these figures is the harsh reality of a lower quality public service, imposing unbearable working conditions for healthcare professionals. What sense does his profession have when the main activity of practitioners is to spend hours looking for beds to accommodate more and more patients? The question arises even more in times of health crisis. Our response must live up to their exhaustion and dedication. I do not believe that the creation of an emergency patient package is in a position to respond to the saturation of these services. It is not for the patients, especially the most precarious of them, some of whom do not have complementary health care, to continue to suffer the territorial disorganisation of the care system and its lack of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u179	It's a good thing, the package isn't made for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u180	Finally, I want to have a word for a too often forgotten field of our health care system: mental health. There is a paradox to consider this sector as the poor parent of medicine, while the funds devoted to it are very high. The reality, highlighted in the report that I co-authored with my colleague Fiat in 2019, is that hospital psychiatry suffers from both under-funding and "under-financing", which do not allow the supply to match needs. It was necessary to reform this funding, which we had begun after so many years of consultation and waiting. Therefore, we cannot but regret the postponement of the reform of the psychiatry moderator's ticket.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u181	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u182	I conclude, Mr. President. In addition, the Liberties and Territories Group will propose several amendments in order to go back to certain provisions of Article 42 of the text on restraint and isolation. These techniques should only be used as a last resort. We must ensure, in all circumstances, respect for the rights of individuals and promote as much as possible the patient's free choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u183	You really have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u184	[[Applause on the benches of the LT Group and among non-attached Members]] The economic consequences of the aberrant management of the covid-19 crisis will have unsuspecting social repercussions. Psychiatry will have to face it, but how?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u185	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u186	From now on, all patients going to the emergency room will have to pay a fee of 18 euros, reduced to 8 euros in some cases, including invalids, cancer patients, diabetics, epilepsy patients and pregnant women – fortunately, an amendment by the rapporteur-general is planned to remove them from the list. The only exceptions are the patients of the covid-19 and the victims of terrorism. Each person will have to pay 18 euros if it is established, at the end of his or her visit to the emergency room, that his or her condition does not require hospitalization. I will only talk about one single theme: our opposition to the creation of the patient emergency package. I do not know if all my colleagues have noticed this newness; In any case, I would like to say how shocked I am and how much we condemn her. [[Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Mr Jean Lassalle applaud]] It is worth wondering why such a decision is made. We're guessing it, so we can get rid of the emergency room, they say. But why are we going to the ER? For pleasure? Because we're complaining about a bobo? All French people know that going to the emergency room is waiting for an endless time in completely demoralizing conditions. Then why are they going? Well, because they are not able, as everyone understands, to assess the seriousness of what they feel; They're going there to get an answer. People also go to the emergency room because there are not enough doctors:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u188	...20% of French people say they have already gone to the emergency room in the last two years because of the lack of availability of a city doctor, because there was no one to take care of them; So they're going to the only place we can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u190	Think that 3.8 million French people live in a medical desert. It takes an average of six days to get an appointment with a general practitioner, twenty-two days for a pediatrician, twenty-eight days for a dentist and eighty days for an ophthalmologist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u191	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u192	Therefore, this package will first be a punishment for the poor people and those on the periphery, the ones most affected by the lack of doctors. And what happens when they know it costs 18 euros? They're not going.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u193	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u194	But the 18 euros are then refunded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u195	that they will know that it costs 18 Because they won't be sure to be hospitalized, they won't go to the emergency room, risking their condition getting worse. We know that 45% of French people have already given up going to the doctor because it is too expensive and that 3 million French people do not have a mutual fund, so no possible treatment of the hospital package.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u196	You forget the universal complementary health!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u197	The care will therefore be delayed until they get worse, so until hospitalization – wild hospitalization, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u198	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u199	[[Pierre Dharréville and Caroline Fiat applaud]] [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] "There are mutuals," we will be retorted. Yes, but the supplementarys, mutuals and private insurances will obviously transcribe this new package into their contracts. In ten years, their tariffs have already increased by 47%. And I noted that their management costs increased by 30%. Really, it would be better to have a single social security system from one end to the next that would save us from having to spend 15% of the expenses of the mutuals on the financing of advertising, the private bureaucracy and the shareholders. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, LT and GDR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] I won't say any more. These 18 euros are hard for the weak, and the health consequences will be harsh. For simple people, in everyday life, for those who do not know and seek where to be welcomed, health becomes a luxury. Feeding properly is a food luxury; In terms of housing, living in a healthy place is a luxury; and now luxury becomes medical. It's too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u200	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u201	For three years now, we have been denouncing successive social security budgets, denouncing the political choices they represent, denouncing the weakening of social security, denouncing the breakdown of the public hospital. These budgets, one after the other, have led us to this state of great scarcity, extreme fragility, destitution in the face of the outbreak of the virus. The Government has been caught up in reality. The situation in hospitals is catastrophic: it is the reverse of the medal of a policy that renounces taking money where it is. In establishments, the tension is palpable. Anger too; It's still mounted a little bit, with a bit of extra disillusionment. At a time when there is a great loss of meaning, hearing the usual rengaine – "it's an organizational problem" – exasperates. You may say that no government has done so much for health, but it's not right. The Ségur de la santé does not catch up with the delay for years, does not concern all those that it should embrace and cannot be presented for any account balance. It only brings us from the twenty-second to the eighteenth European place for the remuneration of nurses. But the staff continues to leave, not wanting to persist in living this endless day. As early as March, a major recruitment and training plan would have been required to add staff to hospitals, accompanied by a major physical investment plan in resuscitation beds and beds in general. There were, as a matter of urgency, strong actions to be taken to anticipate, to begin to change course. These are 3400 beds that were closed in 2019 and 4200 in 2018, 100,000 in 20 years, while you generously announce 4000 creations in 2021, of which we don't know much. So it's a trompe l'oeil budget; You add a few keys to it with amendments, because you know that's not enough. It contains some positive measures, such as extending paternity or parental leave and reducing the role of T2A. However, the problem is that the Government continues not to learn from the test and, too often, to be content with the display. The exceptional costs of funding tests and care to combat covid-19 were included in the budget, as well as the inadequate and unequal measures of the Ségur de la santé. Some time ago, we would have taken this sprain to your doctrine for science fiction, but you remain in the B series. Once these funding lines were set aside, the budget looks strangely like the previous one: the rest of the funding continues to be compressed, with 4 billion efforts being requested, including 800 million in the hospital. You announce the cancellation of a third of the hospital's debt, which sinks its resources; However, at the same time, you make it conditional on, I quote, "commitments to remediate the financial situation." CREFs – contracts for returning to financial balance – and other COPERMOs – interdepartmental committees for the performance and modernisation of the supply of hospital care – continue to run; It's completely insane. Looking further, this is quite logical, since you want to keep the draining of social security resources on course, which has been burdened for the last few months with unwarranted co-payments and the weakening of the very principle of contribution. You are trying to solve the problem of the hospital next to the hospital, instead of announcing a new era, with the opening of new services, beds, posts – not in CDD – and a better articulation with the city and the entire health system. In this draft budget, we also find the implementation of the supposedly historic decision to create a fifth branch, dedicated to autonomy. Again, all the boxes are checked: we are not at the expectations meeting, we are content with a set of communicating vases, we struggle to define the perimeter, we are in marketing, we do not solve the situation of EHPADs, etc. After doing the same for pension reform – which lucidity should lead to abandon rather than stubbornness – we are told that this is the great social reform of the quinquennium. All this, you will agree, is unreassuring. In essence, in drawing out the lines of perspective, it is realized that social security becomes an instrument of public relief and that it is used as a variable for cyclical adjustment of economic policies. At a time when we are celebrating our 75th birthday, how can we not question these orientations, which draw a society that is less protective and less supportive, where patients, though entitled, are increasingly seen as potential customers for the market? The period has shown us how much health must be at the top of the agenda and how much high-level social protection is needed to cope with hazards. No one needs to deface this draft budget too long to measure that it is turning away from those aspirations that have become obvious. If we fail to make the necessary choices, we use our public freedoms as a lever of public health, and equality is undermined. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We need a budget that allows us to take more care, defends a renewed social ambition and gives meaning to public intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u202	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u203	"With exceptional courage, they face. They save lives. They do everything in their power. We will also be there at the rendezvous of what we owe." In Mulhouse, on 25 March, the President of the Republic paid tribute to first-line caregivers to protect the French from covid-19. The Social Security Financing Bill gives us the opportunity to turn this promise into reality. The essential recognition of the nation towards caregivers is reflected in the first instance, in the PLFSS, in historical salary adjustments, enshrined in the agreements signed last July by the Government and a majority of trade union organizations. These valuations, which will be taken into account in the calculation of pension rights, are of a completely new scale: 183 euros net per month for the public and private non-profit sectors. This basic measure is accompanied by revalorisations by business lines, revalorisations for students and investment measures to strengthen the attractiveness of the public hospital for doctors. The draft law on the financing of social security is also extraordinary in view of the enormous sums invested: nearly 19 billion will be deployed to give health and medical-social institutions the financial margins necessary for investment, especially in everyday life, and to improve working conditions. More specifically, 13 billion is being spent on refinancing one third of the public hospital service's debt, in order to give them the means to invest quickly, to clean up their financial situation and to transform the provision of care to improve the response to the needs of the population. The €6 billion additional investment plan included in the recovery plan is dedicated to city-hospital investments and priority hospital projects. The governance of these massive investments will be based largely on the regional level, with the participation of the territories and elected representatives in decision-making. We are continuing in the PLFSS the reform of hospital pricing, the famous T2A. On the one hand, we are reforming the model of financing emergency structures: the creation of the emergency patient package will limit the rest to the burden, sometimes very high for patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u205	On the other hand, we allow the experimentation of a mixed model of funding of hospital medical activities, the very ones that suffer from activity funding. This funding bill is also that of continuing organizational innovations. First of all, the deployment of birth homes responds to a growing demand from women who wish to give birth in a more natural way. These structures offer a comprehensive care of their accompaniment, with a safe delivery, thanks to the cooperation with the hospital maternity wards. Other organisational innovations include the further development of telemedicine, with the full management of actions for all insured persons for another two years, and the development of hospital hotels, which offer temporary, unmedical accommodation to patients. The La République en marche group has defended in committee important advances in the health insurance part, in particular the strengthening of the transparency of the medicine sector and the full-paying third party for all acts of voluntary termination of pregnancy. It will continue in session, with new amendments on the need for software interoperability, experiments on public health and non-use of rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The budget response, through an exceptional PLFSS, requires us to be ambitious and to make real progress in the transformation and improvement of our health system. Without credits, there is the health crisis: the national goal of health insurance spending – ONDAM – increases by 6% in 2021, which is undeniably historic. Together, we must live up to the challenge and transform the incredible efforts required by this crisis into opportunities. As the President of the Republic said on 25 March, let's go to the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u206	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-20-O1029.u207	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. The meeting is adjourned.
