ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u2	Mr Stéphane Travert has the floor to put his question, No 868, concerning the departmental branches of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u3	I wish you a happy and happy 2020. Mr Secretary of State, a mission letter has been sent to all the departmental directors of public finance, in order to draft a specification with the aim of developing a new network. While we welcome the desire to better serve our fellow citizens and your ambition to respond to the requests of the President of the Republic to resettle proximity in rural areas, I still see fears, both among some elected officials and among many officials. In my department of the English Channel, we have done a colossal work, from forty-seven to only eight intercommunities. In order to respond to the historical, geographical and institutional situation of the department, we hope that the proximity receptions will be maintained. In the shadow of the three manchan poles of Cherbourg-en-Cotentin, Saint-Lô and Avranches, it is the entire western part of the Cotentin that could indeed find itself weakened by the new network, depriving taxpayers of a public service of locality, free and universal, and of a quality physical reception. In addition, the new network could rely on public service houses – MSAP –, France services houses and local and regional authorities. The local elected representatives have told me to wait for consideration, but also to want to be involved in the dialogue with the departmental directorates concerned – I can tell you that this is the case today. So, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to ensure that the presidents of intercommunalities and mayors are well involved in this process, as are the representatives of public finance agents who are now concerned about guidelines that are not clearly stated: they are experiencing moments of legitimate anguish, especially in the centres of Valognes and Coutances. I know that you share with me the strong expectation that our citizens will benefit from a public service closer to them, but also more effective. The Government wished to ensure better accessibility of public services to the population, particularly in the territories where, for many years, the sense of abandonment of the State had developed. It is also essential to pay particular attention to users who are unfamiliar or distant from digital tools, without abandoning the necessary modernization of our public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u5	Mr President, allow me to present to you and to all Members my best wishes for the year 2020. Minister Stéphane Travert asks us about the reform of the network of the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP. Dense, it has more than 3600 points of contact and has undergone many transformations over the last fifteen years. In fact, year after year, the plans for the restructuring of services led, year after year, to the closure of a hundred perceptions each year. Together with Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, we launched the reform of the network with three main objectives. First of all, significantly increase the number of reception points of proximity, in close association with prefects and elected officials, and in connection with the evolution of the presence of public services in the territory – in particular the labelling of France services houses. Secondly, to respond more effectively to the needs of local elected representatives: for this purpose, we create 1200 positions of councillors to local decision-makers – CDL – who will be spread over the territory in order to meet the expectations of mayors and presidents of intercommunals in terms of public finance management board. Finally, we want more extensive work teams, especially in the field of education – sometimes called back office – in order to be more effective. At the same time, we want to rebalance the objectives by allocating the workforce in rural and peri-urban areas rather than concentrating them in metropolitan areas as has been the case so far. In particular in the Department of the English Channel, in 2019, DGFIP was present in 23 communes with eighteen own settlements, five settlements in MSAPs and three mixed settlements involving DGFIP and MSAP. In order to take into account the specific geography of the department – particularly in the west of the Cotentin, which you mentioned – we proposed, at the beginning of the consultation, that the DGFIP be present in thirty-one communes, eight more than on January 1, 2019. We also propose, in response to the concerns expressed by the elected representatives, the additional creation of two CDLs in Mortain-Bocage and in the West-Cotentin, and the maintenance of perennial antennas, in Mortain-Bocage or in Coutances, in order to preserve jobs in public finances. All this is part of the modification of the map proposed by the departmental director after working with the elected representatives. To take account of the specific nature of the management of the departmental council, we propose the maintenance of a departmental payroll in its own right, independent of the accounting management department of Saint-Lô. Other applications are still under consideration, which could further develop the project: we are open to discussion. Several departments have signed partnership agreements with DGFIP, the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, departmental councils and mayors' associations. In our view, these multi-year agreements have one main virtue: they allow us to fix in time the map on which we will agree. This will provide agents, elected representatives and trade union organisations with the stability and legibility that have so far been lacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u6	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 861, on the closure of public treasury and financial centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u7	I wish all of you all my best. In a letter sent last June, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts indicated that he wanted to strengthen the presence of public services in the territories and modernise public action. To do this, with regard to the DGFIP, the minister announced – which is not obvious! – the continuation of the closure of community services, with however a change, whether or not everyone will judge of importance: whereas developments were previously decided without overall territorial visibility and without the elected representatives and the population being informed, a consultation with local elected representatives would now be conducted. While everything seems already decided, the beautiful business! Indeed, we are told that by 2022 989 cash and public finance centres will be abolished. According to the documents that have arrived at us, in my department of Hauts-de-Seine, it is planned to close all nineteen treasuryes, eight personal tax services out of sixteen – half – and six of the fifteen corporate tax services. In my constituency, the municipal treasury of Colombes, a city with more than 90,000 inhabitants, is forced to disappear to become an accounting management service located in Gennevilliers, which would bring together the municipal treasury of Asnières-sur-Seine, Clichy, Villeneuve-la-Garenne, Colombes and Gennevilliers. Already at the beginning of the year, and even as the minister argues that public services must be made more accessible to the population – especially in the territories where the sense of abandonment of the state is growing, whether rural territories or popular suburban cities – Villeneuve-la-Garenne's recovery activity has been transferred to Gennevilliers. In Villeneuve-la-Garenne, all public services disappear one by one over the years. The population is therefore asked again to move to the neighbouring city to obtain the same service as before: it adds difficulties to the users of this popular city, but also overloads the reception capacities of Gennevilliers, already regularly saturated – I can attest to the continuous line that the premises of the town hall of Gennevilliers receive every day. This new plan therefore constitutes a serious breach of a proximity network, to the detriment of the public service rendered to the user; Of course, it is in the context of an attack on the public service. Together with the local elected representatives, we denounce this new dismantling of the public service, especially that of taxes, while new practices are being put in place – levying at source, dematerialisation – which require reassurance or accompanying users. In popular territories, dematerialization is not obvious to everyone. In addition, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to maintain a DGFIP establishment in Gennevilliers and to create a second accounting management service comprising the municipalities of Villeneuve-la-Garenne, Clichy and Gennevilliers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u9	As I have just told Mr Travert, we have started work on reforming and reorganising the public finance network. As you pointed out, its 3600 points of contact have been the subject of constant restructuring every year, with no visibility for elected officials or public officials. Sometimes, commitments – for example restructuring – have even been requested from municipal or inter-municipal teams, followed by closures two or three years after the start of the work. We wish to put an end to this method in favour of a multi-year vision – which is a source of greater stability. This is the objective set by the departmental directors of public finances and the object of the multi-annual agreements that we wish to sign, department by department, territory by territory. I recall the threefold objective of the project. The first is to increase the number of community reception points, as you mentioned, through permanences and partnerships with the MSAPs and communities; These permanences will have to be well calibrated – if you pass the phrase – and, thanks to the multi-annual nature of the conventions, they should also be anchored in time. The second objective is to guarantee advice to local elected officials who all need it – even if it is even more prevalent in rural areas or small communities: it will be the role of the 1200 CDLs that will be spread throughout the territory. Finally, the aim is to bring together a number of training services to form more efficient working groups and to combat, in particular, the isolation of certain agents. In Hauts-de-Seine, the draft map of the new proximity network was presented on June 6, 2019. Since then, consultations and studies have improved it, while respecting the priorities I have just outlined. Among the notable improvements that should be noted in the Hauts-de-Seine is the decrease in the share of mobility agents: the first card project led to the mobility of almost 45% of staff in the department; However, the revision of certain parameters has reduced this rate to 29%. On this subject, which concerns the maintenance of the working and living conditions of public officials, I would like to point out that the work is continuing. We wanted to take some time before signing the agreement and, in the meantime, in the weeks and months ahead, we will continue to improve the map and, sector by sector, at the territorial level and not just the department, we will decide how best to enrich the offer of services. We are convinced that partnership with elected officials and discussion with public officials and their representative organisations can enable us to reach balanced agreements and finally have a clear vision of the presence of public finance services and the provision of services in the territories, not only for the coming year but at the level of a municipal mandate, since we propose agreements of five or six years. I am convinced that, in a department like yours, with its social characteristics and differences from one territory to another, but also with its greater mobility capabilities than in rural areas, we will be able to provide an answer – which we will bring with all the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u10	Mr Michel Herbillon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 876 concerning the postal presence in the Val-de-Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best. I would like to ask the Government about the deterioration of the public mail service and the postal presence in the municipalities of Val-de-Marne. As you know, Secretary of State, the French are particularly committed to the presence of a public postal service that is fully operational and effective. In recent months, however, we have seen serious shortcomings in the distribution of mail in the Val-de-Marne department, particularly in the communes of my constituency – Charenton-le-Pont, Joinville-le-Pont, Maisons-Alfort and Saint-Maurice. Very many residents receive their mail several days or weeks late. Whole neighbourhoods are sometimes no longer served, which in many cases poses significant difficulties for both individuals and businesses. And this situation persists. In parallel to these problems of distribution, La Poste implemented in Val-de-Marne, as part of the contract for the territorial postal presence signed in January 2017 by the socialist government, a plan to close the post offices against the opinion of the elected officials, the inhabitants and the employees. It was eleven offices that were closed in the department, i.e. 10% of the total – two in my constituency, in Charenton and in Saint-Maurice. In addition to these closures, there are reductions in schedules and services that penalize residents and economic actors. The consequence of this strategy is, alas, simple and disastrous: it is, once again, the decline in the presence of public services in our communes. I would therefore like to know, Mr Secretary of State, what steps you are planning to take, on the one hand to ensure the distribution of mail within normal time limits, and, on the other hand, to maintain an effective public postal service in Val-de-Marne, particularly in the communes of my constituency. I would also like to know the provisions of the territorial postal presence contract 2020-2022 for Val-de-Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u12	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u13	I would like to remind the honourable Member that the laws of 2 July 1990 and 9 February 2010 entrust La Poste with four public service tasks, including universal postal service and the contribution to spatial planning. We carry out these tasks in the framework of corporate contracts and they are updated every year. I recall that these missions also aim to ensure that at least 90 per cent of the population is less than five kilometres away or less than twenty minutes by car from a postal service point. Nevertheless, like any company, La Poste must modernize itself to meet new challenges and needs. In particular, it must adapt to the reduction in the volume of mail to be processed, which has in fact fallen by 43% in ten years, or 7% per year, and to the continuing decrease in the number of post office visits, which has also decreased by 7% per year for several years. Faced with this historical development, La Poste reorganizes its mail distribution network, while developing new activities that you know: personal services, accompaniment of the old age, urban logistics or e-commerce. I would also like to point out that the closure of a post office is now a very supervised procedure. It cannot be decided, in most cases, without the formal agreement of the mayor of the municipality concerned and must have been the subject of prior consultation on the basis of a shared diagnosis. In the Val-de-Marne department, La Poste had 109 contact points at the end of 2018. If, as you recalled, in 2018 it closed four low-level post offices, it also created two local postal agencies and seven post offices for traders; This represents five points of access to additional postal services compared to the previous year. With regard to the distribution of mail, the new organisations needed for this transformation must take advantage of technological advances. However, in the Val-de-Marne as in the other territories, the establishment of these new organisations requires a time to adapt for the agents. Despite the training plans and the support of staff to ensure the continuity of the public service, they were able to cause difficulties in the distribution of mail in the early stages, albeit regrettable but, I hope, temporary. When asked about the deficiencies reported in the Val-de-Marne, La Poste indicates that, in conjunction with the establishment of these new organizations, it is aware of additional difficulties in recruiting and retaining factors, to which it is endeavouring to respond. In this context, the company has taken decisions to deal with the shortage of recruitment, relying in particular on its local partners. To this end, exchanges are organized with the elected representatives and the prefecture. In conclusion, I can assure you not only that the State remains very attentive to the continuity of universal postal service and, more generally, to the successful fulfilment, by La Poste, of the public service tasks entrusted to it, but also that, under the next contract for the territorial postal presence 2020-2022, which will soon be signed with the Association of Mayors of France and La Poste, the Government will ensure that the effort is strengthened in the priority areas of the city's policy and in the adjacent neighbourhoods. That will be an additional answer for your department, Mr. Member. Beyond these neighbourhoods, we will ensure that the continuity of the service and the fulfilment of the commitments made by La Poste, as regards the presence of a point of contact within five kilometres or less than twenty minutes of journey for 90% of the population, are respected in all the departments of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u14	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u15	There is no question of challenging the need for La Poste to modernize itself. On the other hand, I confirm that the closures in Val-de-Marne have not received a favourable opinion from the mayors, contrary to what you have just indicated – this is particularly the case in my constituency. On the other hand, the decline in public services – since that is what it is – is quite contrary to the commitment made by the President of the Republic at the end of the great debate to maintain local public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u16	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No 885, concerning the situation of FerroPem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u17	I wish you all the best for 2020. A state-of-the-art industry, proud of French electrometallurgy, is in great danger. FerroPem, a subsidiary of the Spanish-American group FerroGlobe, a silicon and ferrosilicium producer, located in seven sites in France. The international context, marked by turbulence, has led to a 30% decrease in the price of silicon since 2018, while demand fell by 25% over the same period. The parent company's debt has increased abyssically in recent months. To remedy these difficulties, the latter owes itself to its French subsidiary FerroPem by resorting to the accounting method, and questionable, of cash-pooling – centralisation of cash: if the flows of FerroPem go back to FerroGloble, the principle of reversibility is in no way effective. The parent company makes its French subsidiary bear its difficulties at the risk of destroying industrial employment. FerroPem is no longer able to honour its orders and pay its suppliers. Its payment delays amount to approximately 37 million euros. It is therefore a French industrial gem and its 1000 jobs that are likely to disappear. Several sites are already closed and hundreds of employees are unemployed. Together with my Savoyard and Iserois colleagues, we met with the employees, the interunion and the French management on December 12, at the headquarters of Chambéry. All of us have expressed their deep dismay and concern at this situation. If the price of silicon is expected to rise in 2020, it is still necessary for the activity to remain this year. Suppliers no longer have confidence and refuse to deliver the sites, for fear of not being paid. On 19 December, a company agreement was concluded and FerroGlobe undertook to allocate to its subsidiary EUR 17 million of CO compensation which the State agrees to settle in advance, EUR 15 million from FerroPem factoring and EUR 3 million immediately paid by FerroGlobe: finally little equity, and that is the problem. However, this is a sign of hope that should be welcomed. This will make it possible to clear the debts owed to suppliers, whose survival is threatened for many of them, but this is by no means a plan for the future. I know that the Government is aware of the situation but what can it decide in the longer term to save this industry and its 1000 jobs permanently and, above all, to ensure that the cash pooling stops so that FerroPem, which is completely viable in France, will find a future? More broadly, there is the question of the control of international groups placing a risk on French industrial florets and threatening employment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u18	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u19	I wish you all the best. I will respond to Olivier Dussopt's place, who had to join the pension bargaining meeting at the Ministry of Labour. He would have told you, Madam Member, that you did well to alert the Ministry of Economy and Finance about the situation of FerroPem, a subsidiary of the FerroGlobe Group, a company that produces silicon for various industrial processes, including the manufacture of silicone or solar panels, as well as ferrosiliciums for cast iron and steel. Faced with a 25% decline in demand and a collapse in the price of silicon, from 2200 euros per tonne in early 2018 to 1500 euros per tonne today, the company is facing obvious financial difficulties. In particular, the liability of suppliers is very high. Bercy's services are following this file very closely: a delegation of employee representatives and some parliamentarians from the constituencies concerned have been received in Bercy and very frequent exchanges are taking place with the company. Six of the 16 furnaces that the company counts in France are stationary in order to manage stocks and production. The State financially supports FerroPem since the partial activity device is activated on most sites. Bercy's services are also mobilised to pay as soon as possible in 2020 the amounts due for carbon compensation and to facilitate discussions with the company's main electricity supplier. This answers, I believe, your question. FerroPem has contributed in recent years to the economic health of the FerroGlobe Group. The Government is now calling on everyone to assume their responsibilities, in particular the group, which must help its subsidiary to overcome this troubled period. The Minister of Economy and Finance notes with interest that the group's Deputy Chairman and CEO signed on 20 December last, in the presence of representative trade union organisations, a commitment from the group to financially support FerroPem in the coming weeks. It will ensure that this is effective. The Government is fully mobilized to enable the company to regain sufficient economic stability and the more than 1000 employees of the group in France to consider the future calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u20	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u21	I know that the Government is mobilized on this issue. The FerroGlobe Group has pledged to stop using cash pooling this year: any euro won in France will have to stay in France. We want you to see to it even if it's legally a little complicated. It is also the key to finding a solution since, until now, the French subsidiary FerroPem had no financial difficulties and had sufficient reserves to compensate for the cyclical nature of its production activity. It was the return of capital to the parent company that put her in trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u22	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor to put his question, No 880, on euro-insulation devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u23	Allow me, in turn, to offer you my best wishes for 2020. In 2019, the Government made the choice to expand the power-saving boost. It provides for the introduction of heating or insulation upgrades until 31 December 2020. This "help" allows very many individuals to isolate their housing for only one euro. I would of course like to welcome this mechanism which improves the purchasing power of the French, is based on the polluter pays principle, being subsidized by the polluters, and responds to the French request for concrete action in the fight against global warming, thanks to a mechanism more than concrete. But if this device became known during 2019, it is mainly due to its drifts. It has given rise to many abuses that tarnish his image. At best, I can talk about particularly aggressive commercial marketing campaigns, with some people having been able to receive up to ten calls a day. At worst, I can tell you about a lot of scams: unscrupulous entrepreneurs take advantage of the vulnerability of some people and the lack of knowledge of the technical details of the device. In the fall, you took stock of the problem and presented an action plan to strengthen the fight against fraud, improve consumer information and restore confidence in energy renewal. So can you provide us with an overview of the actions taken by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – in this regard, during 2019 and since your autumn announcements? Were any developments envisaged by the Government with regard to the fight against undue stalling? The Blockel platform has limited efficiency and there are too many reporting mechanisms. What about data sharing and reporting between different stakeholders? Finally, additional measures had been announced for the first quarter of 2020. Can you give us any information about these announcements?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u25	I am also responding here in the place of the Minister of Economy and Finance. I would like to emphasize that the Government pays particular attention to the economic protection of consumers in the area of energy renewal, particularly with regard to the work carried out under the one-euro insulation scheme. You did well to specify different elements. DGCCRF was asked to make a special effort in this regard. It is in this context that a company in the sector has recently been sentenced by the Lyon High Court to close to 600,000 euros in fine and its manager to 18 months in prison suspended. For the year 2020, an enhanced and targeted control programme is planned for almost 900 operator visits. I can assure you that the appropriate follow-up will be given to the anomalies and deficiencies identified. As you said, an action plan was presented, notably by Emmanuelle Wargon and Julien Denormandie, on November 12. It includes, among other things, a communication campaign aimed at the general public, in order to provide it with the advice of vigilance and the reflexes to adopt in the event of an energy renovation project. Moreover, in line with the spirit of the Energy and Climate Act, the State services, including the tax, customs, DGCCRF and PNCEE services – the national centre for energy saving certificates, which is under the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition – have strengthened the exchange of information to increase the responsiveness and effectiveness of the fight against fraud. They may also communicate to the bodies issuing a certification, qualification or label the information collected during their checks and which may constitute manifest non-conformities with the certification rules. Companies with unfair or fraudulent practices will therefore be able to be removed from the RGE label – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – more quickly. On the particular subject of telephone stalling, Christophe Naegelen's bill to regulate telephone stalling and to combat fraudulent calls will be considered in second – and last – reading in January 2020 with a view to final adoption. The Government supports several provisions of this text and has proposed improvements on certain points, strengthening the obligations of start-up companies and providing for more dissuasive sanctions – up to €375,000 fine. The question of a sectoral ban in the particular case of thermal renovation is also under consideration. Finally, Agnès Pannier-Runacher mandated the National Consumer Council to organize a reflection and consultation with representatives of consumer associations and professional federations on activities related to energy renewal. A working group will meet in January. I can therefore assure you, honourable Member, that the Ministry of Economy and Finance is fully involved and is fighting effectively and decisively against fraud in the field of energy renewal. It is essential to protect consumers, as well as the many honest and competent artisans in the sector, and to combat greenhouse gas emissions effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u26	Mr Antoine Herth, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 887 on the difficulties of forest communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u27	[[Smile]] In my turn, Mr. President, I wish you all the best for the new year. To you too, Minister of Agriculture and Food, all my wishes for health! Above all, we want our citizens to have a good appetite to consume the right French products. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the growing difficulties in the forestry sector. At the level of the Grand-Est region, the finding is unanimous and takes on the dual aspect of a health crisis and an economic crisis. From a health point of view, spruce beetles and ash chalarosis, for the communes concerned, ravage the forests, leaving no alternative but to cut down the affected trees as quickly as possible. If the communes carry out plantations of new species both well and badly, the latter remain fragile in the face of climatic hazards and the pressure of wildlife. They therefore require special protective measures, such as the installation of fences and the use of repellents. In any case, they will take years to grow and replace the fallen trees. From an economic point of view, scoly wood sells badly – a logical consequence of market congestion. As a result, the municipalities are obliged to review the forecast of the cuts and works. They can no longer invest in their forests. In the most affected communes, the balance of communal finances is threatened. In the face of this absolute emergency situation, the municipalities are now waiting not only for action but even more for concrete action. They need assistance in replanting, protecting and evacuating scolyted wood, supporting the lines. The National Forestry Board – NFB – has a new Director General, whom we have heard. Minister, do you intend to give him direction on this issue of ash ash ash and ash chalarose? Another route would be to revise the specifications of protected forests, as the choice of species is relatively limited by these documents. Perhaps we should reopen the field of possibilities for replanting. In short, Minister, how do you intend to meet these expectations and prove to the municipalities that the state is at their side?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u28	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u29	Dear Antoine Herth, you have asked an important question, which I have already had the opportunity to answer several times in this House. This subject affects the whole of our country, especially all the elected representatives of rural territories who love their forests, like all the French. You have referred to the specific situation of forests in your large region, but it joins the difficulties faced by all the forest communes concerned by the colyte woods. In the two regions Burgundy-Franche-Comté and Grand-Est, the volumes of crusted Scolyte spruce represent, from summer 2018 to October 2019, at least 3.5 million cubic metres. I know this figure is a matter of debate, but I am quoting the data from the department. It's not nothing! The cumulation of areas affected by requests for emergency cuts from private owners to CNPF – the National Forest Ownership Centre – was close to 7,500 hectares in October 2019. That is to say, if your question is relevant. These figures show that we are facing a major problem, especially as the situation has continued to evolve since the fall – it is now estimated that more than 11,000 hectares are affected. As far as other species, including hardwoods, are concerned, we only have an overview of the impact of the drought, which needs to be confirmed. We are facing a double crisis: in addition to the crisis caused by the scolyte, we are facing a crisis linked to global warming and the great difficulties facing the French forest. To answer your question in concrete terms, the Government has already made a great deal of progress. He worked with the entire sector, notably at the last meeting of the CSFB, the Higher Council for Forestry and Timber. I myself have measured the concerns of the sector, from upstream to downstream, of the forest owners, private or public, and of the forest communes that you have mentioned. On October 8, I announced an action plan for all forests, whether managed by the NFB or privately owned, and for forest communities. The plan has two components. In the short term, it provides for aid for the exploitation and marketing of timber colonized by Scolytes. This intervention device is important and also joins one of your requests. It will encourage homeowners, especially those in your area, to be part of an overall plan. This exceptional aid will amount to €6 million. The decree establishing it and the decree specifying the conditions for its application were published in the Official Journal of 22 December. We have to get out of the scoly wood! In the coming weeks, we will take stock of the situation. In the medium term, above all, this plan provides for aid for the reconstruction of the settlements – this is really important – which will amount to EUR 10 million. The forestry communes are eligible for these two components: they will therefore be able to intervene. As I said, we are facing a twofold problem: alongside the economic problem of the scolytes, we must face the consequences of global warming. There is a need for a global reflection on the situation of the French forest. You mentioned the new executive director of the NFB, who was recently appointed. Its goal is first of all to re-establish the NFB – in this area, there is work – by disindebting it and reorganizing it so that it is as close as possible to the territories. The NFB needs to work more with CSFB, CNPF and FNCOFOR – the Fédération nationale des communes forestières – so that together we can get out of this dramatic situation in the French forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u30	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to put her question, No 858, on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u31	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, the current functioning of the common agricultural policy, the CAP, has a perverse effect on the way in which European agriculture is financed. The CAP is responsible for reducing the number of farmers and farms. Due to a system of surface-related premiums, it has led to an industrialization of practices...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u32	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u33	...and a specialisation of farms and territories. As a result, farms are less resilient to health and climate problems and are more dependent on imports. The first pillar of the CAP concerns aid granted per hectare and therefore favours larger farms. These aids encourage the expansion of farms, and the development of these very large areas is accompanied by an increase in mechanization and a massive and excessive use of chemical inputs which are often dangerous to health. Instead of taking the green turn, the new CAP would continue on track. However, our fellow citizens expect clear answers from you, Minister, on the measures to be taken to ensure the quality of the food produced and to preserve the health of all. For their part, the actors of the agricultural world want to live in dignity of their profession. So you have the responsibility and the opportunity to replace vicious rules with virtuous rules in order to transform the current agricultural model that no longer meets citizens' expectations. In the face of the climate emergency, we must have real ambitions and reorient the CAP, in particular by supporting small farms more specifically, defending truly capped aid and rewarding truly virtuous practices instead of opportunistic greening. Mr Minister, do you commit yourself to putting in place, as the European Commission allows you, a ceiling which will put an end to the expansion of farms and thus to the disappearance of farmers? Will you propose aid for agriculture based on the quality of production so that support for farms is no longer mainly linked to their surface area?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u34	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u35	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which will allow me to recall a few specific points and some truths. You are a Member of Parliament for Ariège and you are familiar with agricultural and mountain issues. At the beginning of the year, I will remain very calm, but I regret that your question is very caricatureal on a number of topics. The CAP is not vicious, it does not seek to kill the little ones to make money for the big ones – it is perhaps what you would like, so that you can hit it, but it is not reality. When I go to rural departments like yours, farmers express their satisfaction with a CAP that unfortunately helps maintain their income levels – I say "unfortunately" because they would like to live from their work and not just from subsidies. Direct aid from the first pillar of the CAP plays a redistribution role: without it, many Ariège farmers and elsewhere would no longer be at work. I wish to correct some of your assertions. Contrary to what you say, the CAP does not lead to the industrialization of agriculture. French agriculture is a family agriculture: let's stop denigrating it! I often say that agri-bashing also comes from those who spend their time constantly criticising the current agricultural model. You are well aware, Mrs Taurine, that the average size of a farm is now fifty-two hectares and sixty cows. Excuse me for telling you that this is not industrialization, but family farming, like the one we knew at the time of our parents or grandparents. You then claimed that the first pillar aid was surface aid for large farms. I am sorry to say that decoupled payments amount to €3.6 billion a year, or 50% of the financial volume of the first pillar. Again, the facts completely contradict your assertions. The remainder of the aid under the first pillar is devoted to support for sectors in difficulty, young farmers and greening. That is to say, the decoupled aids are not only dedicated to large farms! As you know, France has introduced the redistributive payment in order to pay a premium to small farms of less than fifty-two hectares. I repeat, the statements that you present as truths are in fact wrong. That's a shame. We must stop spreading this false information that does not serve anyone – neither your cause nor the cause of agriculture. You then referred to the reform of the CAP that is being negotiated. Mrs Taurine, you know very well that France is opposed to the European Commission's proposals on the CAP. You take the Commission's figures and you argue that France would like to reduce the amount of CAP aid. This is not at all the case: France is at the forefront, it is fighting for the common agricultural policy budget for the period 2021-2027 to be maintained at the same level as before, regardless of the consequences of Brexit. On the other hand, France is one of the few countries that supports the European Commission in its commitment to greening, in its desire that the first pillar eco-schemas be as strong as possible and that they be even mandatory for the states. Indeed, the agro-ecological transition is absolutely indispensable. The will of France is clear: we want a common European agricultural policy, which is not renationalised according to the wishes of the countries of Central, Eastern or Western Europe. Tomorrow, the common agricultural policy will be resilient, transformed by agroecology, verdia and especially for small farmers and all French agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u36	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 884, concerning the hospitals in Orne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u37	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the situation of the hospitals in the Orne, in particular the intercommunal hospital centre – CHIC – Alençon-Mamers, CHICAM, and the intercommunal hospital centre of the Andaines, located in Domfront and Ferté-Macé, in my conscription. Like many rural departments, Orne is heavily affected by medical desertification. However, hospital services are essential to ensure the provision of care in the territory. The territorial hospital group, the GHT, which includes the institutions of Domfront and Ferté-Macé, risks seeing the branch of the mobile emergency service and the Domfront medical service transferred to Ferté-Macé, while these services meet the needs of a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants and there is no decrease in activity. This shift reflects the abandonment of a community service that operates within a radius of twenty to thirty kilometres, which may be detrimental to the care of patients. As for the Alençon-Mamers hospital centre, which is based on two regional health agencies – ARS – and covering a territory of 150,000 inhabitants, it requires adequate equipment and staff to carry out its public health service mission. Several investments were decided in 2013, 2014 and 2015, notably to create a mother-child centre or the resuscitation service, but despite these essential investments, this hospital's old age rate reaches 95 per cent. Investment needs related to the maintenance and security of existing buildings are very important. However, the current financial diagnosis shows a consolidated deficit of EUR 14 million. It is in this context that the external consultants of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Hospital Care, COPERMO, were instructed on 5 November to draw up a diagnosis on the operation of the Alençon Institution and to propose improvements. Beyond the question of development and investment, the question of the construction of a new establishment arises today. There are many pleas in his favour, and first of all on the material level: CHICAM is unfortunately in a state of very advanced age – the site is located in a flood zone and the conditions of patient reception and staff work do not meet the minimum standard that one is entitled to expect from a hospital. In addition, this facility is essential as it is the headquarters of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service, UAS 61. Mr. Secretary of State, does the Government commit itself in practice to maintaining the functioning of the services of CHIC des Andaines and to launching a reflection on the construction of a new establishment to replace CHIC Alençon-Mamers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u39	First of all, Mr President, Mr President, I would like to extend my best wishes to you for the new year. You are asking me about the situation of the intercommunal hospital centre of the Andaines and the intercommunal hospital centre of Alençon-Mamers, as well as, more generally, the medical desertification which affects the department of Orne, the density of general practitioners being below the national average. As you know, access to primary care is at the heart of the priorities of regional health policy, and the RSA, together with all its partners, is taking action in this department. In July 2019, the areas eligible for support for the installation and maintenance of general practitioners were extended to enhance their attractiveness and 97% of the population of Orne is now covered by this scheme. In addition, the eastern part of the department has been selected as a pilot territory for the establishment of a territorial health professional community – CPTS. The public hospital also contributes to these accessibility actions to the first recourse: unscheduled consultations of general medicine have been carried out since 2019 in the premises of the intercommunal hospital center of Alençon-Mamers. With regard to the project to consolidate part of the care activities of the inter-municipal hospital centre of the Andaines on the site of Ferté Macé, we will be attentive to the impact of any project in this direction on the equal access of our citizens to safe and quality care throughout the territory covered by the GHT, as well as to the association of the territorial committee of local elected officials of the GHT, under its competence of evaluation and control. As far as the Alençon-Mamers intermunicipal hospital is concerned, its ability to invest is limited by the high operating account deficit – you described it by the menu. In order to enable the institution to re-establish the necessary self-financing margins for its modernisation, specific support shall be given to the establishment. An external audit is under way, as you mentioned. Its conclusions, expected in the second quarter of 2020, will allow the construction of a plan for the sustainable improvement of the financial situation of CHICAM. This action plan will be monitored over five years. At the same time, and to enable the institution to operate and invest in priority areas, the SRA provides financial support to the institution on an annual basis. You have mentioned a number of mechanisms in this regard. In 2017 and 2018, this support amounted to €2.8 million in investment in the renovation of haemodialysis and continuous resuscitation/surveillance services, €500,000 in cash aid and €700000 in cash aid and €1.1 million in aid in 2019, including the renovation of its emergency service. Finally, the Normandy region and the institutions you mentioned will also benefit from the "Invest for the Hospital" plan. I will have the opportunity to return to this in my answer to Mr Jumel's question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u40	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to put her question, No 870, concerning the clinic in Cosne-sur-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u41	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes to you, especially for good health, given the nature of my question. I would like to share with you the situation of the clinic in Cosne-Cours-sur-Loire. Its special montage is a legacy, today handicaping, conceived ten years ago by the regional hospital agency – ARH – and by the elected officials, and which consisted of integrating the hospital into the walls taken over by Kapa Santé, which made this actor, several times bankrupt, the pillar of the future health centre. On November 13, the SRA suspended surgical activity. The liquidation of the clinic was declared on 18 December. The walls were seized by the courts as a conservatory and the operation of the emergency and medical services of the public hospital is experiencing difficulties. Today, in a living area of 70000 inhabitants, where a nuclear power plant is located, there is no more surgery or emergency surgery and the reception at the emergency department is in difficulty. In the north of the Nièvre department, for a night emergency, you have to count on luck... Let's imagine: one hour thirty-four in the morning, in Neuvy-sur-Loire, a commune of 1,400 inhabitants, well served, near the A77, facing an emergency, a panicked family consists of 15 or 18. Fifteen to twenty minutes later, the UAS or volunteer firefighters from the area arrive. A diagnosis is made quickly, but emergency surgery is required. The medical helicopter, which the Nièvre has just been equipped with – I thank the ministry once again – is not mobilizable since it does not operate at night. The closest operating blocks are those of Montargis and Nevers, fifty minutes away, the person concerned will have to wait an hour and a half to receive the necessary care – if he is still alive... This clinic, these operating blocks that close aggravate the malaise of our territories. This is the observation of a two-speed medicine: city medicine and field medicine. How do you understand that in what's left of this clinic radio readings are done on smartphones? How do you understand that to pass an emergency scanner you have to drive almost an hour since you have to go to Nevers? How can we understand that in a territory that is underfunded but has health professionals, we have allowed this clinic to be liquidated without providing for an immediate recovery solution at the risk of their departure? How can we understand the sad rate of premature mortality in Nièvre – 13.7% compared to an average of 8.6 in the rest of the country? How can we understand that this is happening in a territory of the sixth world economy? At my request, the SRA has agreed that an audit, which has just begun, will define the business resumption scenarios. Its conclusions are expected to reach us at the end of January, but the situation is serious and we know the difficulties of our territory. Mr Secretary of State, can you assure us that if no private contractor shows up for this clinic in the coming weeks, the public service, through the territory hospital group, will take over and allow the inhabitants of this basin of life to benefit from the care to which they are entitled?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u42	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u43	I also wish you all the best, Madam Member, especially in the fights that bring us together. Your question is important and reflects your interest in the issue of access to care in your territory. As you said in 2017, following two inspections at the Nohain clinic, blood and maternity clearances were suspended and withdrawn for safety reasons on December 26, 2017. After further inspections, on November 13, 2019, the RSA had to suspend the authorization for surgery and sterilization of the clinic's indoor pharmacy for a period of six months pending compliance with the quality and safety requirements. Following its follow-up visit, the High Health Authority also issued a non-certification decision in December 2019 with a reservation on quality and risk management. The Kapa group requested the judicial liquidation of the clinic on 15 November 2019 and the commercial court handed down the judicial reorganization on 18 November. On 20 November, the Justice of Liberties and Detention, referred to the Prosecutor of the Republic of Nevers, ordered the seizure of property belonging to civil society in the context of the preliminary investigation of the charge of abuse of social property against Kapa Santé, opened following the report made by the Court of Auditors. On 18 December 2019, the commercial court ended the observation period and decided the judicial liquidation of the simplified share company – SAS – clinic in Cosne-sur-Loire. Until the suspension, the clinic ensured, in connection with the emergency structure of the hospital in Cosne and under a public service contract, the care of patients requiring emergency surgery. On the day of the activity suspension, the clinic decided to stop all of its activity, including the support imaging of the emergency reception service. The ARS immediately proposed the requisition of the employees in order to be able to maintain the medical imaging essential for the operation of the hospital's emergencies. It also supported the commissioning by the Nièvre territory hospital group of an audit by a specialized firm for an opportunity study on whether or not to maintain a surgical activity in the Cosnois sector. This order has three axes: a study of the recruitment potential with regard to the patient and the needs of the population; Second, a study of the conditions necessary for the resumption of an operating unit, whether it be the operation, organisation or human resources necessary for the operation, the whole to be able to lift the injunctions which led to the suspension of the surgery activity; Finally, the presentation of a project strategy and a financial sustainability strategy. The selected firm is expected to intervene on site this week and the results are expected by the end of January. The possibility of a resumption of surgery activity by an operator is therefore open, bearing in mind that the real estate situation of the clinic remains one of the main difficulties to be overcome. In the meantime, the Nièvre territory hospital group is mobilizing to seek solutions, on vacant posts, for paramedics, nurses, health workers and interested hospital service staff of the clinic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u44	Mr. Pierre Vatin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 874, concerning the practice of practitioners with a foreign diploma.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u45	It's my turn to wish you all a very good year, good health and a lot of good things! Secretary of State, this question follows my written question of December 4, 2018, which has not yet been answered. A number of medical practitioners with a diploma obtained outside the European Union, called PADHEUs, practitioners with a diploma outside the European Union, are struggling to gain access to the very complex common law procedure aimed at obtaining authorisation for full exercise in the national territory. However, despite the abolition of the numerus clausus, some French territories suffer from a lack of doctors, since this abolition has no short-term effect. Commonly called "medical desert", this phenomenon affects rural, semi-rural and even urban territories, now, and concerns much more than general medicine alone. In my constituency of Compiègne and Crépy-en-Valois, in Oise, a Russian citizen licensed to work in France, encounters difficulties in obtaining recognition of her diploma as a surgeon-dentist, issued by the Russian Federation. While she wishes to practice in France, she is unable to register for the tests of checking knowledge solely because the specialty of dental surgery is not included in the annual order opening the tests. It seems to me that a greater openness of the procedure for obtaining authorisation to exercise to the PADHUE would help to remedy in part the medical deserts while maintaining the requirement of quality of care specific to our country. Is it possible to tell me whether these foreign practitioners will be able to register for these tests, whatever their specialty?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u46	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u47	In turn, I wish you all the best for the new year, honourable Member, and thank you for your question, which reflects the situation in several territories facing a shortage of doctors. As you recalled, the law of 24 July 2019 on the organisation and transformation of the health system substantially changes the conditions under which practitioners with a diploma outside the European Union, PADHUE, are allowed to practise in France. For example, the identification of places open each year for the list A specialty competition will be linked to RHAs and health facilities, in order to best meet the needs of the territories and the health system. This census will not be limited to medical specialties but will also cover the needs of dental surgeons, midwives or pharmacists. In addition, the Government is mobilizing to improve the accessibility of care and the installation of health professionals in subdenses, through the public service contract (CEPS), which is paid in return for the installation in these areas. The Law on the organisation and transformation of the health system has also extended the possibility for practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union, in medicine and odontology, to sign a public service contract. We know that there is no one-size-fits-all response to improve access to care, and we must remain mobilized to consolidate the results we are beginning to observe because, you will agree, the scope of our efforts will only be measured over time. Further flexibilities and improvements have been foreseen: the duration of the probationary period has been reduced from three to two years, and it is now possible to take the tests more often. The implementing legislation on the new annual procedure, as well as the opening of the CESP to practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union, will be forwarded to the Council of State at the beginning of the year – in the coming weeks – in order to apply for the next annual competition organised in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u48	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u49	I will monitor the publication of this order and will not fail to question you again on this matter if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u50	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to put his question, No. 860, concerning the emergency plan for the hospital and the hospital centre in Dieppe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good year and good health – health is the subject of my question. The hospital crisis, accompanied by the widespread financial asphyxiation of hospitals, is not virtual. It translates into increasingly unbearable pressure for all the agents of the hospital chain – this human chain – and undermines the capacity of hospitals, especially in medium-sized cities, to meet immediate health needs and to consider investments for the future. Although the Dieppe hospital has undergone a profound modernization in recent years with a view to establishing a shared medical project to take care of the inhabitants – whose health indicators remain worrying – and although its level of activity has continued to grow, particularly as a result of the resumption of obstetric activity in the private clinic of the Aubépines, its financial situation continues to deteriorate. It weakens the response to the hospital's vital investment needs, such as the modernisation of its information system – estimated at 1.3 million euros – the renovation of emergencies, where the world's misery is treated – an investment estimated at 550,000 euros – or the replacement of the water network – estimated at 1.4 million euros in 2020. This situation also weighs on the human means of operation of the hospital. The recovery of one third of hospital debt has been announced recently, as well as a budget extension of €1.5 billion over three years, including €300 million for 2020. We consider that the account is not there and we question how you will decline, at the level of our health facility and territory, the concrete financial support that the RSA will deploy to ensure that these investments are made. Can you also assure us that the accompaniment intended to desend the hospital will not be conditioned by plans to return to untenable equilibrium? How will the re-basing plan on psychiatry, which I have obtained from the Prime Minister because of the under-accompaniment of our territory in this specialty, be continued? Finally, medical demography is experiencing a strong tension, which affects 50% of Normandy's territory. It is therefore necessary for the SRA to financially support the efforts made in Dieppe to open a day-to-day medical care facility. That, Mr Secretary of State, is a few concrete questions which, I hope, will give rise to just as concrete answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u52	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u53	I would also like to express my good wishes for a happy new year and good health to you, honourable Member. As you know – because you are heavily invested in this case – the hospital centre and the territory of health democracy in Dieppe have been receiving close support for several years – especially in 2019, for the reasons you have exposed, when the centre received aid of 480000 euros to modernise its mother-child centre, as well as 993000 euros to finance major operations. In order to support the transformation of the public hospital as part of the "My Health 2022" plan, and to facilitate its daily operation, the Government's "Invest for the Hospital" plan, presented on 20 November, allocates new resources to health facilities for the next three years. You mentioned some of them: 1.5 billion euros will contribute to the current operation of the public hospital, the debt will be reduced by 10 billion euros and 450 million euros will be earmarked for current investment. In an immediate and concrete way, last week the Normandy region received a first exceptional allocation of €7.514 million for the revival of current investment. The regional intervention fund – FIR – will complement this allocation to the tune of €4 million. These exceptional funds will soon be allocated to health facilities in the region, including the Dieppe Hospital Centre and the Caux-Maritime Hospital Group. By 2020, the Dieppe hospital will also benefit from the minimum guaranteed increase of 0.2% in hospital fees. In addition, we have decided to make a partial recovery of hospital debt to encourage the continuation of structural investments. The SRA will be attentive to the issues of each of the hospitals, including the Dieppe Hospital, so that the regional variation of this major measure is as effective as possible. Dieppe's health democracy territory was also accompanied in 2019 to promote access to first-recourse care. On the occasion of the revision of the zoning of doctors, arrested on 4 July 2019, the urban area of Dieppe was identified, in its entirety, as an area eligible for regional aid for the installation of general practitioners. A position of coordinator has been created and funded under the local health contract of the Dieppoise region; it has been effective since yesterday, January 6, 2020. Its mission is, in particular, to accompany the project to extend the opening hours of the medical ward, in connection with the emergency department of the Dieppe hospital. Finally, in view of the deterioration of its budgetary result, the Dieppe hospital centre will have to, in 2020, in conjunction with the ARS and in a sustainable way, identify the conditions enabling it to preserve its capacity to modernise for the benefit of patients and hospital teams. I have no doubt that we are joining in on this need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u54	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to put his question, No. 886, concerning the hospital in Remiremont.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good year and good health. I also wish this good health to all hospital staff whose working conditions are deteriorating – this will be, among other things, the subject of my question. For the last two and a half years, I have been speaking regularly in this House about the situation at the Remiremont hospital. In order to better understand the concerns and situation of the health, medical and paramedical professionals at this hospital, I spent some 40 hours with them last summer. I then met with the representatives of the regional and territorial branches of the SRA and explained to them, on a service-by-service basis, the priorities of the establishment and the solutions that could be advocated. Six months later, however, no progress can be made. Simple solutions could, however, be applied, particularly in the area of internal communication, such as regular meetings to keep staff informed of developments. The day before yesterday, a nurse explained to me how the relationship with her hierarchy was deteriorating. The values of solidarity, sharing and communication, once perennial, have now disappeared. Other simple measures are needed for equipment and equipment, such as the replacement of emergency stretchers, which date back to 2001. These twenty-year-old stretchers are hard to use by staff and uncomfortable for patients. Rather than applying concrete measures, we are witnessing a series of audit missions costing "a crazy money", to use a phrase often repeated, which does not lead to any solution. The lack of results is, I insist, patent. Mr Secretary of State, does your administration intend to trust, by listening to them, the elected representatives and the people who are investing in the field? I will ask you three simple and precise questions. Will the emergency equipment – especially the stretchers – of the Remiremont hospital be renewed, as I asked the SRA six months ago? Does the SRA undertake to communicate regularly with the staff of Romarimontain and Spinalian hospitals in order to keep them informed of developments? Finally, given the geographical and tourist context of the Vosges department and the Vosges mountain, will beds be reopened at the Remiremont hospital to cope with the seasonal increase in the population?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u57	Mr President, I would like to express my best wishes for the new year and thank you for your engagement with other elected representatives. Your opinion and knowledge of the field are taken into account in our territorial health policy. You have three specific questions that I will try to answer as precisely as possible. The first relates to the emergency equipment at the Remiremont hospital, and specifically to the stretchers. Due to the age of current equipment, a medicalized vehicle was ordered for SMUR – a mobile emergency and resuscitation service – in September 2019. It should be delivered in early January 2020, in the next few days – and I am counting on you, Member, to assure you. With regard to stretchers and, more broadly, equipment requirements, the budgetary possibilities of the institution are limited: support through regional or national appropriations is therefore to be considered. The deployment of the investment plan for the hospital, which we announced last November, plans to identify an envelope for current investment: it can represent a new lead in this regard. The Greater East SRA will consider the allocation of these appropriations in line with the priorities defined by the HHT. Your second question concerns the SRA's commitment to communicate more regularly with hospital staff. As a result of reorganizations, changes in medical demography and social movements, each of the union organizations that requested an interview was received by the SRA. During these exchanges, the Agency communicated in a transparent manner and provided answers to all the questions put to it. In the margins of the hospital emergency plan, all emergency services were visited, and meetings were held with the teams. A dedicated departmental working group has been set up, allowing direct exchanges between the various structures represented. In the territory of Remiremont, specific care for the elderly was undertaken a few years ago. A gerontology network and various actors, such as the MAIA network – a method of action for the integration of care and support services in the field of autonomy – as well as home helpers, will experiment with unscheduled care for the elderly. In addition, since November 2019, an audit on the reconciliation of the staff of the two hospital centres has focused more specifically on listening to the officers and expressing their feelings in the face of future developments. The dialogue you call your vows therefore seems to be at work. Finally, your third question concerns the opening of beds to cope with the seasonal increase in the population, particularly during the winter sports period. Locally, as every year, the "voltage hospital" plan will be activated from the beginning of January 2020, with a dedicated doctor, and will result in the reopening of ten beds, after four beds have been reopened this last week. The arrival of new physicians in the spring is expected to sustain these reopenings, not for a seasonal need but for a long time, in disciplines essential to the territory's care provision such as geriatrics and multi-purpose medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u58	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to put his question, No. 875, on Lyme disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u59	Lyme disease is progressing in our country: if, according to one report, nearly 50,000 people were affected in 2016, given the rate of disease progression, we can estimate the number of our citizens now affected to almost double. It is a disease transmitted by tick bites. All departments are concerned, especially the most rural – this is the case for my department, the Lot. The treatment of this disease by the medical profession has been very slow. Lyme disease has been surrounded by much suspicion and its definition has been the subject of lengthy, often tedious and unnecessary debates for families. It would seem that things have changed quite positively, but we still have a serious lack of results. However, it is known that early diagnosis and rapid treatment with antibiotic can permanently solve the problem. On the contrary, if the disease is not managed, if the patient's wandering is long, the consequences can be devastating. There are many examples, including young patients with significant developmental disorders. This upsets the lives of these children and their families. In many departments, because families are deprived, they are organized into associations. This is the case in the Lot, with, for example, the association "From trial to hope, my life, my fight Oceane" – but it exists in all departments. Many of these families look abroad, where they receive care of varying quality. It is not acceptable for families in a country like ours to be reduced to carrying their message by the voice of association, without always being heard by the public authorities and health authorities, and to look abroad. Arrangements have been made, including a plan for the prevention and control of the disease, with the establishment of five reference centres, but it must be noted that, for the time being, the results are not up to date or, at least, they are not up to what they should be. It would appear that the issue is being dealt with. But these families need to get out of their isolation. So what new steps are you planning to take to move from words to deeds? What additional funds will be allocated to research – the role of which is fundamental – and to the five reference centres, because the resources available to them today seem insufficient to enable them to carry out their tasks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u60	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u61	As you know, in 2016, the Ministry of Health, in close liaison with the National Public Health Agency, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and Labour, the High Authority for Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and, of course, the patient associations, a national plan for the prevention and control of Lyme disease and tick vector diseases. This plan, implemented since 2017, aims to strengthen prevention – very important –, to standardize patient management by updating recommendations and to organise consultations for patients with tick-borne diseases. As far as prevention is concerned, many concrete actions have been taken. For example, in conjunction with the National Forestry Board, more than 1500 information and prevention panels were made available at the edge of the most frequented state forests. The Directorate-General for Health has collaborated with several associations – which have been the triggers for triggering the management of the disease – including LYMpact and Relais de Lyme, in the production of a video clip dedicated to prevention; This clip is available and downloadable on the website of the Ministry of Health. Finally, the Department encourages communities, natural recreation associations and recreation centre managers to disseminate these tools widely to their administrators and members. As far as patient care is concerned, we must do everything possible to respond to their suffering and distress, to counter stigmatization and to combat medical error and misdemeanours. This disease, which I know well, can have considerable consequences for families; It can even, as you pointed out, destroy a sibling or a family if medical error lasts too long. An instruction of 26 November 2018 organises the treatment according to three levels of recourse: outpatient medicine, centres of competence spread over the territory and identified by regional health agencies, and five national reference centres. The latter are responsible for coordinating city medicine and centres of competence, identifying best practices and carrying out clinical research activities in order to advance knowledge for the benefit of patients, while developing exchanges with associations to build a true health democracy. One of the added value of this device is the standardization of patient records and diagnostic protocols; This will provide medical teams with scientific data on patient evolution and treatment response. These data were so far difficult to collect and analyze, as patients were dispersed. The setting up of this organisation of care is an indispensable prerequisite for research activities in the field of diagnosis and therapy. Health care is covered by health insurance and €1.5 million is allocated annually to fund the reference centres, thus coordinating the network and clinical research. This is a real step forward in the management of patients and in understanding the mechanisms of tick-borne diseases. Be assured, honourable Member, that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is committed to the full recognition of tick-borne diseases and the coherent and effective management of patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u62	Mr Guillaume Chiche, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 862, on the urgent medical aid service – SAMU – of the Deux-Sèvres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u63	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the working conditions of the medical regulatory assistants – ARM – within the UAS of the Deux-Sèvres. I had the opportunity to receive them at my permanent office on 19 September and 11 October following a strike movement launched several months ago. The Deux-Sèvres UAS faces serious medical demographic problems, an increasing number of calls, and some administrative features related to MRA practices. The regulatory service is struggling to effectively handle incoming calls, including emergencies. The deterioration of the service is obviously to the detriment of the patient. The direct reason for this is the exhaustion of staff, despite a professional conscience and unwavering determination. The demands are diverse: the recruitment of an additional regulatory assistant, the replacement of persons who take their annual leave, the provision of a dedicated rest room and the possibility for MRAs to attend regular training. Better working conditions would put people at the centre of concerns and restore safety in the exercise of the profession. I went to Niort Hospital in mid-December; I would like to acknowledge the commitment of the nursing staff, the supervising team and the management of the hospital, which is already working to improve working conditions. I know, Madam Secretary of State, that the Government is particularly determined to create the conditions for a tight territorial grid, responding to the ageing population and the realities of medical practices. With a view to achieving this goal collectively, can you tell me whether the Government intends to open new positions of medical regulatory assistants and what avenues have been envisaged to improve their working conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u64	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u65	I thank you, Mr President, for your question and, more broadly, for your investment in improving the working conditions of the medical regulatory assistants in the SAMU des Deux-Sèvres, who have been on strike for several months. Their demands have been taken into account: we have heard them; concrete progress has been made in improving working conditions, securing professional practice and improving care. With regard to the request for additional resources, an ambulance coordinator post has been in effect since 1 December; he is insured from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week. Supported by the ARS as part of the emergency person/emergency medical assistance road map, ambulance coordinators provide concrete reinforcements to better organize responses to transport requests outside of on-call periods, reduce deficiencies, reduce drop-off time and improve the professional practice of medical regulatory assistants. On the other hand, the allocation of the so-called risk premium has been generalized to regulatory assistants, and other proposals are being negotiated with the management of the establishment. Since November, following the inspection of the UAS 79 carried out by the services of the ARS of New Aquitaine in 2019, the management of the 115 is no longer the responsibility of the medical regulatory assistants. The 115 now has dedicated and differentiated resources from Centre 15. The same applies to the management of the nocturnal standard of the hospital centre, which has a dedicated secretariat. The training, for its part, in accordance with the Order of 19 July 2019 specifying the conditions for obtaining the new ARM diploma, the management has launched a multi-year training plan starting in 2020. As early as January, three officers will be trained for a period of ten months. As far as the equipment is concerned, the geolocation mapping updates are effective. Finally, staff reinforcement measures, an improvement in its qualification, as well as the carrying out of current investments can be supported by the institution thanks to the financial upgrading of the mission of general interest SAMU that took place in 2019. Be assured, honourable Member, of the commitment of the services of the ARS of New Aquitaine to the functioning of the UAS and the declination of the measures of the Emergency Refoundation Pact, in order to guarantee graduated, adapted and quality responses to the demand for unscheduled care of the populations in the territories, according to the particularities of each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u66	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor to put his question, No. 879, concerning private concierges in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u67	For the past three months, the hospital in La Rochelle has brought the wolf into the sheepfold. Unfortunately, this is not the only hospital to do so. This wolf is that of commodification in the public hospital. An agreement was signed between the director of the hospital and the private service company Happytal. However, behind the sale of welfare and food products is a much more lucrative and ethical business. Happytal's employees, called the sweet name "concierges", are in fact real salesmen, tasked to do intensive stalling directly in patients' rooms in order to sell individual rooms. Should it be recalled that hospitalized persons are often in a position of vulnerability due to their age or illness? Do we also have to remember that at the public hospital, we welcome patients, not clients? It should be noted that these fragile patients do not always perceive that the transfer paper to an individual room that they are encouraged to sign, with the overbilling that goes with it, comes not from the hospital, but from Happytal. In many cases, we can really talk about abuse of weakness. I'll give you an enlightening example of Happytal's practices. It happened at the hospital in Cannes. A 89-year-old lady, already installed in a single room for medical reasons, was visited by a concierge from Happytal; he asked him to sign a paper with an invoice of 900 euros. This paper was a request for a single room. This allowed the hospital to charge him the cost and Happytal to collect a juicy commission. Indeed, the single room stays free as long as it is the hospital that decides to allocate it to you, but if it is you who request it, the hospital can charge you – on average 50 euros a day, not covered by the social security. This is what I call an unbearable abuse of weakness. It must be stopped. Madam Secretary of State, I think you will share my opinion: the hospital is not a mall, and Happytal's business has nothing to do with it. My question will therefore be direct: do you intend to stop this drift which I consider dangerous?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u68	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u69	The use of commercial services in the premises of hospitals has been a common practice for a long time. In addition to the marginal financial revenues that these benefits represent, it is a matter of hospitals providing real services to the sick, their families and hospital staff, in the vicinity and with very wide time frames. All of these commercial services are contracted under temporary tenure contracts, which provide them with a qualitative, quantitative and financial framework. Concierge contracts may involve services that make service less direct: dry cleaning, hairdressing, very specific purchases... They target a very limited target of patients whose length of stay is quite long. The interest in acting for the hospital is therefore low both in terms of the service provided to the majority of patients and in the provision of supplementary income. It is not useful to take initiatives to promote such activities, you are right. On the other hand, in order to limit the risk that you have mentioned, i.e. the risk of aggressive commercial approaches that can stress or hinder patients, it would be useful to rigorously align these services in the contract specifications, as is regularly the case for other commercial services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u70	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u71	Madam Secretary of State, you are talking about regulation: that would be the least of all. I want to quote the testimony of a former employee of Happytal: the concierges are told to go "to the room, to have individual applications signed, because that's what makes Happytal earn money". The same person stated that the purpose of the room stalling was to obtain "the patient's signature at all costs". However, the mission of the hospital is to try to cure the patient at all costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u72	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to put her question, No 867, on ergonomic clothing for disabled people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u73	Getting around, washing, eating... There are a number of simple, everyday gestures that are very banal and to which we pay little attention. Yet, these anodizing gestures become very complex for people with disabilities. Dressing is thus a real test for a person with a disability and for their caregivers, whether they are volunteers or professionals. Let's take the example of a "simple" walk: when you're in a chair, how much time is wasted trying to put on your coat? Not to mention that once put, this one will not be adapted to the person sitting; the part behind his back will hinder him. Also, many prefer to give up going out. Companies are innovating in this area: I have met a young entrepreneur who develops very ingenious clothing, both ergonomic, practical and aesthetic, making it possible to dress effortlessly. These perfectly adapted technical solutions make it easier for people with disabilities and those who help them. Of course, these clothes have a significant additional cost. However, they do not fall within the scope of the reduced VAT rate provided for in Article 278-0a of the General Tax Code, and people who wish to acquire them very rarely receive aid, because those of the CDMH, the departmental houses of the disabled, are of great disparity. In 2013, a report by the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs, IGAS, on these technical aids pointed to the fragmentation of funding, the length of time taken to take care of it – which it called for to be simplified – and the limited information of users. Madam Secretary of State, I know your commitment to making life easier for people with disabilities and their caregivers. What measures can we consider in order to widely disseminate these technical aids, in particular those which make it possible to wear themselves without disproportionate efforts, and to reduce the cost of them, especially for the most deprived disabled people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u74	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u75	Thank you, Mrs Brocard, for this question, which is essential to improving the daily lives of people with disabilities. A small reminder: in the area of value added tax, France makes very wide use of the room for manoeuvre offered by European law. Directive 2006/112/EC as amended, known as the VAT Directive, provides for the possibility of applying a reduced VAT rate to medical equipment, auxiliary equipment and other equipment normally intended to relieve or treat disabilities, for the personal and exclusive use of persons with disabilities, with a view to compensating for serious disabilities. These include voice-synthesis communication devices, specific electronic cards and communication software, software for the deaf and hearing impaired, Braille reading, writing or reproduction devices for blind and visually impaired persons, and devices for all persons with disabilities intended to facilitate driving or access to vehicles, such as orthopaedic seats and hand accelerator controls. The reduced VAT rate therefore applies, as required by European law, to materials whose exclusive design and use for the purpose of relieving or treating a disability are not likely to be contested. This would not be the case with ergonomic clothing for the disabled. On the one hand, they do not fall within the scope of the reduced rate of the VAT Directive; On the other hand, they do not constitute a legally defined category, allowing a boundary to be drawn between the different VAT rates. Therefore, without ignoring the need for persons with disabilities to have suitable clothing, it is not envisaged that these clothing will be subject to the reduced rate of VAT. On the other hand, Mrs Buzyn and I have commissioned a mission on technical aids which will allow identification and classification, including perhaps in the field of ergonomic clothing, which must be covered by disability care. You mentioned the start-up Constant and Zoe, which I know very well. From mittens to trousers, to leg covers, she manufactures a range of clothing with the aim of adapting to the handicap. This business, like many others, must be encouraged. It does not produce medical equipment, but it facilitates the daily lives of many; Above all, it demonstrates the need to capitalize on the expertise of manufacturers and on the expertise developed by each person facing difficulty, physical or functional problems. All actors in society, including in the world of clothing and fashion, must be able to reinvent themselves in order to meet the needs of people with disabilities. We are working with the associations, and you know that I will be extremely vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u76	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u77	I therefore hope that we can now dream about the next lines of ready-to-wear for people with disabilities and the future models presented during fashion week parades.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u78	Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor to put her question, No. 859, on windows in the prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u79	In his 2019 report on the dematerialization of administrative procedures, the Defender of Rights writes that "if only one person were to be deprived of his rights because of the dematerialization of a public service, it would be a failure for our democracy and for the rule of law". I share this observation; I also saw it fully, because in Seine-Saint-Denis, the dematerialization of the windows in prefecture has complicated access to the rights of many people. I no longer count the people who seek my help in order to get a simple appointment. Administration is failing when it is inaccessible or dehumanized. Here, the difficulty of making an appointment with the prefecture reached such proportions as the Education Network without Frontiers estimated that the waiting period could last up to eight months. The consequences are numerous: obstacles to obtaining papers, with all the consequences that one imagines, contradictory recommendations, maintenance in a precarious administrative situation, development of a parallel market for meeting slots. The situation is also dramatic in terms of equality, since dematerialisation can benefit very well-inclusive audiences and, on the contrary, increase the social difficulties of those who already encounter them. Dematerialization does not solve the problem of waiting: it only conceals and aggravates it. The parliamentary report on the Seine-Saint-Denis submitted by François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo showed how badly this department was affected by the gradual withdrawal of the State from public services. Measures have been announced, but I would like to have an answer to this simple question: when will new means be allocated to the prefectures in order to establish the principles of equality and continuity of public service, so as not to be lacking to the citizens, in order to allow them access to their rights?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u80	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u81	Madam Member of Parliament, you would like to excuse the Minister of the Interior and his Secretary of State, who are attending the commemorations of the attack on Charlie Hebdo. With regard to the issue of licences, driving licences, registration certificates, the development of teleprocedures in the framework of the "new generation prefectures" plan makes it possible to complete a procedure seven days a week and 24 hours a day, without moving to prefecture. But the Ministry of the Interior has integrated the risk, which you stress, that the dematerialization of procedures makes it difficult for some users, especially isolated and vulnerable audiences. For this reason, 325 digital points have been set up in prefectures and sub-prefectures. The user can benefit from the assistance of a mediator who accompanies him in his online procedures. Digital spaces are also accessible in town halls, in public service houses. The telephone reception system created by the National Secure Securities Agency has been substantially strengthened, from 48 teleadvisors in early 2017 to the equivalent of 261 teleadvisors in December 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u82	On what scale?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u83	With regard to foreign titles, in order to facilitate user requests and avoid queues, the Ministry of the Interior has developed an appointment-making tool that is used, inter alia, by prefectural immigration and integration services. Exceptional peaks of attendance were able to compromise access to this module on an ad hoc basis, among other things during the posting of the appointment calendars in the prefecture. To cope with this, the access rate of prefectures' websites has been significantly increased. This appointment module is also the subject of further developments, improving reception conditions through better management of waiting times. The ministry is also working on replacing it with a new, much more efficient module. Finally, the prefectural services of immigration and integration are given special attention in order to be able to maintain, in spite of the migratory pressure, satisfactory conditions of reception and investigation of cases. Between 2016 and 2019, 369 permanent full-time equivalents were created, while the prefectures lost 1500 during the same period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u84	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u85	I regret that this answer does not take into account the particular case of the Seine-Saint-Denis. You mentioned immigrants asking for papers; I can tell you that in this respect, the situation is dramatic. There are people who, in time to get an appointment, lost the opportunity to claim the rights that would have been theirs had they had had that appointment earlier. The same applies to other subjects. I would therefore have liked a specific answer to this department, since we are in a situation of breach of equality. More generally, your answer focuses on the appointment module, i.e. improving a computer device. On the contrary, we need tailored, personalized responses, and therefore a strengthened human presence in our public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u86	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to put his question, No. 878, on the means against insecurity in Montargois.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u87	I would like to mention the growing insecurity within the Montargis police area, where I live. The situation was alarming because of the shortage of staff and the rise in crime and crime. I had already questioned the Minister of the Interior on two occasions, alas without much success, about the need to increase the number of staff, largely in deficit in all the bodies – officers, officers, security assistants. As of 1 January 2018, the total assets were 98, compared to 77 on 1 January 2019 and 74 today; or a deficit of some 20 people, including absenteeism, whether caused by an injury or an accident at work. The number of attacks, robberies of main residences, drug trafficking have exploded. A crime that has never been seen before, especially in eastern Montargois, makes headlines in the Loiret newspapers. Difficult neighbourhoods have become out-of-law neighbourhoods, raising serious concerns among the population; All this while the video-protection mesh and the presence of the municipal police are quite important and operational. Madam Secretary of State, I know that you are not here to answer me officially, which is regrettable; I wish I had questioned the Minister of the Interior. My question is to this one: what answer do you intend to give to the blatant shortage of staff, which also moved the judiciary – the public prosecutor, in particular, told us that he was very worried about the weakness of the police station in this area of 45,000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u88	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u89	Again, you would like to excuse the absence of the Minister of the Interior and his Secretary of State. The fight against drug trafficking is a major issue. That is why we launched a national anti-narcotics plan in September, which included the establishment of the Anti-narcotics Office, OFAST. This fight, we also lead him into the Loiret. The public safety districts of Orléans and Montargis have been divided and operational partnership groups have been created. They bring together, in a given sector, all the security actors and their local partners from local authorities, other state administrations and semi-public enterprises, among them the donors. As for the means, in the Loiret, the national police now have 977 officers. This number was 961 at the end of 2016. However, you are right that the public safety workforce in Montargis is less than the target population in this electoral district. Be sure, honourable Member, that the Minister of the Interior is sensitive to this situation and that all possibilities of assigning new police officers to it are being explored. At the same time, law enforcement is mobilized. In the first eleven months of 2019, the police station registered a decrease of 11% in delinquency in Montargis, which does not mean, however, that all problems are solved. You rightly raise the problem of drug trafficking. The Montargis police organize weekly operations in certain sensitive areas of Montargis and Châlette-sur-Loing. Significant seizures were made in 2019, including more than 3 kilograms of heroin. The introduction in 2018 in the Loiret of the enhanced steering mechanism for the fight against drug trafficking and the creation of an operational intelligence unit on narcotics have increased the pressure on traffickers. The judicial police seized 36 kilograms of heroin and 71 kilograms of cannabis in the department in 2019. Several major traffics were also dismantled in Montargis last year. You can be sure, honourable Member, that there will be no respite for the fight against traffickers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u90	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u91	Madam Secretary of State, in the absence of the Minister of the Interior, I would like your reply to be entered in the Official Journal. That is true, we have achieved good results in the fight against trafficking, the importance of which has continued to grow last year, not to mention crime, since more than a dozen crimes were committed in that same year in this city of which I was the mayor for almost twenty years. In fact, I communicate with the justice services and the police station almost every week. The services of the Ministry of the Interior, the prefecture and the sub-prefecture have worked together to try to address the problem of understaffing, which is major. When 20 people are missing in the field, anti-criminality brigades and permanences operate in small numbers, increasing fatigue. Trade unions are concerned about this, as are elected officials. Beyond the support of the Orléans Department of Public Security, which is close to 100 kilometres away, which poses difficulties in responding to the emergency, we must move from words to deeds to address the understaffing of about 20 people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u92	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor to put his question, No. 881, on the retirement age of gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u93	I would like to draw the Government's attention, at a time when we are discussing the future of our retirement system – which will have to be better adapted to everyone's journey – to the retirement age limit of the gendarmes. It now varies according to rank: between 56 and 59 years for officers and between 57 and 60 years for non-commissioned officers. When it is reached, the gendarmes have no choice but to leave the gendarmerie corps to be placed automatically in the reserve. They may serve as reservists on an ad hoc basis, but only for about 20 days each year. In the future pension scheme, the Government plans to introduce a surcote system to encourage citizens to work longer. Could this arrangement apply to gendarmes who wish to continue their activity beyond the age limit? An aptitude visit could be introduced to ensure age and mission compatibility. I am aware that the problem does not arise for those who carry out difficult missions, but it still concerns a large number of gendarmes. What does the Government think?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u94	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u95	The National Gendarmerie Act of 3 August 2009 defines the Gendarmerie as an armed force established to ensure the enforcement of laws. In addition to the special armed force of the gendarmerie, the military character of its personnel is affirmed by articles L. 4111-1 and L. 4145-1 of the Defence Code. Military status thus ensures guarantees to those who have chosen it in accordance with the specific obligations imposed by law and provides compensation for the constraints and demands of life in the armed forces. This is particularly the case for the conditions of return to civilian life and retirement, which explains the specific retirement provisions applicable to gendarmes. The military status is accompanied by a particular mode of human resource management – bonuses, short and long careers – imposed by the need for the permanent availability of young, resilient military personnel capable of being planned and selected to meet the needs for the renewal of increasingly technical skills, as well as by the specific constraints of functional progression, the supervision of a pyramidal military model and services "at all times and in all places". In this context, members of the gendarmerie are subject to age limits: 58 to 59 years for non-commissioned officers, 59 to 60 years for officers. With regard to the universal retirement system, the Government has committed itself to taking into account the dangerous nature of the trades in Regal and to maintaining derogations to allow for early departures, as announced by the Prime Minister on 11 December before the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Work is under way to define the precise modalities of the universal retirement system, in conjunction with trade union organizations and, as far as the military is concerned, the Higher Council of the Military Service. The Minister of the Armed Forces is responsible for carrying out this work for the military community. The Minister of the Interior, in constant contact with her with regard to the provisions relating to the gendarmerie, remains careful to define a fair and balanced framework for the gendarmes as well as for the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u96	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u97	You have recalled the framework, Madam Secretary of State, and it will always be time to propose amendments to the bill. We, too, will meet with members of the senior council of the military service and the unions. The demand is urgent. We cannot explain to the French that they must work longer while sheltering themselves behind the rigid organization of the retirement system of the military and, consequently, of the gendarmes. We will discuss this with the Minister of the Interior on the occasion of the review of the pension bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u98	Mr Alain Perea, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 863, on the mutualization of the municipal police in the event of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u99	In France, as everywhere in the world – the terrible fires in Australia testify – natural disasters, which are expected to remain exceptional, are becoming more and more frequent. In the Aude, where I am elected, we are well placed to know this because of the floods that we have suffered several times, still recently. Whenever such an event occurs, broad chains of solidarity are organized, from the ordinary citizen to the highest state summit. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of the Interior and the entire Government for the exceptional mobilization that followed the floods in Aude. Local and regional authorities, in particular non-distressed municipalities, also show great solidarity each time. However, we could be much more effective if the law allowed the municipal police services to be pooled. Indeed, we need a procedure to respond to the urgency when the one in force is so cumbersome that it becomes inappropriate. I was mayor of a commune of 500 inhabitants, regularly flooded. I don't have time to explain to you the valuable services that the municipal police of the neighbouring municipalities that were not affected could provide in support of the gendarmerie services, but I know that you know these files well and you can trust my experience. It seems necessary to amend the existing provisions as soon as possible in order to allow for the pooling of municipal police services and thus to meet the reactivity requirements of the crisis management of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u100	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u101	Mr President, you recalled the tragic events that have struck your department and welcomed the commitment of the State services. I will pay tribute, in my turn, to the investment of local elected officials in your department. Everyone showed great resilience under the authority of Alain Thirion, who was then prefect. You yourself, as a Member of Parliament, were able to stand with the people, which I was able to measure when I was Secretary of State to the Minister of Ecology. You're asking a specific question. The answer that the Minister of the Interior wanted to give you will be as much. The Code of Internal Security provides that, in the event of natural disasters, mayors of municipalities bordering or belonging to the same agglomeration may be authorized to use jointly, in the territory of one or more communes, for a specified period of time, all or part of the means and staff of their municipal police services. This right is exercised exclusively in the field of administrative police. Thus, by way of derogation from the principle of speciality, the system of pooling in the event of natural disasters is not limited to a mutualisation within the same public institution of intercommunal cooperation since it also allows a mutualisation between neighbouring communes. Furthermore, even if the law does not explicitly specify whether the municipalities concerned must necessarily be located in the same department, it could be accepted that the pooling could apply to municipalities located in different departments. Furthermore, with regard to the procedure to be followed, the Code of Internal Security provides that the joint use of the means and staff shall be authorized by order of the representative of the State in the department, who shall lay down the conditions and arrangements for such use in the light of the proposals of the mayors of the communes concerned. This order specifies, depending on the local circumstances and the needs identified, the number of staff involved, the nature of their interventions, the material resources pooled or their possible weapons. The order must also specify the duration of the pooling. In order to enable the scheme to be implemented, it is important to obtain the agreement of all the mayors concerned, both on the principle of pooling and on the conditions and modalities of the scheme. Pooling is not possible if there is no unanimous agreement of the mayors. However, in contrast to other arrangements for joint action which are of a perennial nature, the law does not require the mayors of the municipalities concerned to sign a specific agreement or to deliberate on the municipal council. This flexibility makes it possible to respond urgently to natural disasters. It therefore seems that the current system ensures flexibility in employment adapted to emergency situations, for which State services are also mobilised. However, a reflection on the developments you are proposing can be carried out in the context of the work on the White Paper on Internal Security, in particular with regard to the security continuum. Finally, in the context of the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, for which you have invested a great deal in your personal capacity, we have achieved some progress in favour of the municipal police. The rule of law allows us to carry out many actions, but it is, unfortunately, too little known, both to local elected officials and to the State departments within the various departments. We have a duty to make him better known, as I just did.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u102	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u103	Thank you, Minister, for this very precise answer, which I doubted the quality of because I know you are very committed to this area. However, we will not be able to save on a more in-depth study because we must be able to mobilize the municipal police as quickly as possible. When a flood occurs, vehicles must be able to evacuate within the following hour, which does not allow time to follow the steps of the procedure you have described, including waiting for the prefect's order to provide the means to do so. When you are the mayor of a commune of 500 inhabitants, you need the municipal police of the neighbouring communes to arrive within ten minutes, not after an order has been issued. When you have to call the firemen, you don't expect a prefect's order! I know that the situation is not the same, but there is still room for improvement. I will work with my colleagues, particularly in the White Paper.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u104	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor to put her question, No 869, on the fight against bed bugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u105	I would like to associate my question with my colleague Bruno Studer, who was the originator of the working group on the fight against bed bugs. These parasites are invading our cities. Hundreds of thousands of homes are infested, regardless of the social origin of their occupants because, let us repeat, the presence of bed bugs is not linked to a lack of hygiene and should not become a taboo subject. No one is spared, we are all concerned. Thus, in Marseilles, which I know well, several hospital services, libraries, EHPADs, schools are affected by this scourge. I am thinking above all of the hundreds of thousands of French people who are beaten at home and suffer every day. Indeed, itching caused by repeated bites can lead to serious disorders, including sleep, which causes fatigue, stress, anxiety and significantly and lastingly alters the quality of life of the victims. It is essential that this psychological suffering be finally recognized. Even if no scientific study concludes with certainty, for the time being, a possible transmission of parasites to man, our mental health is seriously affected, in a proven way, and this damage must be taken into account. It's time to move to a higher speed in our fight against this parasite. I know that you are sensitive to the suffering of our fellow citizens and that Julien Denormandie has instructed one of his advisers to work closely with the working group that the Assembly has set up on this subject, which I thank him for. But there is an urgent need for a genuine public policy to combat bed bugs. For my part, I will ask the prefect of the region to organise a consultation with all the actors concerned – regional health agencies, social donors, local authorities, researchers from the hospital-university in Marseille – in order to find solutions at the territorial level. But action must also be taken at the national level. So, Minister, could you please tell us what the Government intends to do about prevention and eradication in order to combat this scourge? Do you not think that this infestation is a real public health problem and should be treated as such?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u106	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u107	Madam Member, I welcome your investment in this important issue, which, as you have pointed out, affects all categories of housing. Naturally, our most modest fellow citizens are also the poorest in the face of this scourge, because the eradication of bed bugs is particularly costly; In order to answer your question directly, it is obvious that national solidarity must be mobilised on this subject. A few weeks ago, during the discussion of the finance bill for 2020, Julien Denormandie, who is responsible for these issues as Minister for Housing, said in the Chamber that the Government was working with a group of parliamentarians, of whom you are a member, to develop an action plan to bring together initiatives that are now scattered, to facilitate the mobilization of stakeholders and to develop an offer of benefits to meet the demand of infested people, who are struggling to find the most credible and effective stakeholder. Structured information at the national level is essential to facilitate the lives of the inhabitants facing this phenomenon. It is also necessary to react to the spread of the phenomenon in the country. Julien Denormandie will shortly present the avenues on which the Government intends to build; It is obvious that there will have to be a form of cultural struggle around this issue, which can be culturally and socially stigmatizing. Finally, I recall that the law of 26 January 2016 has facilitated the fight against species harmful to human health throughout the territory, although new health expertise is needed to combat this scourge, which is not only found in cities, but also in rural villages. Once again, Madam Member, I thank you for your interest in the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u108	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to put her question, No. 857, on city policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u109	Minister, in 2015, the date of the launch of the city contract between the State and the Paris community, in the Golden Goutte district, in the 18th arrondissement, more than a quarter of the population lived below the poverty line and 17% of young people were in school drop-out. In La Chapelle-Charles Hermite, another priority area of the 18th century, 30% of the inhabitants were under 25, 18% were unemployed and 50% were without a diploma. In 2019, the review of the city contract drawn up by the Atelier parisienne d'urbanisme is without appeal: in the Goutte-d'or as in La Chapelle-Charles Hermite, poverty and unemployment are increasing, the share of young people in difficulty of occupational integration remains particularly important, and the problems of mal-housing are endemic, to take just a few examples. In addition, the consequences of the poor reception of migrants, including unaccompanied minors, abandoned to the streets and all their dangers, as well as the inadequate health and social treatment of the crack-consumption epidemic in these neighbourhoods, must be added. In spite of numerous government inquiries over the past two years – mine and those of local associations and collectives – neither the local executive nor the national executive have responded to the situation. The security communication around the evacuations of migrant camps, which are immediately recreated for lack of lasting solutions to the question of the accommodation of these people, or the creation with great reinforcement of media coverage of so-called "reconquest republican" neighbourhoods, which are in addition to the existing "priority areas", do not address the structural causes of local problems. Moreover, while the state is expected to increase it, the city's policy budget for 2020 has been reduced by 10.5 million euros compared to 2019. And, in terms of urban policy, you and the City of Paris promote what many researchers, associations and political movements consider a dual movement of gentrification and impoverishment, which pushes popular classes out of the capital. A profound challenge to the policies in these neighbourhoods is needed. Mr Minister responsible for local authorities, are you ready to support with your majority the request to set up a committee of inquiry on the state of the city's housing policies, social accompaniment and the maintenance of public tranquillity – a commission called for by many local associations, including the SOS La Chapelle association – which I propose to table with this assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u110	[[At 11.05 a.m., Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u111	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u112	Madam Member, the initial text of your question, which was forwarded to the Government, was very succinct. So I don't have any numbers to tell you about the neighborhoods in your riding. If the text had been more complete, I would probably have been able to provide you with precise answers; As this is not the case, allow me to be spontaneous. I share in part your observation: it is hard and must call us to collective humility, as the situation has deteriorated in recent years, and even for several decades. Moreover, for having been mayor of a municipality benefiting from city policy – without experiencing the same degree of difficulty as the districts in your constituency, I agree – I agree with you that the structural causes of these difficulties must be addressed. Nevertheless, I cannot let you say that the Government does not attack many of them. The first is housing. Remember the situation of the ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal – in 2017, when we got to business, and compare it with today's, where nearly 8 billion euros were committed on more than 300 projects. Remember Jean-Louis Borloo's decisive action on this issue. It is undeniable that housing is a structural issue on which we must move forward. Let us take the case of degraded condominiums, a problem on which no one has ever really intervened in recent years, even though it is well known that the victims are the most fragile populations: once again, 3 billion euros have been released over ten years for 56,000 dwellings. The other structuring project is that of education. One cannot ignore the success of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 of the REPs and REP+ – priority education networks and priority education networks strengthened. In 2017, in my commune, we looked at this case with great caution; Today, neither the educational community nor the parents of students are considering going back to this unprecedented duplication, on which Jean-Michel Blanquer has invested a great deal. The system of Educational Cities is also progressing. Are we going fast enough? This is another debate. In any event, the reality is that proposals are on the table and that they are coming forward. Without lingering on a gigantic subject, I would of course like to mention security, which is not just a matter of media reinforcement, but also secularism and the fight against communitarianism. Like me, you have heard the wishes of the President of the Republic: important announcements will be made on the subject in the coming weeks. I could also talk about health and public service homes in these neighbourhoods, if I wasn't in a hurry of time. It is not for me to reply to you about the establishment of a commission of inquiry, but Parliament can control the Government's policy without going through it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u113	Mr Marc Le Fur, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 877, concerning the France Very High-speed Plan in Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u114	Minister, what is the Government's policy in the area of broadband? In essence, that is the question. You know the expectations of our fellow citizens, businesses and families; A short time ago, ministers – in particular Mr Denormandie – spread throughout France to explain that all our compatriots would benefit from the very high speed in 2025. The financing does not follow: the finance law is extremely disappointing on this issue, since it only allocates EUR 140 million to this policy. What will be the consequences for our regions? The Brittany region has invested a great deal through the Mégalis structure, which brings together the region, departments and communities; Britain's demand alone is EUR 200 million, of which we count. So far, we have received aid from the European Union, which is no longer at our side; Will the state be, and for what amount? That's my question. More specifically, a document published at the end of 2019 specified the terms of reference for funding future public initiative network projects in rural areas. Until then, it had been assumed that the state would accompany 100 per cent of families. This document refers to another figure: 92%. This amounts to leaving behind 8% of the houses, the most isolated, for which the cost of connecting to the fibre would be the highest. You can imagine the consequences in the rural world, especially in a region like Brittany, where the habitat is very dispersed. Mr Minister, I expect specific answers: how much will Brittany receive in support of Megalis? And what about this new 92% rule?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u115	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u116	Thank you for your specific question, Mr Le Fur, to which I will give the answer prepared by Bruno Le Maire and Julien Denormandie. First of all, I would like to recall the objectives of the France Plan. Very high-speed, which you know: guarantee everyone access to broadband or very high-speed by the end of 2020; provide all territories with state-of-the-art digital infrastructure by giving all access to high-speed by the end of 2022, with 80% of the space connected to fibre optics. The latest figures published by ARCEP – the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority – are encouraging: at the end of the third quarter of 2019, 22.4 million premises were eligible for very high-speed services, all technologies combined, of which 16.1 million were outside very dense areas. With regard to rural areas and the RIP projects – public initiative networks – that you are referring to, know that all the projects already funded should achieve coverage of almost 92% of the fibre space by 2025, placing France among the first European countries in the field of fibre deployment, which is in line with the objective of very high speed for all by 2022. Your question is an opportunity for me to reaffirm the Government's willingness to go further in the digital coverage of all territories through fibre optics. The Ministry of Economy and Finance, in conjunction with Ms. Gourault and Mr. Denormandie, proposed to generalize fibre in all departments, and to this end to open a new funding window to accompany departments that are not yet involved in this process. The Government has already committed to earmarking €280 million for this objective by 2022 to support the communities concerned, with a view to ensuring the cohesion of the territories. Reactions from stakeholders to the new draft terms of reference submitted for public consultation in December 2019 were heard and Bercy's services are currently synthesizing all contributions. You mentioned the fact that the new draft terms of reference proposed new subsidy criteria different from the previous ones: it is normal, because today's situation is not the one that prevailed at the beginning of the history of the France Very high-speed plan. It is therefore logical to change these criteria. We share the same objective: to provide the largest number of people with access to digital infrastructures. Your question was specific, Mr Le Fur, and the answer prepared by my colleagues is not complete; I also undertake to relay your request to the Minister of Economy and Finance and Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, who will receive you to specify the sums that can be allocated specifically to the Brittany region. The elements I have communicated to you are global objectives on which the Government has made a strong commitment; to the best of my knowledge, no previous government had undertaken to this extent to assist operators in the AMII areas – a call for a demonstration of investment intention – and to provide financial support to local and regional authorities through joint trade unions and ad hoc regional structures, such as the one you mentioned for Brittany. The aim will be to identify these global elements in each territory. I will ask my colleagues to be at your disposal, because I know your long-standing commitment on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u117	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u118	I have no doubt about your commitment to this, Minister, and I know your commitment to rural areas, because of your Norman itinerary. I hear the Government's very ambitious remarks, but I do not see the funding following. One hundred and forty million euros under the finance law for 2020, and 282 million until the end of the mandate, is little in terms of national ambition. There's a huge gap! You do not give me the figure for Brittany, which I understand since it is still under negotiation, but the budgets will soon have to be voted: the budget of Megalis will be voted in a few weeks, without the amount of state support being known! This seems to me to be objectively disturbing. You confirm that the state will only support projects for 92% of families. This means that 8% of families, those most remote from the networks and most in need of the connection, will no longer be supported at all. That's terrible! The universality, which you so much like to invoke, is clearly lacking: we abandon 8% of our territory, contrary to the promises of departure. I am counting on you, Minister, to get this 92% rule abandoned and the coverage of 100% of the French, and therefore 100% of the Britons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u119	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor to put his question, No 871, on France's very high-speed plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u120	At the end of 2019, 22 million premises were eligible for fibre optic offers up to the subscriber, an increase of 34% in one year. These results are in line with the objectives set by the Government: broadband access in 2020 and very high-speed access in 2022. In my constituency of 15 communes, I have been very attentive to this deployment, particularly in the cantons of Pignan and Frontignan where the territorial divide is important, especially in terms of mobility. I am pleased to note that the commitments of the operators have been met on the whole, although the deployment in the municipalities has not yet reached 100%. Two communes, Balaruc-les-Bains and Fabrègues, were among the last construction sites; I have been there very recently with the mayors, who have fully reassured me. The main operator, with whom I have discussed at length, welcomes the efficient exchanges with the elected officials, which have allowed a rapid deployment in line with the agenda, but also all the measures of the ELAN law, which have greatly facilitated the deployment of fiber in many places. A few remarks, however. It would be relevant to improve information on the construction of the lines; Indeed, some returns of land show that owners discover the deployment after the fact. While they should be happy about it, they mainly note the lack of information. Another problem that has been reported to me is the concern of elected officials about the most remote and often isolated dwellings. Although many will be able to take advantage of the "digital cohesion of the territories" and the €150 aid, the famous last kilometer is often the most complicated to achieve because the operation is technically complex and much less profitable for operators. Can you, Minister, reassure us about the mobilization of operators to bring this technology to our fellow citizens who have not yet benefited from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u121	[[At 11.15 a.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u122	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u123	Mr Demoulin, we know your attachment to the communes of L'Hérault, of which you are an important spokesperson in Paris, relaying territorial expectations. You have already had the opportunity to question the Government on these matters; your investment in this area is old and recognized. Bruno Le Maire and Julien Denormandie asked me to answer this morning your question about the operators' commitments to cover the territory in fibre optic networks to the subscriber, known as the FTTH network. Private operators are heavily involved in the deployment of the very dense area – 6.5 million premises – and the Call for Investment Intent (AMI) area – 13.8 million premises. Their efforts are expected to make 20.3 million premises connected to the FTTH by 2022. With regard to the AMII area, which largely corresponds to the peripheries of large and medium-sized cities, the operators Orange and SFR committed themselves to the Government, in a binding manner, under article L. 33-13 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code, to cover it by the end of 2020. The Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes, ARCEP – an independent authority you know well – is responsible for monitoring and enforcing these commitments. If necessary, it may use its sanctioning powers. Nevertheless, the latest figures published by ARCEP are rather encouraging. As I said earlier to President Marc Le Fur, as of September 30, 2019, 16.7 million premises were eligible for FTTH offers, an increase of 34% in one year. In rural areas covered by public initiative networks, 2.9 million premises were connected to fibre at the end of September 2019, or about 17% of the total. The pace of deployments of FTTH lines in the public initiative area is again increasing sharply, with 350,000 premises made eligible in the third quarter of 2019. The effort still needs to be accelerated if the ambitious commitments that have been made are to be met. The Government is watching over this, as are the deputies of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u124	As the minister has not yet answered the next questions, we are suspending our work for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u125	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u126	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u127	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No 883, on the STAPS programme at the University of Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u128	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to draw your attention to the situation at the University of Le Mans. A few weeks ago, the university experienced a student and teacher movement linked to the lack of sufficient supervision in one of its main fields: the STAPS sector – science and technology of physical and sports activities – which, with 1000 students, has 20 full teachers. In ten years, the number of students has increased threefold, while the number of teaching posts has increased threefold. Of course, more than 60 stakeholders complete the service; However, the number of posts remains insufficient and the conditions of study are unsatisfactory. The teacher-student ratio remains lower than that of other comparable courses, especially since 120 students were enrolled in the first year of STAPS under the condition of an upgrade – the famous "yes if" of Parcoursup – which requires an effort by the university. Two teacher positions were awarded by the Rectorate to meet the needs of the new school year 2020. However, in order to support the specialties of the future, an exceptional plan must be considered for the recruitment of teachers-researchers in academic disciplines that can serve the specific needs of the sector and those of all sectors. I had asked the Government about the challenge for the city of Le Mans and the region of supporting several key areas of research, such as new materials, acoustics, automobiles, intelligent systems and the technical and societal dimensions of connected objects. I would like to know the ambitions of the Government and the State for higher education, vocational integration and research provided by the University of Le Mans for the benefit of all the territories it irrigates. Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which I hope is in favour of the university, the trainings, the teachers-researchers and, of course, the students and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u129	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u130	Mrs Karamanli, your question about the University of Le Mans concerns both the situation and the rate of supervision of the STAPS sector in the context of the transformation of the first cycle, and more broadly the future evolution of the university as a whole. First of all, I would like to point out that a little more than 1 billion euros are planned to finance the Student Plan and the transformation of the first cycle. Nearly EUR 500 million of budgetary appropriations are provided for the entire quinquennium, plus EUR 450 million from the investment programme for the future, PIA. In the framework of the law on the guidance and success of students, the University of Le Mans has thus received a first long-term grant of 392,500 euros, in return for an increase in the reception capacity in the first year of 157 places, including 97 in STAPS. This effort increased in 2019: a second grant of just over €205 million was granted to the institution. Universities, within the framework of their autonomy, have funding and choose how they use it. Thus, at the University of Le Mans, a first original device was experimented in 2018 and 2019, offering students who needed it the most for curriculum adjustments over an additional year. This scheme has been extended, in particular to the STAPS sector: to date, 271 students at the university benefit from it, of which 120 are in STAPS. This is why another specific allocation of €255780 has been allocated to students in the first year of STAPS, creating additional posts and increasing recruitment. As part of the strategic and management dialogue that I have wanted to establish with the institutions, the rectorate and the university are already working on the preparation for the next re-entry and are seeking to determine the number of posts and therefore the funding needed to improve the management rate. Beyond these financings linked to the transformation of the first cycle, I wanted to accompany the University of Le Mans to the level of € 200000 to secure its trajectory of return to financial balance, a very important objective. In total, the university received €1.1 million in additional perennial funding, plus €2.6 million for sports equipment. The strategic and management dialogue that I wanted to establish between my ministry and the universities, through the rectorates, really aims to better support each institution in the implementation of its project. It already allows us to note the important dynamism of the University of Le Mans, which is a little more important daily as a leading territorial interlocutor. The university wanted to make the proximity and pedagogical quality of the structural elements of its territorial signature. The Government will of course accompany him in this process. Thanks to their successful partnership, the universities of Le Mans and Angers will benefit from funding from the investment programme of the future – PIA – for three pedagogical renovation projects: Thélème, Étoile and ECRI +. The University of Le Mans will, of course, be able to take advantage of all the measures put forward by the Government in the framework of the multi-year research programming law which we will have to discuss very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u131	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot to speak on his question No 888 on the University of Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u132	First of all, I would like to express my best wishes to you, Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, particularly in view of the review of the Multiannual Research Programming Act. My question is about the research community of Toulouse, particularly those of the university. The Federal University of Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées, spread over eight departments and thirteen cities, brings together more than 105,000 students, including 4,500 PhD students, approximately 17,000 staff and 145 research laboratories. The University of Toulouse represents a major potential in the national research landscape, at the heart of a set of large national institutions located nearby: the National Centre for Space Studies – CNES –, the National School of Civil Aviation – ENAC –, Météo France, the National Office for Aerospace Studies and Research – ONERA –, the Higher Institute for Aeronautics and Space – ISAE-SUPAERO –, the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment – INRAE –, the National Centre for Scientific Research – CNRS –, the European Centre for Advanced Research and Training in Scientific Computation – CERFACS –, the Office for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – CEA –, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – INSERM –, the Midi-Pyrénées Observatory, the Centre hospitalier universitaire – CHU –, the Oncopole, the Veterinary School, the National Polytechnic Institute – INP –, the National Institute of Applied Sciences – INSTEM –, the Midi-Pyrénées Observatory, the Centre hospitalier universitaire – CHU –, the Oncopole, the National Polytechnic Institute – INP – INST – the Institut national Institute for Technology Sciences – INST – INST – InST – InST – InST – the Institut de InST, the Institut national InST I've certainly forgotten. The Toulouse university site lost the label and funding of the initiative of excellence program, called IDEX, which it had at its disposal between 2013 and 2016. This lack of a recognition label constitutes an anomaly in the national landscape in view of the academic forces present in Toulouse. Despite this situation, the highly dynamic Toulouse scientific community has increased collaborations with industrial partners, SMEs and start-ups in order to build the scientific projects of the future. Let's mention the project Artificial and Natural Intelligence Toulouse Institute – ANITI, supported by the University of Toulouse, which augurs a strong collective dynamic, in synergy with many industrial partners. ANITI brings together research, applications and training in artificial intelligence in the fields of transport, environment and health, with nearly 40 research laboratories and some 30 companies, including Airbus, Aerospace Valley, Thales, Continental, Renault, Pierre Fabre, Biogemma, Syngenta, Atos, IoT Valley. The multi-annual programming law is expected to be necessary in Toulouse. However, it raises many concerns. The Toulouse scientific community wonders whether the University of Toulouse will be recognized as what it is, i.e. a large university of research, with sufficient funding to enable it to develop a major scientific policy and to have international influence. The challenge is not only to promote the European and international attractiveness of the Toulouse University, but also to make it, within a few years, a major economic player, while it already contributes significantly to the economic dynamism of the region. How do you see the positioning of this university in the next multi-year research programming law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u133	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u134	The Federal University of Toulouse is at the heart of one of the most dynamic university sites in our country. It brings together thirty-one higher education and research institutions, four universities, one national university institute, eighteen engineering or specialized schools, one university hospital centre, seven research institutions and 143 laboratories. It provides more than a thousand different training courses and is well established in the regional economic fabric. Despite its undeniable advantages, she did not obtain the IDEX label for the UNIT project, which she had developed between 2016 and 2018. It should be remembered that this label, drawn up by the secretariat, placed with the Prime Minister, who leads the investment programme for the future – PIA – is issued by an international jury. It was neither the quality of training nor the quality of research carried out within the university that justified the jury's decision. The purpose of the IDEX label is to bring out institutions that want to give themselves the means of an international reach comparable to that of the world's best universities. This requires specific reflection on the organisation and governance of institutions. The UNIT project did not allow sufficient guarantees to be given to the jury with regard to the acceptance of all the actors, which justified the decision taken. Everyone remembered the difficulties encountered at the time by Toulouse II University, which had moved away from the initial ambition of the Federal University and could no longer meet its board of directors. These difficulties led me to take an exceptional step: the appointment of a provisional administrator to hold new elections within the institution. Nevertheless, the Toulouse site is destined to grow. He has also been the recipient of calls for projects for the interdisciplinary institutes of artificial intelligence – 3IA. We work with all the actors to find a common ambition at the site level. The Multiannual Research Programming Act is not intended to support a particular discipline or site. It must allow each institution to express itself and to have its qualities recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u135	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to put her question, No 864, concerning the dam at Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u136	I wanted to ask the minister for the ecological and solidarity transition about the renewal of the concession for the development and exploitation of the Rhône. The concession, entrusted to the Compagnie nationale du Rhône – CNR – expires in 2023 and its extension until 2041 is envisaged. This extension project includes the construction of several hydroelectric installations on existing dams, the restoration and equipping of thresholds along the Rhône, the modification of the locks of Bollène and Châteauneuf-du-Rhône, the study of the increase in the production capacity of the hydroelectric plant at Châteauneuf-du-Rhône and the construction of a new hydroelectric plant at Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas. Referred to in December 2018, the National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP – completed last July a first public consultation under the auspices of Jacques Archimbaud. While this consultation showed that the extension attracted broad stakeholder approval, it also highlighted the lack of information from some stakeholders and their desire to be better informed. It was in the area of water and biodiversity protection that the discrepancy between the Department's intentions and the proposed extension was most contested. In particular, the French Biodiversity Agency has called for better consideration of these issues. The Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas dam project, in particular, crystallises tensions. This book represents half of the programme of studies and works envisaged in the extension of the concession. Several actors are openly in favour of it, with the aim of increasing hydropower production and creating a new road route over the Rhône River. Others are fundamentally opposed to it, particularly with regard to the preservation of aquatic environments and landscapes, consistency with existing installations and actions and safety in view of the presence of the Bugey nuclear power plant. In order to create the conditions for dialogue and not to degrade the current positive relations between the CNR and most stakeholders, the guarantor makes three recommendations: to clarify the benefits that the Compagnie nationale expects of this project compared to other renewable energy investments; involving all stakeholders in the preparation of the pre-project studies; study the development of alternative projects meeting the same energy objectives. How will the Government encourage the involvement of local elected representatives – primarily mayors and departmental councillors – and associations of local residents, environmentalists, fishermen and hunters in the governance of this new concession? How will he ensure that all participate in the definition of the perimeter and in the completion of the studies of the dam of Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u138	First of all, I'd like to offer you my best wishes. Madam Member, thank you for this question on a subject that you have been following closely for years. Mrs. Elisabeth Borne being detained, she asked me to answer you. In order to mobilize investment for the territories in navigation and hydroelectric production, the Government wishes to extend until 2041 the Rhône concession, which is currently entrusted to the CNR. The draft extension was presented to the public in the first half of 2019, under the auspices of the CNDP, as part of a consultation with guarantor. However, it does not include any final decision on the new hydroelectric power plant in the Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas sector that the Government wishes to be reviewed by the concessionaire. It is the State which will decide, on the basis of the studies carried out by the CNR, whether or not this new dam should be constructed. The latter project will also need to be subject to public consultation under the aegis of the CNDP, followed by an administrative instruction to assess its impact on the environment and uses, before it can be authorised – with, where appropriate, specific requirements imposed under the sequence "avoid, reduce, compensate", in accordance with the Environmental Code. The project is part of the renewable energy development perspective set out in the multi-annual energy programming to address climate issues. It therefore needs to be thoroughly studied. We want to promote a more varied and less carbonised energy mix, which has led us to make hydropower an important part of the PPE. Following the consultation with guarantor conducted in the first half of 2019 on the proposed extension of the concession, the State has undertaken to involve stakeholders in the territory from the stage of carrying out the studies. The Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition will therefore ensure that this association is effective as soon as the extension decree is published, at which point the concessionaire will be able to initiate the studies that we wish. I know, Mrs Motin, that you will be vigilant on this issue, and I thank you in advance for the dialogue that we are going to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u139	Mr Martial Saddier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 872, on flood prevention and tree replanting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u140	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, may I also offer you my best wishes for the new year. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to the decree of 28 August 2019 laying down various provisions for the adaptation of the rules relating to flood prevention works. If there is no question of calling into question the need to carry out works to strengthen the dykes and prevent the risk of flooding, it must be noted that this text, which provides for new rules for hydraulic installations and containment systems, is problematic, since it imposes the cutting of trees and prohibits any replanting once the dykes have been renovated. This prohibition applies to the entire national territory, regardless of dikes, floods, rivers, rivers or territories, whether urban or not. Local actors organised in public water management and development establishments – EPAGE –, in public territorial basin establishments – EPTB –, in river contracts or in water planning and management schemes – SAGE – would like to benefit from greater flexibility in cuttings and the possibility of replanting species compatible with environmental requirements and with the stability of new works carried out: this flexibility is essential for the protection of biodiversity and adaptation to climate change, especially in urban areas. The different species of trees planted on the riverbank contribute to the maintenance and development of biodiversity. Madam Secretary of State, it is necessary, in my view, that a compromise be found between the prevention of floods and the preservation of the natural environment that characterizes the approaches of our rivers. What is the Government's position on the subject? Do you think that a compromise can be found in each territory, depending on its specificities, between the State departments and local actors responsible for river management and flood risk prevention?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u141	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u142	Mr President, as you know, flood prevention is not incompatible with biodiversity conservation issues, on the contrary. Different approaches can be considered: the construction of dikes is one of them, but nature-based solutions also allow, in some configurations, very efficient results, with lower maintenance costs. Thus, the restoration of a flood expansion zone or the natural bed of a watercourse contributes both to flood prevention and to the preservation of biodiversity. In the future, I personally will be committed to promoting public policies based on this type of solution. The dikes impose specific maintenance requirements. The presence of trees and woody vegetation can reduce the solidity of the structure, particularly as a result of preferential root-induced flow paths. However, the regulation on the safety of containment systems is based on the principle that the manager commits himself to a level of protection of the structure and its maintenance over time, i.e. regular and adapted maintenance of the vegetation, without any obligation to systematically cut the vegetation. If the manager of a containment system so wishes, he may therefore opt for the maintenance of a form of vegetation, in particular if it contributes to the protection of a particular biodiversity, provided however that this vegetation is compatible with the level of protection of the containment system and that the manager undertakes maintenance measures allowing the maintenance of his work for the duration. I am convinced, honourable Member, that you understand the need for this subtle but indispensable balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u143	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u144	Thank you for this reply, Madam Secretary of State: it clarifies the decree of 28 August 2019 and will facilitate its application by local actors in the framework of the technical meetings preparatory to the development of new renovation or protection of the banks. As you pointed out, trees can reduce the risk of flooding, but this is not always the case. In any case, their cup must not be systematic – I am pleased that you have indicated it. In return, the manager must commit to maintaining non-hazardous trees or replanting species compatible with the protection of watercourses, as part of a multi-year maintenance programme. My question and your answer will allow local actors to be more effective in seeking the right balance between flood prevention and biodiversity protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u145	Mr Damien Adam, to put his question, No 866, on circumvention, is from Rouen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u146	First of all, I would like to wish everyone an excellent year 2020. Madam Secretary of State, my question relates to the state of play of the project of circumvention is from Rouen. For almost fifty years now, the Rouennais have been waiting for this project, which is indispensable for the further development of the territory. Almost all French agglomerations benefited from such an achievement; Rouen is one of the last to not own this infrastructure. The two-fold 40-kilometre motorway project planned in Rouen aims to divert the traffic of vehicles, particularly trucks, which now cross the city of Rouen and contribute to its pollution towards a new axis in the east. It would therefore represent a considerable gain for the environment. It should be recalled that the chosen route will ensure the maximum preservation of our forests and that the land used will be compensated, as close as possible to the infrastructure project. For the Rouennais, this bypass will make it possible to make travel times reliable, facilitate and shorten daily travel. The air quality and more generally the quality of life will be improved in the centre of Rouen. This project is also a guarantee of economic development for the whole Seine Valley, especially for the logistic and port areas. Finally, it will promote the connection of Normandy to the rest of Europe, through the North, avoiding Paris. The bypass is from Rouen, recognised as a priority by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, is one of the projects selected under the mobility guidance law – LOM – promulgated last December. The next step in its implementation will be to launch the procedure for the designation of the concessionaire responsible for building the new motorway. After the fire of the Lubrizol factory, which traumatized the inhabitants of Rouen and hard hit the image of the city, it is essential for our territory to bounce back. The circumvention project, if implemented quickly, could be an essential element of this rebound. Madam Secretary of State, can you give us a precise timetable for the next steps of the project and tell us when the procedure for the designation of the future concessionaire will be launched? It is urgent to start this step in order to meet the implementation date of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u147	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u148	Mr President, you have taken an active part in the debates that led to the vote on the LOM law, and I know that you are aware of the implementation of this text. Your question is addressed to Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, who entrusted me with answering you. The bypass project is from Rouen, as you pointed out, is one of the priorities identified in the framework of the infrastructure programming provided for by the LOM law. This is an important project for the territory, which will make it possible, in particular, to divert the transit traffic that is currently going through the heart of Rouen and to improve the quality of internal trade in the agglomeration – you have reminded us at the moment of the other benefits that the city can expect from it. The Government signed and published in November 2017 the decree declaring the construction of this infrastructure to be of public utility. The studies have been continued and the State's commitments to improving the living environment of the inhabitants and the natural environment have been formalized in the State's commitment file published in June 2018. Land reservations are organised with the land development and rural settlement company – SAFER – and the organisation of the land development procedure is initiated. After the enactment of the LOM Act 15 days ago, the Government will decide at the beginning of the year on the operational timetable for the selection of the private partner to carry out the infrastructure. This decision will be in line with the timetable set out in scenario 2 of the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, which prevailed over the drafting of the LOM law, i.e. the initiation of the concession procedure before the end of 2022. The Government will ensure – and I am confident that you will help us, MP – that the importance of the project will be recognized over the next few years as part of the various competitive procedures for this type of infrastructure. Be assured, Mr Adam, of the state's full commitment to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u149	Mr Damien Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u150	The Government will therefore return to local elected officials and all actors at the beginning of the year to define the precise timetable for the next steps. It also confirms that a concessionaire will be selected by 2022; I am pleased that he is maintaining this commitment made in 2017. Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State: the implementation of the project of circumvention is of Rouen, essential for our territory, will not fail to reassure the local economic and political actors. See you soon for a next step!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u151	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to put his question, No 873, on the operation of the Transilian network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u152	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to talk to you about the suburban trains in Île-de-France and in particular the situation of RER C and D. Suburb trains in Île-de-France account for 70% of SNCF's national traffic: we understand that this is an important subject! RER C and D, on the other hand, carry more than 1.3 million passengers per day. Today, while a large number of users are immobilized and paralyzed by the social movements that block our region, the heightened tensions between travellers add to the outdated network they have been experiencing for several years, not to mention the difficulties associated with the risky management of SNCF's operation of the network. RER C and D are waiting for investment! In recent years, they have benefited from massive investments by the Île-de-France region, amounting to EUR 800 million per year, but the State is not complying with its commitments under the State-region plan contract. He had to provide 400 million a year until 2022 to renovate the RER network, but he indicated, during the discussion and the vote on the LOM law, that he would not even give 190 million each year. It therefore divides by two the investments intended for the daily transport of the Francilians, which, Madam Secretary of State, we obviously cannot accept. The investment path set by the State-region plan contract is essential to meet two major challenges: on the one hand, the regeneration of the current network, which millions of francilian users borrow every day; on the other hand, the creation of new public transport, because the region is densifying and earning 70000 inhabitants each year. Will the State be at the rendezvous of the regeneration of our public transport? Is he aware of the oldness of our RER? Will he double his investments in daily transportation in Île-de-France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u154	The State-region plan contract for Île-de-France 2015-2020 has an urban transport component, a feature that does not exist for any other region. It mobilises more than €7.6 billion, including 1.4 billion from the state, which demonstrates a concrete commitment, and 1.6 billion from the Société du Grand Paris – SGP. By the end of 2019, the State had invested more than 1 billion in public transport in Île-de-France in five years, or more than 200 million euros per year. At the same time, the GSP invested more than $1.5 billion. These figures, I believe, reflect the State's commitment to the development of public transport in the Greater Paris area. The Government is well aware of the major mobility challenges facing the Île-de-France region. We have the objective of unlocking an allocation of 750 million for public transport in the francilian region for the period 2020-2022. This figure is much higher than the 190 million annuals you mentioned, Mr. Member. This effort will respond to the main projects expected and structuring in Île-de-France, including the Eole project to extend the EER to the west, the extension of the metro line 11 and the creation of the T12 Express and T13 Express tram lines. The improvement of the RER and the Transilians, essential for the daily transport of millions of Francilians, is of course one of the main axes of this plan contract. All financers combined, €1.3 billion were planned for the RER A, B, C, D and E master plans. Real technological leaps, like the NExTEO project for RER B and D, are expected in the coming years. The results are here! The regularity of the RER D is already in progress, for example. We also meet more local needs through the financing of new trams or TZen. Finally, in addition to the public transport projects financed by the State-region plan contract, the Grand Paris Express, implemented with the local authorities concerned, will deploy an additional 200 kilometres of automatic metro for an investment of 35 billion. The Government has confirmed, as you know, the full implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u155	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u156	The State has become aware of the challenges facing the Île-de-France region in terms of daily mobility: I have no doubt, Madam Secretary of State. You talked about Greater Paris; It is a project that I support, of course. However, it is now essential to improve the daily transport that allows the Francilians to go from their homes to their jobs. The first of them is the RER. You have stressed the commitment of the State, but it will be insufficient: it would have to amount to 400 million euros per year until 2022, it will be – as you said – only 750 million euros for three years; This means that there is a shortfall of 450 million to complete the financing plan and to deliver on the government's promises to improve the RSP, in particular lines C and D. The region, for its part, is in the process of investing €24 billion between 2016 and 2025, and its investment budget, particularly in transport, has quadrupled, thanks to management savings on, among other things, the operation of certain lines. It would be good if the State were inspired by this method, by reducing its life course to better invest. In addition, as SNCF's sole shareholder, it must put pressure on SNCF to improve the operation of the RER lines. For thirty years, we made the choice of all TGV; We must now give priority to the daily train.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u157	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u158	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to put her question, No 882, concerning the stoppage of night trains in Vierzon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u159	First of all, best wishes for the new year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u160	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u161	My question is to the Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport. But I have no doubt that you are also interested in her, Madam Secretary of State, since she is concerned with ecology. My city of Vierzon is located 183 kilometres from Paris. By train, it is one hour and thirty-one minutes from the capital, where many of its inhabitants travel daily to work. However, we found that the number of evening services had decreased, obliging travellers to leave Paris by 7:41 p.m. at the latest, thus their place of work no later than 7 p.m. Similarly, in the morning, the first train arrives in Paris only at 8:16 a.m. Night train stops were abolished at least two years ago; It would be good, according to many Vierzonnais, to restore them. These stops offer a better service and improve the attractiveness of the Cher, especially for Parisian executives wishing to set up their families in an average city in the nearby province. What exactly is this? From the night train 3731 Paris-Toulouse, which departs from Paris at 10:05 p.m. and previously stops at Vierzon at 00:06 p.m., as well as from the night train 3730 Toulouse-Paris, which stopped at Vierzon at 4:05 a.m., and allowed to reach the capital at 6:57 a.m. for morning appointments. Re-establishing these stops would not be more expensive, since the trains pass through Vierzon anyway and you can access the docks without the station being opened; It's enough that the trains stop again. These hourly considerations aim to facilitate the move into the Cher of those who might consider it while having Parisian ties, both professional as well as social or cultural. Conversely, the extension of service schedules would allow the Berrichons to put more emphasis on their proximity to Paris and to take advantage of it themselves. A final argument: with the ecological transition, night trains benefit from a renewed interest, especially among those who want to access more virtuous and baggage-free transport. Thus, demands are emerging in France to restore night trains, including the Perpignan-Paris, less expensive than the TGV and just as efficient. Austria is even reviving the night train across Europe, a neglected market which seems to be again attracting attention as a result of environmental awareness. Germany also adopts this perspective. And the first attendance results are not disappointing. Madam Secretary of State, would you be in favour of the night trains stopping again in Vierzon in order to improve the connection between the Cher and the capital? Would you also be in favour of a revision of rail policy with regard to night trains, with a view to sustainable development and regional planning? In addition, as part of a project to consolidate the Perpignan-Rungis line for the transport of fruit and vegetables, it was proposed to transport also passengers to make the journey profitable; Can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u163	Best wishes to you too, Madam Member, for the year that begins. I hear your concern for both day-to-day mobility and ecological transition: we really have the same concerns. I thank you for proposing a whole series of avenues that could allow us to move forward by finding very concrete solutions to some of the problems specific to your territory, of which I know how much you are committed to defending it and how much you are doing it tirelessly. I will reply to you on behalf of the Secretary of State for Transport, retained elsewhere, which you will certainly understand, but which fully adheres to what I am going to tell you. In September 2018, Élisabeth Borne, then minister responsible for transport, announced the continuation of the agreement between the State and SNCF concerning the two existing night train lines, Paris-Briançon and Paris-Rodez-Latour-de-Carol, as well as the modernisation of their equipment for an amount of approximately 40 million euros, financed by the State. While the usual route of Paris-Rodez-Latour-de-Carol passes through Vierzon, renovations of the infrastructure require that this train be diverted by Poitiers, more than six months a year for several years. Diversion varies from day to day, as it depends on the program of work. It is therefore not possible to provide for a regular stop on the night train in Vierzon. More generally, your inquiry raises a fundamental question: is a night train suitable for transporting travellers travelling by day? This includes service and cohabitation in common spaces between travellers with very different expectations. This issue will be addressed, among other things – some of which you have raised – in the report to be submitted by the Government to Parliament by 30 June, in accordance with the Mobility Orientation Act, concerning conditions for the development of the territory's balance trains – TET – including night trains. I appreciate Parliament's attention to this issue, as the Senate held a specific debate on this issue last November. The example of the Austrian Federal Railway Company, also quite interesting, will have to be an integral part of the discussions; Thank you for quoting it. For my part, I am convinced that the night train can be an offer of transport adapted to certain needs and essential issues in terms of spatial planning, but also to the deeper aspirations of the citizens, including the fight against CO emissions. I am grateful to you for pointing out this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u164	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-07-O1114.u165	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Questions on the military programming law; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to protect the competitiveness of economic financing as part of the transposition of the 2017 Basel Committee agreement. The meeting is adjourned.
