ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u1	The next item is the vote on the draft law on the annulment of the second round of the general renewal of municipal and community councillors, Paris councillors and councillors of the Lyon metropolis of 2020, the organisation of a new vote in the municipalities concerned, the transitional operation of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation and the postponement of consular elections (No. 3021, 3043). I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u2	Since no Government member has yet arrived, the meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u3	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u4	The next item is the questions on housing policy: the impact of the covid-19 crisis, prospects for economic recovery and the essential ecological transition. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u5	In the area of housing policy, two issues need to be taken into account if we are to achieve our objectives for thermal renewal: the amount of aid and the framework within which it is allocated. As regards the amount, I would first like to stress the importance of the social dimension of the fight against energy insecurity. Who lives mostly in thermal colanders? It is the modest households, the very ones who have been more affected by the consequences of confinement. Because the revival that we call for must reconcile economic ambition with the ecological imperative, the renovation of buildings must play a central role. Since the Grenelle de l'Environnement, government plans have followed each other, setting ever more ambitious goals. In 2015, the Energy Transition for Green Growth Act resulted in the elimination of thermal colanders by 2028. Five years later, the results are still insufficient: there are still 6.7 million thermal colanders in France and at the current rate of 300,000 to 400,000 dwellings renovated per year, the target will not be achieved. The Finance Act for 2020 provides for the gradual replacement of the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – by a premium for modest households, without the ninth and tenth deciles or owners-bequesters being able to collect it. They are, however, the ones who carry out the majority of the work. Are you considering, as part of the recovery plan, reviewing the copy? Renovation of the social park poses the same difficulty: since 2018, the state has reduced overall the resources of social donors; What measures will you take to strengthen their capacity to act on energy renewal? Will you increase the State's contribution to the National Stone Aid Fund – FNAP? With regard to the obligation to renovate thermal colanders, the Energy and Climate Act had led to an unambitious consensus. Do you intend to improve it to speed up the work? More generally, are you ready to increase the funds allocated for energy renovation from 3 to 5 billion euros, the annual minimum required by all professionals to achieve the thermal renovation objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u6	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for having had the initiative of this debate: it is with great pleasure that I am here this afternoon to answer you. Mr President, you are fundamentally right: the energy renovation of buildings must be a major focus of the revival of our country's economic activity. First of all, it is an imperative necessity; As you explained, I'm not going back to the record. Secondly, such a renovation would very quickly revive the economic machine: it involves work that we can do immediately, while the construction requires de facto more time. In addition, I want to be the minister of renovation as well as the minister of construction. I've been saying it since the first day, so I'm very comfortable repeating it in front of you. Too often, the criteria for judging the activity of a government and a housing minister have been defined in terms of construction, not renovation. Several elements can answer your multiple questions about energy renewal. Firstly, the objective is twofold: to simplify access to aid and to reduce the remaining burden. Thus, since 1 January, the energy transition tax credit has been transformed into a very simple aid: My Prime Renovation. It also helps to reduce the remainder, because the premium is collected immediately, while the tax credit involves a cash advance. We have ensured that My Prime Renovation operates throughout the containment period, and the figures speak for themselves: only 20% of the most modest households received the ecological transition tax credit, while My Prime Renovation benefits 50% of them. You have to go further in the direction you are pointing; As time short, I will come back to it in more detail later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u8	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u9	Mr Minister, I say that the financial resources are, at the moment, generally insufficient to achieve our objectives. With regard to the technical means of aid, everyone in France recognizes their complexity. Their number leads a lot to give up; In addition, they change too regularly and ask for a multitude of actors and structures to advise households: the energy info spaces, the family allowance fund, the regional branches of the Energy Transition Agency, formerly the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and the National Housing Agency – ANAH – which remain poorly known. The public service DOING – facilitating, accompanying and informing for energy renewal – does not, for the moment, provide real simplification, even if it still needs to be generalized. The effectiveness of its SARE information programme – Support Service for Energy Renewal – which came into force last January, remains to be proven. The devices themselves lack legibility: energy saving certificates, ANAH aids, ISCED – which is a bonus for some, a tax credit for others. How can our fellow citizens find themselves there? Nearly two thirds are unable to cite just one such aid; worse, some unscrupulous companies take advantage of this blur to develop scams: incomprehensible quotes, camouflaged credits, etc. Last but not least, the instability of the schemes, real tax yoyos, end up discouraging the most determined. Shouldn't households be put back at the heart of the service offer, through more proximity and better support? To this end, would you be prepared to regionalise all energy services, by entrusting the regions with all the financing, within the framework of objectives and means contracted with the State, and by generalising the accompanying arrangements, on the basis of the FAIRE programme? Organisations of this kind work well in a number of countries around us, including Germany and Austria, which are effective in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u10	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u11	Mr Pancher, you are right to ask for simplicity. On the other hand, let us not fall into a French context: to reduce complexity, we often create new windows, pretending to establish a single window with very simple operation, whereas in the end, we only add an umpteenth window to all those who have accumulated over the years. I consider the simplification to be based on the telephone number of the DOAR device – 0808800700 – which is rising in power. This system gives access to a multitude of professionals, organized by territories, who know which mechanism should be given priority, and can satisfy the specific needs of the French calling. Besides, you're right, there's a lot of holes left in the racket.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u12	Big holes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u13	On this very important issue, the Ma Prime Renovation scheme is a tremendous step forward, in particular by allowing for better co-ownership. Important work has already been done for those with the greatest danger. In Marseille, a little more than two years ago, a few weeks before the tragedy of Rue d'Aubagne, I announced an initiative for the most degraded condominiums, putting 3 billion euros on the table. Today, we need to better accompany condominiums that want to undertake energy renovations when they are not yet very degraded. A second gap – to which you referred earlier in your question – concerns landlords: the current arrangements are not enough for them, and too much for the owner-occupiers. I am confident that My Prime Renovation', this beautiful tool that we have developed thanks to the tremendous work of the ANAH teams will allow them to better accompany them and fill these two holes in the snowshoe. In the end, I am extremely in favour of regionalisation of aid – many, moreover, are already regionalised, with the State acting as co-financer. It is in this spirit that these devices are deployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u14	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u15	After being confined to their small dwellings, many residents of large cities want to invest in secondary residences: while the market has slowed down for almost two months, real estate agents have recorded on their websites an influx of consultations for advertisements concerning houses with gardens, not all internet users having the aim of making them main residences. These aspirations, if realized, would further increase the real estate pressure on tourist areas – I am thinking in particular of the coastline, the islands, but also the mountain resorts, regions such as Brittany or Corsica, where the effects of the inflation of the price of real estate are felt, to the point that it is very difficult for permanent residents to live where they work. To these central issues of access to property or rental are problems of spatial planning: how can public services be guaranteed when the population is multiplied tenfold during the summer? Policies to limit the number of secondary residences and to facilitate access to housing for permanent residents exist in foreign islands such as the Balearic Islands or Sardinia, which, through their autonomous status, can regulate flows and adapt tax tools. These possibilities do not exist in France, which poses major problems in some territories – I am thinking in particular of the South of Brittany. My question is threefold: will the future bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration, called "3D", take into account the problem of residentization? Will it empower communities to pursue a policy that promotes ownership of premises, which is an important social issue? Could a resident status, giving priority to those who live year-round in the territory, be considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u16	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u17	Mr Molac, you are raising a problem that has often been addressed in this House, which we have been seeking a solution for years, in vain. Why? In many tourist communes, on the coast or on the mountain, it is intuitively thought that secondary residents should be distinguished from those who have established their principal residence there. But this poses a huge difficulty. Suppose you own a secondary residence. Your spouse can very well declare her as her principal residence, allowing you to pass through the meshes of the net, if the chosen device is tax. You yourself have indicated the limit of these devices. While we've been focusing on tax responses for years, and we're putting a lot of energy into it, I think we need to find other solutions. I strongly advocated a mechanism, which we debated in this House when we considered the bill on housing, development and digital development, says ELAN: the land offices in solidarity, through which we can make sure that the investments are of benefit to residents throughout the year. Moreover, since ownership of the land, which remains in public power, is dissociated from ownership of the building, the acquisition cost to the year-round residents is much less than would normally have been. The first operations of a solidarity land office led to an inauguration a few weeks ago in Espelette. Since then, even the town hall of Paris has been following the steps of this commune. In fact, I anticipated it by announcing: "If it is possible in Espelette, it must be possible in Paris too! I call on all local elected officials to appropriate this beautiful device; my services are at their disposal to accompany the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u18	Hidalgo rather than Buzyn, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u19	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u20	I associate myself with my question, Mr Pinel, who cannot be present in the light of the current conditions. Minister, at the height of the crisis, the construction sector has been severely slowed down, with almost nine out of ten construction sites at a standstill. Many of us were concerned about this, knowing the importance of this sector for the local economy and employment, which I measure every day in my department, Mayenne. Today, activity is gradually resuming. According to the latest figures, 83% of construction sites are open. Good practice guides are being published, adjustments have been made to extend construction permit deadlines, and other town planning permits. However, the difficulties faced by artisans persist, with only 53% of construction sites resuming at a normal rate. The main difficulty arises from the additional cost of health measures, which companies are struggling to bear, while customers wishing to share the burden of overtaking are rare. Last week, Bruno Le Maire mentioned that these additional costs were covered in the third amending budget for 2020. What form will it take? What are the proportions? Is the track of a drop in charges on the table? On the other hand, there is concern that some individuals may no longer be able to carry out the planned work at home. Are you considering, for example, a rise in the power of the Ma Prime Renovation device? Finally, noting that the exceptional solidarity aid remains insufficient, will this new amending budget provide for additional aid for households experiencing difficulties in paying their rent, e.g. by strengthening the solidarity fund for housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u21	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u22	Mr President, today the desire to take over is fully shared by businesses, entrepreneurs and, of course, the French, as is evident in the figures. The latest study, commissioned by the French Federation of Buildings, indicates that 83% of construction sites have resumed. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these figures date from 29 May. Two weeks earlier, only fifty and a few percent of the construction sites had reopened. In view of this dynamic, the current figures, which we do not yet know, should be well above 83%. In Île-de-France, the Fédération des promoteurs immobiliers de France mentioned the figure of 95% last week. You are absolutely right to mention the craftsmen, for whom I have special attention. I say this clearly to all the French who listen to us: we must trust the artisans. I believe that this message also underlies your question. The health guide you mention has been prepared with the French Federation of Buildings, but also with CAPEB – the Confederation of Crafts and Small Building Enterprises – of which I greet the president, Patrick Liébus, and his teams, who are doing an extraordinary job. Today, artisans must be allowed to resume their activity. They can work in the homes of individuals with absolute respect for the security conditions – it is important to remind them, and to block behind them. You are also referring to the question of additional costs. It must be resolved on a case-by-case basis, trusting territorial intelligence, with public authorities providing solutions where the situation remains blocked. With regard to the control of public works, we have given instructions. In addition, in the third amending finance bill, support for local authorities is provided for, which will enable solutions to be found on a case-by-case basis. For the method, we will draw on a well-known circular from the professionals, that of 20 November 1974 on the compensation of the holders of public contracts in the event of an unpredictable increase in their economic costs. Finally, arrangements have been put in place at regional level to assist in decision-making, when collective intelligence has not been sufficient, and to enable the projects to succeed. The urge to take over is there. It is up to us to accompany him, and to have the artisans work, as you invite in your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u23	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u24	In the face of the health crisis, the Government has taken useful measures that we have welcomed, while pointing out some of their limitations. On the other hand, the measures taken to help our most fragile citizens have not met the needs. The aid of 150 euros, plus 100 euros per dependent child, paid to the beneficiaries of active solidarity income – the RSA – in mid-May, is far from sufficient to alleviate the difficulties that have accumulated for the past three months, as you know, I think. Moreover, unlike many of its neighbours, France did not consider it useful to create a solidarity fund dedicated to housing, while thousands of households are now unable to pay all or part of their rent. In April, the Federation of Associations and Actors for Housing Promotion and Inclusion – FAPIL – deplored a 50% increase in payment incidents compared to the previous month. Calls to the special number SOS unpaid rents also jumped by 50% compared to January. In my constituency, in Bagnolet, tenants of the private park went on a rent strike, with the help of the association Droit au logement, to contest the indecent explosion of the price of the square metre and the charges, incompatible with the resources of a vast majority of our fellow citizens. When housing becomes a luxury, it is no longer a right. Access to decent housing, such as food, water or care, should be guaranteed to every citizen. The Government must therefore take strong measures to avoid an explosion of evictions: a national fund must be created and abounded to help tenants in difficulty. In the social park, the State must grant aid to donors whose income is no longer sufficient to cover expenditure. In addition, given the current context, the winter truce must be extended throughout 2020. The Fondation Abbé Pierre – it would be possible to cite the work of other organisations that are doing a great job – considered that 200 million euros are needed to deal with the emergency in the housing sector. Billions have been found to help large companies. Can you find those 200 million?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u25	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u26	Mr President, we did not wait for your question to share this point. It has been easy to read my public statements for many weeks, during which I have highlighted the difficulties many families face. To be precise, often the difficulties do not concern rent, whose families prefer payment at the cost of other sacrifices, because they want to preserve their home. This is why food aid collection, among other things, has increased significantly. The problem is that your assertions about the Government's responses are not accurate. I'm not looking for polemic at all; It is simply that we need to be extremely precise about these issues. Firstly, the aid that the majority voted for is not only for the beneficiaries of the RSA, contrary to what you suggest, but also for the beneficiaries of the SSA – the specific solidarity grant – and, I absolutely wanted to say, for those of the APL – personalized housing grants. Some 4 million households have received this assistance. Secondly, my hand never shook to shift the end date of the winter truce, which I have already done twice. As I have already indicated, on 10 July we will examine the situation, to see what arrangements should be put in place in this area. In any case, this majority has already voted twice in favour of extending the winter truce. You call for the establishment of a solidarity fund for housing and the allocation of additional resources to social donors. At the beginning of the crisis, however, we have opened a €2 billion funding line for social donors, and we have increased by €1 billion the funds devoted to a technical mechanism, the participatory titles, to give the social donors, whom I have gathered every week throughout the period of confinement, the means to find the necessary individualised accompaniment – that is what is important. In addition, the fund you call the creation of exists, under the name of the Fonds de solidarité logement – FSL ; its allocation amounts to EUR 350 million. Our goal is to allow this fund, managed by departments and cities, to work. The state must be there to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u27	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u28	The exercise does not allow us to respond, but we will continue this debate, minister. As a Member of Parliament, I was fortunate enough to be able to visit the teams of Interlogement 93, based in Montreuil. This type of device exists in other departments: I invite you to accompany them, it allows you to see his constituency with a completely different eye. These teams run the 115 departmental call centre. Already overwhelmed in normal times, this device has received thousands of new demands related to the health crisis. In an attempt to meet the needs, the State has created additional places. Recently, you have made a commitment to keep these places open until July 10, or even beyond. However, in Seine-Saint-Denis, associations have been warning me for several days: on the ground, your commitments are not fulfilled. The state services order the closure of many places of reception and cut off the credits one after the other. Dozens of sheltered people have already been rejected on the street. Yet we are still in a period of winter truce; You said your hand wouldn't shake if it was to extend it. We are also in the midst of the state of health emergency that you have decreed and that you seem ready to extend until the autumn, which I encourage you to do. But what is the point of a state of emergency if it does not protect the population, especially the most fragile? At the beginning of May, you said: "It is important not to add family dramas, human dramas to this health period. I agree with that. However, such tragedies are taking place every day in the Seine-Saint-Denis and elsewhere in the national territory, with single people, fragile families and isolated women on the streets. I therefore ask you, Minister, to honour your commitments. The Government must continue to provide financial support to all shelters and associations that are able to remain open. Last Thursday, you regretted before the senators the reduction of 5 euros in the amount of APLs decided by the Government in 2017. Bravo! To avoid further regrets in the future, I think it is useful to act now to put an end to this scandal of street placements, which are actually in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u29	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u30	With regard to emergency accommodation, since the beginning of the confinement we have requisitioned a large number of hotel rooms and opened nearly 22000 additional places. Last night – the figures are so astronomical that they become difficult to conceive of – it was almost 180,000 people that the state, with the support of the communities and associations, sheltered. 180000, this unfortunately shows the state of impoverishment of a large number of people living in our territory. In the face of this, what should be done? First of all, I say again, there must be no dry shed on the street. Why am I saying that? Because with the resumption of activity, some hoteliers need to find the hotel rooms that we had requisitioned. But when a hotel picks up rooms for this reason, the instruction given is very clear: you must avoid any dry return to the street, which is always a human tragedy. This is followed with great precision, particularly in the framework of a very close steering committee made up of all the anti-poverty associations; It meets, under my presidency, more than once a week since the beginning of the crisis. The second essential element – on which, I know, we all find ourselves – is that, when someone is in an emergency shelter, we must do everything, not for it to remain, at the risk that he will unfortunately one day return to the street, but that he will get away with housing. In two years, we have managed to bring out of a very precarious habitat nearly 150,000 people thanks to this housing policy first, in line with a political project strongly supported by the Fondation Abbé Pierre and many associations. These are our two pillars: an accompaniment to avoid any return to the street and housing policy first. That's the only way we can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u31	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u32	Five million French people live in overoccupied housing; More than 9 million of them live below the poverty line and there have been almost 500,000 more unemployed since the beginning of this crisis. While on the ground, associations, local authorities and HLM donors have continuously mobilized throughout the period of confinement, these alarming figures must now guide a fairer, more supportive and more responsive housing policy. You recalled, Minister: a premium has been paid for 4 million households and the role of the solidarity funds for housing has indeed been strengthened, which is to be welcomed. But the unprecedented wave of redundancies that await us when we return home, and the resources of the self-employed, who are often already disadvantaged, who are in the process of collapsing, require additional measures. The unpaid rents risk exploding and with them the rental evictions. Already, on a daily basis, we see new arrivals in the tens of camps. You know well: there is not only the virus that kills, there is also the street. If we don't want to relive the time of the great slums of Nanterre, we have to react, and quickly. In a letter dated 23 April, we proposed with thirty-five of my colleagues to postpone the end of the winter truce in October – which amounts to a white year regarding rental evictions, as was said a moment ago – and to increase the owners' compensation credits to anticipate payment difficulties. As you know, postponing the winter truce is not enough: if the owners are not compensated by the state, the prefects will have to carry out the evictions. We also proposed to transfer this budget from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Housing, in order to create a zero-expulsion fund. The Government would thus be in a position to provide relief and, where necessary, to finance social support for tenants. Since our mail has not yet received a reply, we would like to know your opinion on the creation of this fund. We could also, on the model of auto insurance, create mandatory insurance for owners in the face of the risks of unpaid rents, and thus end the discrimination on file to stay in the private park. What do you think about this question? Finally, we sent you a report several months ago within the framework of the National Habitat Council – CNH – making proposals to make our cities more accessible. Have you read about it? What is your opinion on these proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u33	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u34	With regard to your first question, as I said, neither my hand nor that of the majority have trembled since on two occasions we have shifted the end of the winter truce. The next deadline is 10 July. There are two options available to us: to extend the winter truce again, or to maintain a sufficient number of places to avoid a dry return to the street. This debate is still ongoing, particularly with associations. This is a political debate, which we need to have. If the first option, the extension of the winter truce, is retained, it must be coupled with a strengthening of the donor compensation fund. Of course, this fund exists, but we must ensure that it is up to the needs, because if the State recedes the end of the winter truce, therefore does not require the use of the police even if there is a court decision, it bears a responsibility, and therefore will have to compensate the donors. On this point, my position is very clear. I come to another point of your question. Any social project is first and foremost a matter of accompaniment. To bounce back on my reply to Mr Corbière, on housing policy first, we must rely on accompaniment towards housing. I would like to draw your attention to a very important fund that we have agreed with the social donors in the amount of EUR 15 million. It has a technical name: the FNAVDL – National support fund to and in housing. Established at the beginning of the year, but little used because of the confinement, it must allow this accompaniment. The third element is the guarantee of unpaid rents, which we have been working on for a long time. We have already made progress, notably with the Visale guarantee – a visa for housing and employment – which is a great success for all under 30 years old. Hundreds of thousands of young people benefited last year. Should we go further? I'm open to everything; In particular, we had discussions with MP Mickaël Nogal in connection with the mission I entrusted to him. These are debates we must have.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u35	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u36	The targets for reducing energy consumption in the building sector are set by 2023-2028 to achieve by 2050 the carbon neutrality of the new SNBC – a national low carbon strategy. They must not be eternal targets. The group Ecology Democracy Solidarity therefore wishes to draw your attention to one point which we believe is essential: that of eco-responsible research. Energy renewal must focus on the development of bio-sourced materials and efficiency techniques, such as air-heat pumps, and the search for air quality. This would reduce the environmental impact of renovations. Let us take advantage of the health imperative, because there is still a lot of unhealthy housing and heat sinks, to drive and consider the renovation as a source of future savings, but above all as a source of innovation and long-term well-being. It will also be necessary to build a little differently, because the containment has reinforced the demand for apartments with outdoor spaces – balconies, terraces – and common qualitative and green spaces. But it's hard to do this without increasing prices. The whole industry should therefore get on with it and make new proposals. It would be up to the Government to set out its terms of reference. On the other hand, private research, according to an excellent rating from OPECST – Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices – indicates that the construction sector generates an annual turnover of 130 billion in France and allocates only about 0.1 to 0.2% of this amount to research, compared with an average of 2% in the other sectors. Let us build on a new dynamic and make the choice of massaging research-related budgets. Finally, the Government's consumer priority is an excellent initiative. We have multiplied the instruments: eco-loan at zero rate, "My Prime Renovation", etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u37	The problem is the rest of it. As long as he stays high, the bonus won't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u38	These renovation measures have a very long-term return on investment. Therefore, energy suppliers and energy-renovation solutions should be targeted with a dual objective: to reduce prices for consumers and to improve the quality of the renovation. Minister, is eco-responsible research in the building part of your support for economic recovery?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u40	The answer is yes, and I thank you for asking the question because it is too few. In fact, in the actions that have been funded by "My Prime Renovation" since January 1, 2020, there are the ventilation topics you mentioned. The second element requires a great deal of attention: you are right, in the area of building and housing, that the percentage of the wealth created each year for research is quite low, perhaps lower than in many other sectors of our economy. It must also be said that such a percentage is observed in all countries of the world. This means that if we choose to invest in building research, we take a step ahead of many of them. So, for many of our companies, we are also creating an advantage that will allow them to sell their technologies abroad. This is true, for example, in the digital field and in the interconnection between connected objects. Many subjects are open: the very important question of erasure, which had been debated in this Chamber by the former Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs François Brottes, or that of home automation, which is considerable, because housing can become, thanks to a new use, a tool to accompany the carers. A third element is to give free rein to the new nuggets. Exactly two years ago, I asked the CSTB – the Scientific and Technical Centre for Building, a large state body dedicated to construction – to create within it a business incubator to cross new technologies, new nuggets with the more agreed thinking and to bring out new solutions. We have done so, and the construction fairs that are currently being held present a florileg of these new technologies, which we must support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u41	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u42	The covid-19 epidemic has immediate and very serious consequences for housing: an economic and social crisis is ahead of us and we do not always measure the extent of it. We know, however, that we have entered into recession and that many households, especially in metropolitan areas, are experiencing great difficulties, particularly in paying their rent. It is necessary to think both of them, because they must keep themselves in their homes, and of the owners, especially the small owners, who want to collect their rent, because that is how they finance their retirement. I think it is necessary to work on a guarantee fund for the payment of rents, to reassure the owners, especially the small owners, and to protect the tenants, especially in the big cities. As we see in Paris, this concern thrives, it is legitimate and must be addressed in detail. How can I do that? What levers operate? It will be necessary to rely on local authorities, starting with the major cities, such as the city of Paris, of which I am a member. How can the state invest with these communities to keep these populations in their homes, who risk losing purchasing power or even losing their jobs? How can he keep them at the heart of our metropolises, so that the economic and social crisis is not due to social diversity, and so that all, small owners and tenants alike, are protected, the time that the country moves forward and returns to growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u43	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u44	You are a thousand times right not to oppose tenants and owners. For years, housing policy has died from this sterile opposition. Contrary to an idea received, many are modest owners. I was asked at the beginning of the session whether a moratorium on individual rents should be imposed on all French people? At the outset, I replied that this approach is not the right one because it would result in a considerable problem throughout the housing sphere, including for modest owners who need to collect rents. I am thinking in particular of the modest pensioners who have devoted their savings to the purchase of a dwelling whose rent is an indispensable additional income for them. The solution to this problem lies in the individualised support of fragile people. Just as owners and tenants should not be opposed, individual support must also be guaranteed for all fragile categories: leaving those who suffer to live under the threat of losing their homes amounts to a violation of their dignity. I have acted decisively to ensure that this accompaniment takes place. First of all, we have ensured the formation of accompanying cells in social housing; I have also deployed two funding lines to ensure that social donors grant deferrals, moratoria and other measures where appropriate. It is the human nature of the approach that matters. For the private park, we created the SOS platform unpaid rents, number 0805160075, which is based on the remarkable work of the professionals of the ANIL, the National Agency for Housing Information. They are able to find the appropriate accompanying solutions on a case-by-case basis so that tomorrow is no more difficult than today. Such accompaniment is necessary; This is what I am fighting for every day so that the protection you call your vows, Mr. MP, will take shape in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u45	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u46	As a will, Abbé Pierre wrote the following words: "On my grave, instead of flowers and crowns, bring me lists of thousands of families, thousands of little children to whom you could give the keys to real housing." Take the concrete example of a family of four people living in social housing in the 13th arrondissement of Paris. It pays a rent of 1200 euros for a housing of 70 square meters. To these monthly fees are added some 1000 euros of annual expenses for condominiums, as well as costs related to current consumptions. With the small wages we imagine, more than half of the household budget is spent on housing. Every year, the building's old age increases and the costs increase. The insulation is no longer efficient and the amount of electricity bills is blazing. At the same time, rent is revised upwards and state aid decreases. With the health crisis, the risk of unemployment appears and the solvency of this family is threatened. To counter such situations, a green recovery is needed. By green recovery, I mean a massive investment plan for the rehabilitation of social housing – a plan for tenants to live in a better environment and pay less, a plan for small and medium-sized enterprises that will fill their order books, a plan for employment, and finally, because the building sector was the third person seeking partial unemployment during confinement and it will need this momentum to bounce back. What is the Government's plan, Minister? Last year, EUR 1 billion was provided for under the voluntary investment plan, but, unless it is wrong, they will not be spent due to the insufficient number of files. We have been talking about billions and billions for our citizens for 30 years. What is the situation in practice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u47	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u48	The objective is clear: a green deal for the renovation of the building must be launched without reservation. You have explained perfectly why this will benefit households first and foremost by reducing their costs and improving the comfort of housing. Confinement has shown that it is very different to provide for the education of children in old housing and in renovated housing. We must therefore put the package on this objective. Secondly, social housing must play a major role because it constitutes about half of the rental stock and because social donors are important donors, which we must accompany. From this point of view, let us first of all remember that in terms of energy renovation, the social park is often ahead of the private park; This must be said because social housing actors are sometimes pointed out while they are already doing a considerable amount of work in this area. Then, all the commitments made under the ANRU, the National Agency for Urban Renewal, must be respected: 10 billion euros have been committed, the contracts are signed and all that remains to be done is the works, the first cranes having arrived just before the confinement. In other words, work, worth EUR 10 billion, will be started in the coming months. I come to the plan to support the social donors that you are talking about, Mr President. We are committed to increasing the number of social housing renovations by 25 per cent. That is what we need to do by relying on the financing of the Bank of Territories and Housing Action. We have a lot of funding available to support this renovation. In short, the green deal for the renovation of housing, especially in the social park, is possible and, moreover, all the actors want it. The discussions are under way and we will, because we have no choice: we owe it to the inhabitants and it will benefit the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u49	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u50	In addition to the health crisis, the social crisis has hit hard: partial unemployment has resulted in wage cuts often higher than the 14% to 16% announced, temporary employment has suddenly stopped, as has the informal economy, and unemployment is rising – we are told that there are very worrying figures. In recent years, however, housing has been the first – forced – budget item for households. I have sent you many proposals in written questions to help tenants and owners in difficulty; I'm not going back and I'm going to focus on one of them. You proposed the contemporaneization of APLs. With many associations, I echoed the concerns raised by this initiative, because you announced, at the key to this contemporaneization, 1 million profits for the state budget, which is why we suspected that this was mainly a measure of a budgetary nature and not of social justice. I'm telling you, though, I'm pissing you off! The social crisis is expected to be very harsh. The contemporaneization, scheduled for 1 January, was initially postponed until 1 April before being postponed. Are you ready, Minister – you must be technically – to implement this measure so that the calculation of LPAs will immediately take into account income reductions so as not to aggravate the difficulties of the families who suffer them and will suffer them in the weeks and months to come? In short, I say yes to contemporaneization, especially for households whose incomes are going to fall. Are you ready to take this step right now?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u51	So you're in favour of the measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u53	The answer is yes, archi-yes. However, it is singular that many now defend this reform for which I have fought so hard, by insisting systematically – as you will verify in the proceedings – on two points. First, it is not the budget that guides the policy, but the policy that guides the budget. Secondly, I remember saying to the same micro that this reform was obviously easier to do in times of massive job creation and global household enrichment, but that it was even more necessary in the event of a reversal of the trend – which I did not wish to do – because it would provide a safety net for the French. In policy, coherence is the top priority. Again, I say yes and archi-yes: this reform will take place. She's already ready; I had to launch it on March 15 for an entry into force on April 1. The director of CNAF, the National Fund of Family Allowances, whose teams I commend who have done fantastic work, asked me to postpone this date because the reform requires support by the agents of the fund, who, of course, have been put to the test throughout the period of confinement, including to ensure the continuity of social support. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] A decree was therefore issued requiring me to implement this reform before the end of the year; My goal – I cannot be clearer – is to achieve this by the autumn, because it is even more important in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u54	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u55	What other sequence could have better illustrated how much housing is an essential asset? Tens of millions of French have been confined for several weeks, measuring even more the right of housing, but also the requirement of quality and comfort – as you mentioned, Mr.Minister – that it requires and the cost it represents. This basic necessity requires you to take strong decisions to relaunch public policy on social housing. In addition to the urgent proposal put forward by Mr Peu, we ask you to consider re-establishing the reduced VAT rate to 5.5% for all investments by HLM organisations in the production of new housing, including integrated rental loans, PLAI, which meet the needs of low-income households, as well as the renovation of not only energy but also – as several colleagues have said – with a view to adapting the existing park to the social aspirations – for example of the elderly – and environmental ones. This decision could usefully be accompanied by an increase – you referred to it, Minister, but I would like clarification – of the funding for urban renewal in the framework of the ANRU, whether it be housing or outdoor spaces – which Mrs Tuffnell rightly mentioned – and of their vegetation, their environmental contribution, their wide-ranging urban character. The health crisis was experienced very unevenly according to the housing conditions of the households. Are there a few lines of action already envisaged in the direction I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u57	As regards the continuity of support to social donors, first of all, we will have the debate during the examination of the finance bill to determine how to guarantee it, through VAT or other arrangements. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the president of the OPH federation, the public housing offices, called me a few days ago to tell me: if we had wanted to develop a tool to deal with the crisis, none of them would have been better than the system of participatory titles that you, at his initiative, examined and adopted here. I am not going into the details, but the experts on social housing you are, honourable Member, know why this mechanism is essential or even life-saving for some offices in the current period. This is a very positive measure, so much so that if we were to reach an amount of securities of the order of 450 million euros during the year, this amount will rather exceed 1 billion, because I have asked the Bank of the Territories to do everything possible in this area to accompany the social donors as best as possible. VAT has already been reduced for integration aided rental loans – PLAI – and social rental loans – PLUS – renovation. Then we finalized the contract of 10 billion euros with the ANRU, whose team I salute, led by Olivier Klein and Nicolas Grivel. It is now appropriate that cranes return to the neighbourhoods to use this EUR 10 billion, which, with the co-financing of local authorities, represents a huge potential for work. Finally, there is the subject, which is particularly close to your heart, of degraded condominiums, against which you have fought so hard in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray. The appropriations are not included in these two budgets, but in that of the ANAH, which I am piloting: we will spend 3 billion euros to improve and absorb the immense degraded condominiums – we have one leading in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray –, an action absolutely indispensable. The line is clear, and I can assure you that we will continue our action with great strength!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u58	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u59	In addition to health consequences, the epidemic of covid-19 has had, has and will have a considerable impact on the economy and the social fabric. In order to help our most isolated fellow citizens, affected by the reduction of economic activity or the increase in food expenditure, in particular because of the closure of school canteens, many aids have been granted. Persons with active solidarity income, RSA, or the allowance for adults with disabilities, AAH, were able to benefit from it, thanks to the financing of meal baskets, given by associations, or through the distribution of service tickets. While these very close actions have played a key role, the significant increase in the number of emergency places and the postponement of the end of the winter truce to 10 July should not be neglected, as they have participated in the containment of the epidemic, by allowing as many of our fellow citizens as possible to remain confined when the virus spread. However, the resumption of activity has marked the reduction of some State aid, and rental evictions will resume on 10 July. These could be more numerous than in previous years, as the economic crisis looks strong. Humanitarian associations, already in high demand during the epidemic, may not be able to help all homeless people if they are too numerous. What measures do you envisage to limit the number of evictions due to the economic crisis, which is itself a consequence of the health crisis? Will the thousands of emergency places open during the crisis be sustained?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u61	You mentioned several devices that I had put in place, without ever having ever imagined having to give such instructions. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have requisitioned nearly 22,000 places in hotels for those who needed them. Thus, 180,000 people were sheltered. For the first time, my department printed service cheques, i.e. food vouchers, for 90,000 people a day. I commend the work done by associations and communities on our side: since the beginning of the crisis, we have opened 90 specialized accommodation centres, which accommodate homeless people affected by the covid -19, but whose condition does not require hospitalization. We are looking at ways to extend these devices. I have set three objectives. The first is to do everything possible to limit the spread of the virus: many questions of health security arise, on which the associations are doing remarkable work. The second is to avoid any dry storage on the street, obviously before, but also after 10 July. I went over the measurements, but a few days ago I sent out very clear instructions to all the prefects, in order to avoid the slightest dry break to the street. The last objective is based on housing policy first: if a hotelier returns to his establishment to resume his activity, a solution must be found, on the basis of social assessment, so that people find permanent accommodation. Indeed, to break the infernal spiral, housing policy must first be applied. These are the three pillars that will continue to underpin my action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u62	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u63	The health crisis facing our country has not left the housing sector untouched. The construction sites were shut down for two months, as a result of containment rules, resulting in additional costs and delays in delivery. The Government has been working for their speedy recovery, which I welcome. However, while 83 per cent of construction sites had resumed on 1 June, only 53 per cent had a normal level of activity. But like any crisis situation, this is also an opportunity for the housing sector. The energy renovation of buildings reduces energy bills, fights thermal colanders, promotes local employment and works to combat climate change. The ELAN Act of 23 November 2018 set ambitious targets for reducing the energy consumption of tertiary buildings by 60% in 2050, based on 2010. It seems essential that the project recovery plan combines a long-term ecological vision with strong short-term measures for the economic recovery of the housing construction sector. I am thinking in particular of energy saving certificates, but also of the obligation to draw up a multi-annual work plan for buildings over fifteen years old, which unfortunately is not included in the order of 31 October 2019 made under the ELAN law. The Government has already issued an order extending the blows to insulation and heating to 31 December 2021. It has also extended the "heating" offer to condominiums. However, it is possible to improve the devices. What is envisaged to further encourage the construction sector, as part of its resumption of activity, to build greener housing and to renovate old housing? What is the longer-term plan to accelerate the ecological transition of housing, in order to achieve the objectives of the energy renovation plan for buildings?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u64	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u65	I know your involvement in these matters, Madam Member: my answer will not be exhaustive, but it cannot be in two minutes. We give priority to the "My Prime Renovation" scheme, because it has the considerable advantage of giving an immediate boost. We must continue to grow "My Prime Renovation"! We have also created new tax arrangements, to which I am very attached, such as the "Denormandie in the old", which allows two hundred and forty-four municipalities to host investors in housing renovations. The parliamentary majority has simplified the use of the system. There is also a need to fill the snowshoe holes, particularly the exclusion of the owners-beakers of "My Prime Renovation": do we have to give them access to the device? How do we accompany them? This topic is all the more essential since it is often one of the poor parents of energy renewal policies. In addition, how can we support condominiums more? With the guard of the seals, we have already renovated their regulations, but do we have to go further? There is still the subject, which you mentioned in your question, of multi-year work plans – PPT: it seems to me necessary to continue to accompany the general meetings of condominiums in order to encourage the realization of works. Here are a few leads, which we could discuss in more detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u66	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u67	In our country, only 6 per cent of the dwellings of retired persons have been adapted to their needs. However, during confinement, we found that many elderly people were forced to live in an interior unsuitable for their health. We are particularly affected by the plight of seniors, because they have been very hit by the health crisis and because a large majority of them aspire to stay in their homes for as long as possible. Home design works consist of turning a bathtub into a shower, installing a bedroom on the ground floor, changing a floor covering, carrying out a home automation installation, for example that of a bright road at night to be able to move around. These adjustments are sometimes difficult to implement. It is time to deploy an ambitious home policy for the benefit of seniors. We will soon be looking at a plan to boost the economy, especially for the construction sector: what are the priorities and priorities of your action to promote the adaptation of the housing of the elderly, a population to which we are very attached?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u69	Thank you for raising this very important issue for our fellow citizens, on which France is lagging behind its neighbours. In other words, there are fewer suitable housing units in France than in other European countries. We have a real societal challenge to face, but there is no reason why we cannot do better. ANAH made 18,000 housing adaptations in 2019, with the aim of achieving 25,000 by 2020. We will then have to go even further. Some people have called me "Jacob Delafon" of the Government, a title that does not bother me because the subject is dear to me, after I launched the massive first plan of turning baths into Italian showers. We have drawn up this plan with the social partners, in particular Action Logement, and we have planned to earmark a budget line of EUR 1 billion to finance the transformation of 200000 baths into showers. The device has been operating since the beginning of the year, even though the covid-19 has slowed down its deployment. Currently, 10,000 records of the transformation of a bathtub into a shower are being trained. That all persons of a certain age who have lost their autonomy and those who have suffered at birth or later a life accident go to the Housing Action website to learn about this beautiful policy of turning bathtubs into showers. We will fund 200,000 transformations. Finally, I entrusted Mr. Denis Piveteau and Mr. Jacques Wolfrom, who are well-known in the area of inclusive housing, with the task of making proposals on the subject. They will submit their report to the Prime Minister in fifteen days: I pledge to convey it to you, Mr.Martin, because I know your commitment to this matter. We will study the suggested avenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u70	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u71	The health crisis we are experiencing will lead to an unprecedented economic and social crisis. In the economic recovery plan, the State must support the acceleration of the thermal insulation of buildings and the reduction of fossil energy heating. In addition to a lever to improve the purchasing power of the French, this is a huge pool of jobs serving the ecological transition. For example, the law of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth estimated that 126,000 jobs would be devoted to the renovation of thermal colanders by 2025. The acceleration of thermal insulation and the reduction of fossil energy heating also represent a major response to global warming: in Île-de-France, 34% of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions come from housing, the main cause of emissions in front of transport. In view of the sectoral stimulus plans, which will be presented shortly, we expect a strong initiative to address the challenges of energy renewal, as ambitious as the conversion of the automotive industry to the electric car, presented by the President of the Republic. Many obstacles remain, particularly in condominiums, which are struggling to agree to work because of their cost and strong heritage constraints. What budget can you unblock and what additional measures can you take to encourage condominiums to take action?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u72	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u73	Mr Rupin, thank you for your question. It deals with a subject that you know well, and which you have been interested in for a long time: how to accompany, in urban fabric, the energy transformation of condominiums? In many cities, it is not satisfactory. It requires several challenges, and is certainly the poor parent of public policy for many years. Faithful to what we believe in, we must act with great courage. First, there is a need to amend the legislation applicable to condominiums. We started to act. I will spare you the details, which you know, and will merely mention the mechanism of the bridge – the experts see what it is – which allows to speed up decision-making. We need to go even further, for example in the framework of the multi-annual work plan which I mentioned earlier, and which we must implement. Secondly, it is necessary to provide financial support for condominiums. The complexity of the problem arises from the fact that, by definition, a condominium brings together several households whose financial capacity is not identical. To go further, we have tried to determine how to make more easily accessible to co-owners certain aids paid by ANAH, such as My Prime Renovation and Habiter Better. On the other hand, we also wondered whether the co-ownership could sometimes finance the energy renovation work, in addition to the co-owner, which makes it possible to amortize their cost in the longer term. Pascal Canfin has worked extensively on this subject. This is one of the very concrete avenues that deserve to be explored, in order to accelerate the energy renewal of condominiums. More generally, I would like to point out that the energy renovation of the building must be a pillar of recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u74	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u75	Minister, the health crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic and the related confinement period have severely exacerbated the housing inequalities between the French. Every citizen is entitled to have a roof; However, our country has more than 4 million malhousers, as well as 7 million thermal colanders, in which the most modest households are forced to live. Since 2017, the majority has been working with you to bring solutions. In particular, the 2020 budget validated the creation of the Ma Prim Renovation Facility, which aims to simplify the energy renewal of housing while reducing the remaining burden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u76	It's still too important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u77	Within the framework of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, we have obtained that this premium can finance the overall and efficient renovations, in order to consolidate the effects. The health crisis threatens the efforts undertaken, at the risk of keeping too many French people in precarious condition. Yet energy renewal – this is our conviction – is a powerful lever for economic and ecological recovery. As such, I would like to point out that there are successes in our territory, including the development of eco-neighbourhoods, including the Grand Coudoux, located in my constituency and distinguished by your ministry. They are, in my view, effective tools for the sustainable and concerted development of our communes. How does the Government intend to relaunch and accelerate the energy transition of the housing stock in order to improve its efficiency and sustainability?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u79	Mr Zulesi, thank you for referring to the Ma Prime Renovation scheme, which is the subject of many debates. I remember several criticisms, one of which, formulated by a former minister of ecology, was to call the suppression of ISCED a scandal – decided by the majority of whom you are a member and in which you have worked a great deal to that end. The reality is quite different: we have not abolished ISCED, but transformed it into a bonus. Why did we do that? Of course, the process was complex. Work was needed to reach the new system. Together with my colleagues Élisabeth Borne and Emmanuelle Wargon, we have succeeded. Previously, 10% of ISCED aid went to the most modest 50 % of households, meaning that 90 % of the aid went to the least modest 50 % of households. From now on, 50 % of the aid goes to the most modest 50 % of households. Thus, we are completely rebalancing access to aid, to the benefit of the most modest public, as we were trying to do. Let us never forget: if we want to accelerate the energy renewal of housing, we have to meet two conditions: an improved accompaniment – I remind you that the number 0808800700 allows us to join the platform FAIRE, bringing together professionals who carry out an excellent job – and a reduction of the rest, which My Prime renov' allows, because it avoids the interested parties to receive their help with a year of delay. In complex situations, simple ideas must be put forward. Let us continue to make progress, with this dual objective: to improve the support of households and to reduce their remaining burden. That is how we will succeed. Since 1 January, 40,000 applications for Ma Prime Renovation have been submitted – according to figures from the end of May. Far from the caricatures brushed by some, including a former minister of ecology, the deployment of this bonus has a real reality, especially social, for which you have fought, Mr Zulesi, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u80	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u81	Minister, at the last question-and-answer session in the Government, I raised the issue of the additional costs arising from the health rules applicable to the building sector. Your colleague Bruno Le Maire has informed us that you will consider, in the context of the third amending finance bill, how to take charge of them. They can lead to productivity losses of between 25% and 30% per site.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u82	Yes, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u83	Very concretely, what means of care do you envisage? If we really want to relaunch the projects, a clear answer from you is necessary. Recovery is being done now, without further delay! Your colleague also mentioned the reduction in production taxes. Very concretely and very precisely, what do you envisage for the building sector? In the short term, in order to deal with some of the additional costs caused by the health crisis, do you intend to reduce VAT until the relevant obligations are lifted, to extend energy performance certificates, to amend public order rules to favour local companies? You are planning a €4.5 billion support plan for local authorities, including a mechanism to offset actual revenue losses, a smoothing of crisis-induced expenditure and an advance fund on transfer fees for consideration – DMTO – to support departments. If these measures go in the right direction, they are insufficient. How will this plan enable local and regional authorities to support building and public works? To restart the activity, new orders are needed. The new mayors of my constituency of Meurthe-et-Moselle, whom I meet now that they are settled, legitimately question: will they get new state aid to place orders this summer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u84	It's indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u85	A simple mechanism, accessible to all municipalities, intended to finance orders for new projects in the short term, would enable the activity to be relaunched effectively. Will these be very restrictive criteria for projects that can be delayed this year? If that is the case, the sharp increase in the allocation of support for local investment – DSIL – will not contribute to the expected recovery in the short term, quite the contrary! The danger is there. There is a need for clear, responsive and timely responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u86	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u88	Mr Bazin, since you are talking about recovery, I would like to share with you – I am surprised you have not said anything – the latest figures on housing published, covering the three months preceding the covid-19 pandemic. They show that the recovery of housing was there: the number of town planning permits had increased by 10% compared to the same period in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u89	Authorization is not worth delivery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u90	I would like to remind you of these figures, because I have often heard you say in this House that we are not witnessing a momentum but a slowdown. The numbers speak for themselves, and I am pleased to remind you of them orally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u91	What about the collapse of reservations?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u92	With regard to the accompaniment of the construction sites, you are a thousand times right about the two points you are referring to. There is a need to address the problem of incremental costs, which has several aspects. In reality, everything depends on the mastery of the work; if it is public, the construction site is supported; If it is private, the issue to be resolved is the allocation of the additional costs. Above all, I was asked not to legislate on the relationship between each other. In any event, I have a technical dialogue on the measures to be taken. With regard to support for recovery by local authorities, I note that the government to which I belong, as well as the majority supporting it, have from the outset decided to increase the allocations of local authorities, as announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. It seems to me that in 2008 and 2009, the Government, which was of a political colour in which you register, did the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u93	You've become a real politician, it's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u94	We have to look ahead!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u95	I do not know if it is the return of experience of a bad decision or the wisdom of the current majority that inspires you. In any event, you are right on one point: it is absolutely necessary to put the package in order to ensure that the orders resume, in particular through the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u96	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u97	The health crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic revealed that many French people want to go green. Many of our fellow citizens have left the metropolises to confine themselves to the countryside, and want to stay there for a long time. Others have experienced confinement in the metropolis, and want to leave for a better living environment. What if the real environmental turning point was to reconsider the value of campaigns, synonymous with authentic nature? And if we now see the high quality of use of housing, which involves real outdoor spaces, rather than their high environmental quality, which has too much tendency to value confined and compact spaces, which can cause health problems, for example in the case of controlled mechanical ventilation – VMC – poorly maintained, and above all to induce ill-being, through the ill-inhabitant? Shouldn't a more proactive land-use policy be pursued, particularly by speeding up the implementation of the New Deal Mobile?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u98	He's been very late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u99	The pace at which it is deployed is not enough to cover, by 2022, the many villages in our territories without good mobile coverage. In my only constituency of Meurthe-et-Moselle, dozens of villages still suffer. Minister, many French people dream of a house in the countryside. Will you meet their expectations by changing your housing policy, which aims to concentrate aid on the hyper-centres of the metropolises? This would avoid raising the price of land in metropolitan areas and make it possible to make certain households solvent, thus making it possible to carry out projects in relaxed areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Will you accompany home ownership in the campaigns through an expansion of the zero-rate loan and a re-establishment of the accession LPA? Are you planning to deploy planned habitat improvement operations in the rural intercommunal areas that have not yet benefited from them, to support renovations and accessibility of existing housing? While the recovery plan is on the horizon, I campaign for the campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u100	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u101	Mr Bazin, I sign your call: I too campaign for the campaign, and a thousand times!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u102	You live in Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u103	It's not a flaw!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u104	That's why he's the city's minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u105	It is enough to be convinced of this to look at the public policies initiated over the past three years, in particular the programme "Action coeur de ville", which helps 222 cities, and almost 400 if we add the operations of revitalization of the territories – ORT. For decades, no policy had been pursued in favour of centralities, which I have always fought for. With regard to the New Deal Mobile,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u106	We need to speed it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u107	We need to keep speeding it up. Mr Bazin, I thank you for reminding you that it was necessary for the state to change its paradigm, and to put an end to this madness of raising the operators to the coconut tree by asking them for more and more revenue from the budget, which our campaigns ended up suffering. By reversing the mechanism, we were able to make them make a commitment to ensure the coverage of the territory – we will have time to discuss this subject in detail – which works very well in certain aspects. One issue remains: the so-called "targeted coverage" component, relating to the installation of new towers; But in terms of new technologies, this policy has worked very well. Third point, which I was working on this morning again: the new uses. It seems to me that you are raising a fundamental question – I fully agree with this approach – that housing must be approached from the point of view of use. That's the right approach! In terms of energy renewal, it was a matter of years – I was working on this subject ten years ago – of demonstrating that the economic equation was going to encourage the French to do the necessary work. It seems to me that the right approach – without denying that it is necessary – is based on the principle that it is always the use that encourages work. For my part, I believe much more in the accompaniment of comfort and the usefulness of housing than in the economic accompaniment, which must take place at the end of the process, in order to make it possible. I'm convinced it all starts with usage. In the area of land use planning – I was trained in this, I did my studies in this field, I worked on it – I am certain, and do not doubt that you will agree, that usage guides everything. Mr Bazin, I fully agree with this view. Let's campaign for the campaign together! Join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u108	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u109	Renovation of one-euro housing, the My Prime Renovation scheme is a great idea. But how can we protect consumers from too many subsidising scams, carried out by so-called craft companies, to say the least indelicate? While many artisans do their work very well, unfortunately there are also those who carry out works whose evils are quickly visible. How can a house be effectively isolated if the work is carried out by a professional who is not concerned with safety? At the very least, the current system for the suppression of fraud in the field of artisanal work is ineffective, owing to a lack of resources. What solutions are available to victims of malfeasance, often low-income households, while their losses often amount to several months of salary or retirement pension? To turn to justice is to endure months, even years of anguish, endless expectations. It is also a costly process. In short, it is an almost luxurious expenditure that the most vulnerable, especially among our seniors, cannot afford. On the other hand, referring to the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – could be a solution. I relay, I systematically support the documented fraud complaint files that my officials share with me in this direction, under the authority of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Unfortunately, since the beginning of my term of office, I have only had one return from an investigation completed by the DGCCRF, helping an elderly lady, blurred by a so-called dishonest craftsman. I have been told by sorry officers that, due to lack of resources, the DGCCRF cannot investigate all the cases before it. The State must remedy this situation; He cannot abandon the victims of scams, who feel a deep sense of injustice and insecurity. I would be grateful if you could find a solution to this situation, which is worsening month after month. I thank you here for the figures reported by the specialized press.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u110	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u111	Thank you for your very fair comments on the fact that a few very minority Malfrats come to cast suspicion on all our artisans, while they do in their vast majority a formidable job. In the face of this phenomenon, there are two ways: the one, as you have mentioned, of post-control by DGCCRF; But there's another one we're pursuing. Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Emmanuelle Wargon and I had mentioned at the beginning of the year a struggle against these drifts, which we intend to carry out in three different ways. First of all, we need to review the RGE label – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – and the criteria for obtaining it; we have agreed with all the professional federations. Next, we need to review the rules for granting the label: consider that before, it was the applicant operator who indicated to the authority awarding the label which of its construction sites had to be checked! We were at the crazy house. From now on, the projects audited will of course be randomly chosen by the firm that gives the label. Finally, a bill has been worked on a great deal by the MODEM group, in connection with the LaREM group, here in the National Assembly: it concerns the cessation of the abusive marketing on the telephone in the field of energy renovation. It also made everyone crazy, especially our elders, who could receive six, seven, eight calls a week on the subject! Senators voted on the bill last weekend. It will be a very important part of the triptych.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u112	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u113	In order to help the construction sector and boost housing construction, it is also necessary to help very small enterprises, which are often subcontractors. In many situations, and although payment rules have been improved, the payer pays at 60 days, while the supplier of the TPE is paid at 45 days. The necessary harmonisation of payment deadlines is still not there, and many TPEs and SMEs are victims. Moreover, insurers must play the game during the crisis of the covid-19, and this concerns in particular invoicing and payment insurers. Too many TPEs and SMEs are excluded from the benefit of the guarantee and credit insurance, for reasons that do not take into account this crisis of the covid -19, without notice, to the cold reading of financial situations yet historically sound: profits close to zero, but no debt. How many jobs will be sacrificed if many small businesses, which live but do not realize financial benefits, are denied the means to operate? How will building activity resume if a large number of subcontractors go bankrupt because they will be rated "passible" or worse, by insurance and banking analysts who are clearly not concerned with the economic support that must be given to FTEs and SMEs that have never failed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u114	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u115	The priority of the moment, on which Mr Bazin also insisted, is that not only the construction sites should go back, but also the order. In order to do this, all public and private contractors must mobilize. This will be one of the major challenges of the draft law on amending finance, particularly with regard to public procurement: it is necessary to prevent the construction sector from experiencing an air hole in the fall, and this must now be thought of. The role of local and regional authorities is essential, and they are very involved. The State must also be exemplary. As for the second part of your question, failure to comply with payment deadlines is indeed the poison of our country's economic activity: a very large number of company failures are the result. These questions are driven by Bruno Le Maire, of course, but I would like to draw your attention to some important devices. First of all, we must use credit mediation, such as corporate mediation – Pierre Pelouzet and his teams are doing a great job. Second, the role of credit insurers is essential for business support; The Minister of Economy is working on these issues. Finally, the State must, again, be irreproachable; This has not always been the case, and when I was with Minister of Economy Emmanuel Macron, we had published a list of principals who did not meet the payment deadlines well. Some were public.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u116	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u117	At the end of 2018, we were gathered here to vote for the famous Denormandie device, which came into effect in January 2019. It allows an investor to get a tax reduction if he or she buys and renovates a rental property in an old degraded neighbourhood. This tool is part of the policy of revitalisation of medium-sized cities; It must also allow for a wider energy renovation of buildings. It was rather well received in Mulhouse, a city particularly affected by the disaster, where half of the beneficiaries of the department's RSA live; It is also one of the only major cities in France where land is cheaper than in the towns of its periphery. Fragile audiences are particularly affected by energy insecurity. The importance of this issue has been further accentuated by containment: the energy mediator has recently published figures showing an explosion of unpaid bills for the past two months. Energy renovation of buildings, already a priority before the pandemic, is therefore even more crucial; The French need incentive mechanisms to carry out this expensive work. In April, you signed two decrees: the first expands the Denormandie scheme to cover the entire territory of the cities concerned; the second includes work that is no longer necessarily related to the energy performance of the property. If one understands the logic of amplification, do you not fear that this enlargement will lose sight of the initial ecological ambition? There is a great chance that the French will invest in other types of work than those that improve energy performance. More broadly, one year after its entry into force, did the French seize this mechanism, and to what extent?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u118	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u119	To answer your second question, you will have to wait for the 2019 tax data; We won't have them until autumn. So I cannot answer you precisely, but I see the enthusiasm of many developers and actors in housing. All cities that are implementing an operation to revitalise the territory, i.e. not far from 300 cities today, are eligible; In the long run, they will be 400 to 500. I also say to all private investors: invest in the old and revive the territories you love! Have happy defiscalization! The more we say it, the more we do it, the better the territories we love will be. You're kind of asking me if we've gone too far in simplification. My goal is for our devices to work! In 2019, we found that the criteria – restriction to city centres, limitation of eligible works – made the device too unreadable. So we corrected the shot: we simplified it, and extended it by one year. When you carry out a renovation, it is generally global, so also energy. So we're pushing for renovation. I say again: have the defiscalization happy by using this device to revive your territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u120	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u121	As French economic life gradually resumes its course, questions arise for us, as public authorities, about how we want to build the future. The fight against climate change, which had already begun during this legislature, was the subject of great expectations on the part of the French. So I chose to ask you about the future of construction in our country, and more specifically about eco-construction and the place of wood in the building of tomorrow. The timber sector has its full place in the decarbonisation objectives of the European Green Deal, which the Government is right to support ardently. It is at the crossroads of a sustainable, circular and local economy, and must be at the forefront of our real estate revival. For 16 million hectares of wood, this sector employs 440,000 people in France; By comparison, Germany employs one million people per 11 million hectares. These figures should not discourage us, but should make us aware of the tremendous potential of our country in terms of timber. Like northern European countries, for example, we need to develop our wood building culture. This will surely have to be done by adapting standards to this type of work, as well as by structuring the sector through strong investments and actions by the State. Making the wood industry succeed is a challenge for future generations, and it is essential for our environment. This deserves an interdepartmental approach. As far as your prerogatives are concerned, how can we put eco-construction at the heart of tomorrow's building design, in particular by leaving an important part of wood in future construction? This could also support recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u122	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u123	I am Minister of Housing, but I am also an engineer of water and forests, so I have a deep conviction of the importance of wood construction. I am convinced, as you do, that she is expected of our fellow citizens. Supporting wood construction poses a lot of questions; It forces a lot of habits and a lot of regulations to change. We did it through the ELAN law. In concrete terms, we have opened Pandora's box by ensuring that the famous regulations and guidelines of the E+C label take into account the entire life cycle of the material, thus reintroducing a significant advantage for wood construction. The challenge now is to ensure that the technical indices that will define the future RE2020 regulation are in full agreement with the wish expressed by the legislator in the framework of the ELAN law: the development of the life cycle of wood construction. This is a point that I monitor like milk on fire, because some habits and forces tend to defend other techniques. These must also be supported with great vigour, but I am convinced that bio-based construction, particularly wood construction, must be encouraged. So the big question, and I shall end with that, is whether, at the end of the cycle, wood emits CO. You know, you who follow this file, all the debates that there may be in this matter, but my position is clear: we must encourage bio-based construction, especially wood construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u124	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u125	First of all, I would like to stress the relevance of a post-covid-19 recovery plan targeted at the real estate sector. This is indeed one of the engines of our economy, which is restarting well, since, last week, 85% of the construction sites had resumed. This is also the main investment of the middle classes. Moreover, the crisis can be a real opportunity to adapt our real estate policy. In order to achieve this, the existing arrangements should be evaluated: it would be a mistake to increase the volume of investments without ensuring their effectiveness. As a former mayor, with a solid fifteen-year experience in the real estate sector, I know that needs are local and that national arrangements do not always meet them in the most appropriate way. There are boon effects and we sometimes subsidize projects that are contrary to national real estate objectives, by promoting urban sprawl. Let us recall the general observation: we lack housing. We seek to combat unworthy housing, to control prices and to help the poorest households. We spend €1.7 billion on housing tax schemes. But much of the aid for stone benefits only the most affluent 10%. These means must be better targeted, while the question of their limitation over time also arises with a view to increasing the incentive effect and reducing the impact of windfalls. In addition, I believe that zoning sometimes no longer corresponds to local realities. For example, in the Landes, the real estate market in some municipalities classified as B2 is very tense. Automatic aids often ignore local housing policies in terms of fine location, number and type of housing. It is therefore imperative that the recovery plan be focused on our priorities in terms of land use planning and ecological transition. Could we therefore consider locally controlled devices? And could we imagine that a quota of aid would be managed at local level, in line with national policies, in particular with a view to strengthening the core city action programme?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u126	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u127	By your question, you are asking me in an underlying way how to apply our public policies territorially. It is true that much remains to be done in the area of housing. By definition, existing policies are very national, because of the tools that accompany them, the main ones being the tax challenges and support, in the face of budgetary aid. We are trying to territorialise these policies, but it must be noted that cutting France into five does not constitute a genuine territorialisation. Thus, in one electoral district, only one area will, most often, be considered, even though there are very different realities. I therefore take the principle that we should have as our method of much more territorializing our public policies and, as you mentioned, the policy of action at the heart of the city is a fine example of this. When we launched it, with Jacques Mézard and then Jacqueline Gourault, our goal was to start from the projects of the territories and from nothing else. So we brought them up and asked ourselves how to help them. We have not done the opposite, and I believe that this is the logic we must follow. The same applies to the amenities that you refer to. Progress has already been made, with delegations of aid to the stone in the social or environmental field. But we must always, from a general point of view, rely on the territorial reality and the project rather than on the instrument. This is what we are going to continue to do with mechanisms such as city core action, and with fiscal measures such as the Pinel Breton experiment, which was voted last year during the review of the finance bill and which was launched this year. Of course, we do not yet know the results given the last six months that we have just lived, but I share your philosophy and the expectations you have expressed with your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u128	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u129	It seems to me, minister, that yesterday's certainties reinforce today's uncertainties. An ecological and social ultimatum resonates with this crisis and puts us in front of the need to give a new dimension to action. In addition to the social emergency, catalyzed by the crisis, there is the climate emergency. Building, this was recalled, accounts for 43% of final energy consumption in France and accounts for almost a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. The energy renovation of housing has long been identified as a major source of ecological benefits and, consequently, economic benefits, but also as a vehicle for social progress. Relaunching the economy at the same time as trust gives us the opportunity to prove to our fellow citizens that they can benefit from a return from energy insecurity. Before the health crisis, with my colleague Boris Vallaud and the support of the Socialist and related groups, we called for a new energy deal and the introduction of the climate premium, which alone would respond to social and ecological challenges by stimulating the local economy through the construction sector. The President of the Republic, too, called for humility and national unity in the next day. There is therefore no room for the political game of rejecting effective and innovative solutions if they are proposed by the opposition. The time has come to listen and to co-build; This is our responsibility for future generations. The climate premium should therefore be reviewed under another prism and, if necessary, improved. In the face of the challenges, this measure allows for a change of scale. This device is innovative and lifts the brakes of the rest at load. It is legible, universal, progressive, incentive and simple: that's all you want, you have recalled. Are you ready, Minister, to reconsider this proposal? It is the families and our elders who live in the cold and humidity that ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u130	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u131	As far as the climate premium is concerned, since I do not have all the details of the scheme in mind, I will not vote. But, in general, and I think you have understood this correctly, I believe that the acceleration of the energy renovation of buildings requires more simplicity and less burden. That is what we need to achieve and that is precisely what we have sought with the Ma Prime Renovation device. Indeed, the rest of the burden is stricken by the fact that it is necessary to wait a year and a half before receiving a tax credit. Such a negative effect on cash flow is impossible for many families. My Renovation Prime, which we launched on 1 January 2020, must enable us to achieve our two main objectives of achieving more simplicity and less burden. But I remain at your disposal, Mr. Member, to assess whether this object meets your expectations. We do not have any experience yet, but we know that by the end of May more than 40,000 files had been filed. Indeed, we hoped that, even during the confinement period, everything would remain open, that files could continue to be filed and investigated, and that funding would continue to be provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u132	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u133	A few days ago, the newspaper Libération wrote in its columns: "A viral desire to live in green. After two months of confinement, more and more urban dwellers, especially Parisians, said they wanted to make their move plan a reality. I also believe that the logic of metropolization has shown its limits with the health crisis. It leads peripheral territories to abandonment, while offering an unsustainable life in overconcentrated spaces. Indeed, this health crisis shows us that metropolitan risks, with a triple housing, transport and security crisis, are all the more proven. For tomorrow, then, we must direct our actions towards the balance of territories, in order to achieve a better quality of life for all. However, Minister, since the beginning of the legislature, the texts before us are intended only to try to adapt to these concentrations, by building ever higher and denser, by releasing land. They do not contradict these logics of concentration. Shouldn't we now need a demand shock in a relaxed area, instead of a supply shock in a tense area? This shock of demand could only occur through the development of activities, because it is work that freezes people and attracts others. Housing policies must therefore be formulated in line with economic policies. It is by helping the outlying territories to develop activities that they will be able to welcome the urban poor. I believe that two orientations can be pursued in parallel. The first is telework, to which many tasted during confinement. What do you propose for it to be organized from rural areas and in the depths of rural life, which is technically possible? The second is the development and creation of new activities in peripheral territories. What solutions do you propose to accompany these territories in this respect?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u135	I accept your expression of "request shock in relaxed territories." This very fine summary of what we need to accomplish overlaps with the formula I used earlier to answer Mr. Bazin: "Making a campaign for our campaigns. » For many years, it was said that there was Paris and the rest of France. Now we're talking about the metropolises and the rest of the national territory. For my part, I believe that we absolutely need to develop, beyond the metropolises, what I have called centrality points. That is why we launched this central city policy two years ago. Having said that, you mentioned two very important elements. The first is that we absolutely must have coupled policies. Indeed, if we want to densify, in the economic, cultural and demographic sense of the term, these points of centrality, we will need a policy of housing, industrial and economic networking. It is for this reason that we have made a rapprochement between the "Territories of Industry" initiative and the "City Action" programme, which, on the ground, is very often led by the same steering committees. The second is telework, which, for many of our citizens, is a revolution and which obviously requires that digital infrastructure be available – I do not go back to what I said earlier, but it is fundamental. In addition, I had asked, two years ago, the President of the Foundation to work differently on the emergence of third places, coworking spaces or teleworking spaces. It turns out that we held a meeting of the steering committee this morning, in the presence of nine ministers, including those of national education, labour, higher education, digital technology and ecological and solidarity transition, in addition to Jacqueline Gourault and myself. We see the tremendous growth of these third-places that we have been testing for two years and we want to continue to create, throughout the territory, these digital factories that – one of many – contribute to the development of the territories, to the campaign campaign, or to this call for a shock of demand. I believe deeply in this policy of secondary centralities, which I believe is of the utmost importance. Even more than yesterday, the small prefectures, the sub-prefectures, must be the lungs of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u136	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u137	My question is in line with several previous statements, including that of Jean-Louis Bricout. The health crisis that we are experiencing has highlighted the desire of the French to build a more ecological and supportive society. While the climate emergency has been at the heart of our discussions for several years, policy choices in this area do not always follow a coherent environmental strategy, such as the housing policy case and, more specifically, the energy consumption of housing. In this area, priority does not seem to me to be given sufficiently to the energy renovation of homes. What's the point of producing greener energy if we inject it into real heat sinks? If we had invested all the aid for intermittent renewables in the energy renovation work, we could have changed all the old boilers without the users having to make any progress. In considering the energy and climate bill, we called for a more ambitious policy on energy renovation of housing. According to an ADEME survey, 78% of the renovation work carried out on individual houses did not allow the dwellings in question to change their energy class. Minister, we are not yet up to the stakes: 7 million housing units are poorly isolated. Following the launch of the energy renovation plan for buildings, public support of approximately EUR 14 billion in investment was announced, supplemented by more than EUR 5 billion in energy saving certificates, which are directly used to finance energy renovation works. While 500,000 renovations per year had been announced under the plan, of which 75,000 were in favour of modest occupants, only 155,000 renovations have been financed by ANAH – and I am not talking about the new environmental regulation of new buildings, known as RE2020, nor about energy performance diagnostics. Many devices are not effective. How does your department intend to mobilize the necessary resources to implement the renovation plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u138	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u139	Mrs Auconia, I ask myself every day the question that you have just formulated – perhaps it is due to my training as an engineer. Indeed, a public policy is first and foremost the result of political will; It is then the subject of a democratic debate, most often a parliamentary debate; Finally, it is the Government's responsibility to implement it. Needless to say, too often we realize that statements from the gallery or announcements have not been followed sufficiently. For my part, I think that the best thing to do to implement a public policy that has been decided is to appoint a project manager, to add indicators to the public policy and to raise the meters. That is precisely what I have been trying to do for the past three years in my position within the Government: for all or almost all of the public policies that I am responsible for, there is a project leader and indicators, and a reporting is done to me, which makes it possible to adjust.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u140	Yeah, we're fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u141	For example, as I said earlier, we did not wait a year before correcting the Denormandie device in the old one. Why? Because all the indicators that we were told revealed difficulties here or there. The same applies to the energy renovation of buildings. Think that we still have a hard time counting the number of renovated houses! However, this is a central indicator. Moreover, this can be explained quite easily: one counts in the same way a complete renovation and a renovation carried out thanks to a single gesture, whereas these are two different things. The indicators are very important. Thus, thanks to relevant indicators, the activity of ANAH – which is my responsibility – in the area of global renovation, which goes beyond energy renovation, has doubled in two years. In the world of start-ups, this is called a unicorn. We need to go even further, because energy renewal must, I repeat, be a pillar of recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u142	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u143	Thanks to you, Mr Minister, the State, represented by Mrs Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, and Mr Lecornu, Minister for Local and Regional Authorities, signed on 15 March 2019, in Charleville-Mézières, the Ardennes Pact, which aims to revitalize this territory, in close cooperation with all actors. Like many other Members, I have understood the great interest of the Energy and Climate Act, which commits our country to the gradual elimination of housing with poor energy performance, with the ultimate objective, perhaps in 2050, that there should be only housing in France in categories A, B or C, i.e. well isolated. Several dates have been set by law, and I understand that there is a need to reconcile the need to eliminate thermal sieves as soon as possible with the need not to cause the withdrawal of housing offers in tense areas that would no longer meet the needs of the population. Mr Minister, I would ask you to support the work of the Ardennes Pact players in order to launch an experiment in our department to speed up the process of eliminating thermal colanders. As our territory loses its inhabitants every year, there is a lot of vacant housing and the risk of a reduction in the supply of housing compared to the needs is almost non-existent. The Ardennes could thus become a pioneer territory in thermal renovation, which would improve the purchasing power of its inhabitants and guarantee work, over a long period of time, for the construction companies. We could, if necessary, adopt legislation to that effect, while building on the regulatory framework that the Government is in the process of defining following the adoption of the Energy and Climate Act. For example, the deadline of 2028 could be advanced. At the initiative of the regional council, supported by all other communities and by the state, fibre optics will arrive in all the communes of the department, regardless of their size, in the coming months. If this arrival were accompanied by a powerful programme of aesthetic and thermal renovation of the built heritage, it would restore, I am sure, the attractiveness of the department, to which the Government and all the Ardennes actors have been working within the framework of the Ardennes pact for almost fifteen months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u145	I cannot comment on the experiment you are proposing, Mr Warsmann, because I have not had the opportunity to examine it in detail and I am not aware of its ins and outs. Nevertheless, knowing you long enough to know that you are an expert on these issues, I have no doubt that it is interesting and relevant. In fact, you propose to go quickly, if not as quickly as possible, with regard to energy renovation and to make it a vector of attractiveness for your territory. I can only endorse this idea. We will look in detail at what can be done, in the state of mind that animated us for the conclusion of the Ardennes pact. Of course, I can only be the first to support any measure to move forward faster for the benefit of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u146	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u147	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot, a non-attached Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u148	In addition to the health crisis we have experienced, there is now an economic and social crisis. Containment has allowed our hospitals to preserve their capacities and, consequently, to take care of many patients, but it has also had negative effects: it has led to whole families living together in a sometimes very small space. It revealed the thermal discomfort of some homes and again highlighted the need for many renovations. Our country has nearly 6.7 million heat colanders, which have both environmental and health costs. Nearly 6 million French households are in a state of energy insecurity. In my constituency, mining housing is often unworthy of what decent housing should be. There is an urgent need for a real plan to renovate our homes in order to improve their energy performance and to support social donors. Major statements in favour of the energy transition have increased in recent years; It is time to move from speech to action. The commitment to the renewal of the mining basin was ambitious. However, the housing renovation programme announced for the municipality of Bruay-la-Buissière is slow to materialize, causing direct harm to the inhabitants concerned. In this period of crisis, energy renewal can contribute to the recovery of the economy. Minister, can you tell us what direction you intend to take to speed up the renovation of housing? It is expected by many French, especially in the Pas-de-Calais mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u149	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u150	Perhaps this habit is due to the high geographical position you occupy in the Chamber, Mr Pajot, but it is a pity that you do not recall, in your questions, everything that has already been undertaken, as if it were not good to say what has been done. Perhaps you were not present when this House debated, at a very long time, the support given to the mining basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u151	I didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u152	Many of your colleagues remember that. Under the last finance law, specific appropriations have been allocated for the renovation of the mining basin. The Minister of Public Action and Accounts, who knows the region well enough, has himself invested a great deal to ensure that this is the case. Beyond this Chamber, we have worked hard to find solutions to accompany the various operators involved, who have encountered difficulties – you surely know if you have examined the situation closely. Recaptures have been completed; we have allowed operators to come to support the actors who traditionally work in the mining basin; We have provided significant ad hoc funding. Why? Because we know that the renovation of certain housing units in the mining basin is more expensive than elsewhere, because of the specific nature of the habitat, which must be preserved. These discussions and work took a long month, but this was done; Strong solutions are being made. From now on, we must continue our efforts in this direction, while looking at what needs to be done in addition. In any case, do not sweep away all the debates that have taken place here. By failing to mention them, you make the inhabitants concerned believe that national representation and the Government have not taken up the issue of housing renovation in the mining basin, which is of primary importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u153	We have completed the sequence of housing policy issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u154	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u155	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u156	The next item is questions about the organisation of the public hospital and the role of regional health agencies. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u157	The health crisis linked to the epidemic of covid-19 and the resulting extreme tension for the public hospital, for our health-care workers and for the whole chain of care supply blew up the doctrine that prevailed in France and whose regional health agencies were armed at the same time as the guards. Many parliamentarians, including myself and my colleagues Sophie Auconia and Christophe Naegelen, but also local, regional, departmental and municipal elected officials, faced with the closures of beds and even of local institutions, alerted the Government to the dangers of a purely budgetary and accounting vision of the provision of care, of an urban concentration of hospital facilities, reinforced by the establishment of territorial hospital groups. Rather than organizing the necessary complementarities between public and private, hospital medicine and city medicine, the SRAs have transformed themselves into the financial police of the institutions. Our country has thus proved unable to anticipate the particularly dramatic progression of the epidemic. Coronavirus hit him like many others, but our health response raises questions and calls for necessary evolutions. Hospital policy must be based on objectives of efficiency, adaptability and modernization. These objectives are not incompatible with a financial requirement, but priority must be given to the quality and accessibility of care for all our citizens, wherever they are in the national territory, and not to the financial balance of institutions. SRAs must therefore change their territorial approach in the implementation of the national directives and ONDAM, the national objective of health insurance expenditure. They could usefully draw on the fine knowledge of the land available to the territorial elected representatives, many of whom are on the supervisory boards of the institutions. It should be added that the ageing of our population, as well as the challenges of dependency and extreme dependence, require that we anticipate the civilizational upheaval that they carry as a germ and that we are no longer immune to pandemic recurrences that call for emergency responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u158	The Secretary of State for Pensions and the Protection of the Health of Employees from the Covid -19 Epidemic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u159	Mr President, first of all I want to thank you and your group for putting the public hospital and the RSAs on the agenda of this debate. I would then ask you to excuse Minister Olivier Véran, who has been retained by other obligations. You know how much he's solicited, but he'll be with you tonight. We can only share the objective that accessibility and quality of care be a reality for all our citizens throughout the national territory. The broad consultations that you know the Government has wished to open today within the framework of the Segur of Health will be an opportunity to address some aspects of this issue. However, I cannot share a binary view of the role played by RSAs during this health crisis. Having taken the time to meet with officials and staff of these agencies for the purpose of this debate, I can assure you, honourable Member, that they have worked night and day to allow, who is transferring patients, who are supplying protective equipment – but I understand that your question is about the current organisation of the SRAs, not the men and women they employ.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u160	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u161	During this crisis, many have tried local freedoms, pointing in particular to the failures of regional health agencies. These are in fact the symbols of the centralization, or even of the French centrality, of the kind of prefectures bis, without having the autonomy or the power. The SRAs that have managed to overcome this crisis are those that have freed themselves from the central state, such as those of Île-de-France or Rhône-Alpes. They are not content to apply the circulars of the Ministry of Health but have demonstrated real autonomy, on the basis of consultation with local actors, elected representatives and parliamentarians. Three points seem to have been decisive for the proper management of the crisis by these RSAs: close cooperation between the public and the private sector, collaboration with city medicine and assistance to EHPAD and the various medical and social structures. Conversely, in my department of Indre-et-Loire, for example, many health professionals have felt left out by this institution, whose answers and guidance they have long waited for. For a very long time now, the IDU has been proposing to regionalize our health care system: Jean-Louis Borloo and André Santini, whom I welcome here, have been defending a bill to this effect since 2000. If the state gave each RHA a regionalized budget based on its population, taking into account clear public health indicators, our health system would be more effective. The territories would no longer suffer the catastrophic consequences of hospital closures, since local elected officials would compensate for these closures through city medicine or community clinics. There would be fewer medical deserts since the regionalized budget would automatically regulate the supply of city medicine. The regions would be free to experiment with new solutions. Finally, the State, relieved by this mission, could focus on its strategic missions, including expenditure control. Hasn't the time, Secretary of State, come to the end of the logic of decentralization and not to limit itself to the simple logic of deconcentration that governs the current model of RSAs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u162	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u163	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u164	I thank you, Madam Member, for referring to the RSAs – many of them – which have enabled us to overcome the health crisis through their commitment and their ability to innovate and find solutions. You stressed the importance of dialogue with the whole liberal sector, particularly in the ambulance. You have recalled the need to coordinate public and private action and to demonstrate innovation and confidence, and I believe that the various actors you have mentioned share this conviction. As you know, RHAs are piloting regional health plans. You want us to go further, going so far as to evoke budgetary autonomy, certainly framed – I don't want to make a bad case for you! I hear your arguments, but I do not forget that health is a common good that requires broad solidarity between the richest regions and others. We also need a national dynamic. You're right, we need to work on decentralization responses. This is one of the topics that we need to think about with health care professionals. The exchanges I have had for several days, particularly with Nicole Notat, have made it clear to me that they have very clear opinions on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u165	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u166	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u167	It is the way in which people who care for and protect the people are treated that we recognize the greatness of a country. In view of the current situation, unfortunately there are some reasons to doubt our greatness... Not only do the working conditions of caregivers continue to deteriorate, but their wages are not high enough; They would have to be revalued, and that would go far beyond the granting of a simple premium. Another problem is that of the SRAs. As you said earlier, Secretary of State: it cannot be considered that the agents of the regional health agencies in their entirety did not do their job. I myself found in my territory that many worked day and night during the crisis. Nevertheless, there was a real problem of responsiveness: we preferred to wait for orders from above rather than trust people on the ground. Mr. Secretary of State, this "administrativeism" has had serious consequences. I would like to take as an example the hospital for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – of Cornimont, which, unfortunately, saw twenty-five of its residents disappear last April, carried away by the coronavirus in a few days. I don't want to throw the stone at anyone; I am simply telling you a logical statement and a point of common sense. If the SRA had listened to the people who are on the ground and reacted upstream, instead of waiting for an order from their regional leadership or even their national leadership, it would have been possible to save two to four days; This may have prevented fatal contamination. It is to be hoped that this unfortunate episode will serve as a lesson, and that we will not fall back into a centralized ARS; hope that these agencies will become an administration at the service of local staff, elected officials and caregivers, who are at the closest to the problems of the field. It is often said that intelligence is local. My question is simple, Secretary of State: are you going to make your administration understand that it must trust those who are on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u168	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u169	I already knew it when I was a Member of Parliament, but I confirm it being in the Government: you perfectly embody the fine knowledge of the territory, Mr Naegelen – I say it all the more confidently since I know a little bit about the Vosges. You refer to the case of the Remiremont hospital, that of the EHPAD in Cornimont... I know your commitment in this matter, your sensitivity to the difficulties of those you represent and it is ultimately their word that I hear resonate through you. I believe that this is the objective of all those present here. As far as the substance is concerned, I see some consistency between your question and those of the previous speakers – which I appreciate, moreover, because it makes it possible to clarify the point. What you are questioning, in the end, is the relationship of trust: autonomy, as it was called of its wishes by your colleague, could it not be achieved through the construction of a relationship of trust? It is true that the actors in the health system have all expressed the need for trust and cohesion in the context of this health crisis – this is at least what has been suggested; What has been said is the need to work together, to have a common project, to care for our fellow citizens. All of this requires trust. I believe that you are pointing out a point that will have to be the subject of particular vigilance on our part – but I thank you, too, for highlighting the work that has been done and continues to be done on a daily basis by all the employees of the ARS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u170	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u171	Secretary of State, I would like to pay tribute to the remarkable work done in the Ardennes Department by the ARS in the fight against the covid -19 epidemic. Even if such results are still fragile, the department of the Ardennes is the department of the Grand Est region which counted the least deaths, while the neighbouring territories, including Belgium, were severely affected. This is probably due to the men, and to the efficiency of the tandem of the territorial delegate of the ARS and the prefect, but it is also due to the practice of the various actors of the department, including the local authorities, to work together. I would therefore like to suggest that we draw lessons from past months. It would be a matter of launching in the voluntary departments an experiment which would consist of giving, at the level of the life pool – in the Ardennes, there are two territories of life: the Ardennes of the North and the Ardennes of the South – greater autonomy to the health actors: hospitals gathered in the hospital groups of territory, health homes, medical-social institutions for people with disabilities or in loss of autonomy, and liberal doctors grouped tomorrow into territorial professional health communities. This autonomy would be achieved through the creation of a governance body in which the State, RSA and local and regional authorities would be represented, in order to define a shared health project, tailored to the needs of the population and integrating all actors. This body could validate projects, allocate operating budgets – which would be a real revolution – and monitor at all times the implementation of the jointly built project and the achievement of its objectives. It would be a matter of going much further than the current community care commissions. This would seem to me to be an important step forward for every territory of life concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u172	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u173	Thank you, Mr. Warsmann, for setting the example of an ARS listening to its territory. You highlight what good practice is – and I believe that the value of this debate is also to share with us what works well. As a result, you want to go further, that is to say towards more autonomy – this echoes what has already been said. You are proposing the creation of a government body, whose composition you have described. We note through it, and I am grateful to you, your willingness to maintain a coherence between a national policy, so that we can benefit from the same quality of care regardless of the department, and a health project that would correspond to the needs of a basin of life. You want to go closer to the ground, closer to the reality of everyday life. I think, honourable Member, that this is a good proposal, which has its full place in the Segur of Health. This is one of the topics that will need to be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u174	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u175	The epidemic of covid-19 reminds us that in times of health crisis, reactivity in decision-making is fundamental. In this regard, the decisions of regional health agencies have sometimes led to a great deal of misunderstanding, which has exacerbated their image as a technocratic structure far removed from the needs and realities of the territories. Yet, the prerogatives of the SRAs are numerous – perhaps too many, in fact, which partly explains the bureaucratic delays and the lack of responsiveness. While it is not a question for me to question the quality of the work of all RHA officers, misunderstandings with local authorities have been common, especially when they have been reminded of the order for ordering masks, even though medical and social institutions and liberal health professionals were sorely lacking. Decisions often appear vertical and inappropriate in the field. In general, while SRAs are required to implement the Government's policy, they are responsible for dialogue with elected officials. But relations with local elected officials and the medical profession are far from fluid – when they exist. As a result, responses to the same question differ from SRA to SRA. For example, not all have made the choice to accompany Liberal physicians to create centres for the detection of covid-19 patients. Moreover, these dysfunctions do not date from the crisis. Thus, in 2018, in his report on equal access to the care of the French throughout the country, our president, Philippe Vigier, had seriously questioned the effectiveness of the ARS. The current health crisis calls for a redistribution of roles. Why not, Mr Secretary of State, entrust the Prefect with the management of health risks, in liaison with local authorities and the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u176	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u177	You are making an extremely concrete proposal, Mr President, since both you stress the role that the State must play, embodied by the Prefect, and you are wondering what the functioning of the RSA should be in parallel. As I still have many contacts with Members, I know that a number of questions have arisen in some departments on this subject. I myself met, not so long ago, the director general of the ARS des Hauts-de-France, knowing that there is also a departmental delegate in my department of the North. You know well that when you are a member of parliament, you know very well the prefect of department and a little less the prefect of region; Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's the same for the ARS. However, I hear your question, and I would not like to give you a pure answer. What I think is that among all that is put on the table with the Ségur de la santé, there is also governance – as I said earlier. Under the current system, there are departments where the function of departmental delegate is ensured, within the framework of a mission letter, with some autonomy and there are others where it is less true; I believe that this is one of the subjects on which our collective reflection should focus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u178	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u179	My speech will go in the same direction as those of my colleagues. You speak of the common good, so the national framework, but I will make it clear that the national framework is not always virtuous. The policy on masks, for example, has changed a lot since 2011, and it is the state that ultimately, through its reversals, has put us in trouble. As a result, no one is directly responsible for the management of masks. It would have been better if someone had been; It would have been easier. RHAs, it is only a deconcentrated administration that takes its orders from the Ministry of Health. If we want things to be done in a more thoughtful way, we must involve the elected representatives, in particular the regional elected representatives; There can therefore be discussion, and it is not simply budgetary contingencies that will be taken into account. Elected people know what's good for their territory and their fellow citizens, and that's very important. If there is the prefect, it certainly allows us to go beyond health issues alone, but with local elected officials, democracy is introduced. We move from a vertical system, which is the case of a deconcentrated system, to a horizontal system. So, yes to the SRAs, provided that alongside the broad national lines, which guarantee respect for the principle of equality – and that, of course, I want to do so – there is direct management, on the ground, of more specific issues. This is what will make it possible to remedy the lack of reactivity: we don't open the umbrella, we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u180	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u181	What you are raising, Mr Molac, is the whole problem of health policies and the way in which they are implemented. You say that there would be some kind of conflict between a highly centralized organisation and a decentralised one. Of which act. This view can be shared; It was clear that there was a need for proximity, and that such proximity would no doubt make it possible to be more responsive, better adapted to the needs of the territories. It is quite obvious that I am not going to be singing a purely Parisian decision here, especially since, when I was a Member of Parliament, I was defending a completely different position on social democracy: I am not going to change my opinion on health democracy! I always have the same conviction that the right decisions are made at the closest to the reality. Nevertheless, you will also understand that as a member of the Government, which currently represents the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I am careful that there is some coherence at the national level and that there is a national care offer – even though I know, Mr Molac, that it was not at all your point to challenge it. In saying this, I just want to point out that we are on a ridge line and that we must try to find, together, the best way, between, on the one hand, the positive experience that was reported earlier on the Ardennes and, on the other hand, the disappointments felt in other departments. The opportunity for us, at the end of this health crisis, is to ask ourselves all together what we want to offer in terms of health and how to decline the provision of care to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u182	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u183	My questions will, of course, recall those that have already been asked. The finding is unanimous: the crisis of the covid -19 highlighted the dysfunctions suffered by the ARS – lack of readability of their missions, tensions with the prefects, opacity of stock management, lack of coordination with elected officials. All, as far as the Head of State is concerned, agree on the need to learn from this crisis. It is true that the creation of SRAs in 2010 was somewhat mortiferous, inspired by new public management or new public management, driven by budget cuts, and the consequences aggravated by the reduction in the number of regions in 2015. Bureaucratisation and rationalisation have thus combined to weaken the provision of care. The directors of the ARS, sometimes recruited from among the top executives of the big distribution, insist on applying until the absurd austerity policy. I am thinking, for example, of this director of the Grand Est, who has since been dismissed, who was continuing the restructuring of the regional and university hospital centre – CHRU – in Nancy, despite the dramatic scale taken in this region by the health crisis. This technocratic body is inoperative. The spirit of true health democracy must be revived. The CGT santé proposes, for example, to develop, instead of the ARS, an offer of proximity for all that would involve representatives of elected representatives, deconcentrated services of the State, collectives of users, within territorial chambers declined at the departmental and regional levels. It would be preferable for health workers to be able to define the provision of appropriate care for a population themselves. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to follow these paths as part of your current thinking?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u184	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u185	You will have understood that I do not consider the role of the SRA in the same way as you. You described them as "inoperative": you probably wanted to express your opinion strongly before proposing an alternative. RSAs are not inoperative: it is thanks to them that we have been able to transfer 600 patients from the Grand Est and Île-de-France to less affected areas. These were 600 of our fellow citizens, 600 lives at stake; This transfer has been done and done well. I don't accuse any of you of ignoring him. This has been mentioned on the other side of the House: we can and must think about governance, the provision of local care, the way in which we involve elected representatives. It is the object of the Segur of Health. Let's say: we have margins of progress in this area; I interpret your question to that effect. There is no doubt that we need to build confidence, make exchanges more agile, and let go of technocracy. But, again, I will not say with you that the SRAs are inoperative; I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u186	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u187	The DRASS, the regional directorates for health and social affairs, could have played the same role and dispensed us with the RSAs, whose deeply bureaucratic nature you recognize. By means of hospital groups whose necessity was not always demonstrated, the latter organized the destructuration of the community health service. The nature of the SRAs is also an accounting: these groupings have drastically reduced the number of beds in territories whose extent is sometimes comparable to that of European countries. This territorial health management, marked by technocracy and austerity, takes the form of a bureaucratic and accounting management of hospitals. One remembers this chief of service who, barely the peak of the last epidemic, was asked to redo the count of the beds available: I will not insist. This technocratic logic at all levels is matched by the lack of democracy in hospitals, where the elected principle is constantly reduced and the scope of staff delegates is reduced. No wonder, since the ARS was designed to bypass the heads of the service, reducing our health democracy to a closed session between directors of ARS, writers and presidents of the GHT, the hospital groups of territory. These people have introduced the principles of new public management, tight flow management, the increasing quantification of the medical act, which causes stress and dysfunction everywhere. We know the consequences: working arrangements are deteriorating; teams lose to the sense and taste of their profession. Health workers rightly call for upgrading and qualification, but also for a certain consideration, a more inclusive functioning, involving union representatives and representatives of the social insurance companies at all levels of decision-making, instead of simply trading yesterday's mandarins against today's managers. Again, do you intend to take these proposals and demands into account when reorganizing hospitals this time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u188	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u189	Thank you, Mrs Rubin, for concluding your questions with proposals. Not sharing your analysis of the situation, I consider that the first part of your interventions is used to highlight the second. We have heard a lot of questions about the role of RHAs here. RSAs are young: they have a little more than ten years of existence. I repeat, we can certainly do better, but perhaps we have forgotten – I am speaking as a former Member – what it was before they were created. The previous organization was distributed among several jurisdictions, which greatly complicated the provision of care in the territories. Let us not forget that; Nor should we forget the beneficial role played so far by the SRAs. You are calling for more social democracy in health democracy: you have come across the right interlocutor. I am convinced that social dialogue, exchange as close as possible to the ground, is better in this area than the uniform application of laws written in Paris in this House, regardless of the competence of the parties concerned. Thinking about hospital governance and giving health democracy a real lever of social democracy has nothing to do with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u190	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u191	After several weeks of health crisis that have hit our national health system hard, now is the time for reflection and change. The unprecedented consequences of the epidemic undoubtedly lead us to reconsider the territorial organization of health, which has shown its limits: inconsistent decisions, administrative burdens. It is high time to address these fundamental problems, which undermine the work of health professionals in the territories. It is above all the role of RSAs that we must totally rethink. Established ten years ago in the continuity of the regional hospital agencies – HRA – and then based on the major regions, they now have all the powers of health in our territories. ARS is the state, and that is precisely what has been a problem in this period of crisis. Local communities and elected representatives have been the most enterprising, especially in the East; SRAs, particularly in the same region, have tried to regulate without sufficient reactivity, without autonomy. The director of the ARS Grand Est also served as a fuse, perhaps because of his comments about the restructuring of the CHRU in Nancy, or rather because he had ordered 5 million masks without permission. The missions entrusted – late – to the ARS were heavy and difficult to implement everywhere. The RSAs have proved to be technocratic and administrative bodies, far removed from the realities of the field. A transfer of skills would help local health actors more than ever, as these deconcentrated state structures are not in line with the needs of the territories. RSAs could have introduced consistent public-private channels for covid-19 patients, which would have prevented very heavy health transfers while some clinics remained empty. They could have relied on liberal doctors, also on the front line, as well as hospital doctors. Mr Secretary of State, after the unprecedented crisis that we have just experienced and the many shortcomings in its national management, do you not believe that there is an urgent need to rethink territorial governance in the field of health? What are the prospects, especially those opened up by the Ségur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u192	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u193	No doubt you know a part of my answer, Mrs.Wonner, not because I would have already revealed it, but because, in this area, we are on our way. In my view, therefore, your question is rather a contribution to the debate than a request for the conclusions of the Segur of Health. The first part of your speech was a little harsh. I note the reference to red tape, the need for more agility and proximity, which echoes many of the previous questions. In substance, we come back to the governance we want for our RHAs and how we want to decline in our territories the provision of care, the health policy of our country. Once again, many Members share your desire to see us revisit the governance of the SRAs, ask us again about the role of local elected officials, about partnerships. Local elected officials are not completely absent from the SRAs; they are part of a number of councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u194	They're just observers! What a lack of knowledge of reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u195	Perhaps they would like to be the head of the board of directors, to have a more strategic vision; But they already have a say in the regional health project. I would not like you to take my answer for a refusal to debate, because I understand that we have to work on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u196	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u197	Too often forgotten in recent years, our caregivers are now applauded, acclaimed by the general population. This light must be used wisely in order to improve their working conditions in an effective and meaningful way. That is why I would like to address a subject that is still often ignored: the status and working conditions of medical regulatory assistants working in the UAS. Under this somewhat vague designation are women and men indispensable for the care of patients in the event of a medical emergency, as they are the first interlocutors of those who make up 15 or 112. During the covid-19 crisis, these MRAs had to deal with a large number of calls: more than 200 per day at the Niort Hospital in the heart of my constituency. Beyond this work overload related to the health crisis, there are anomalies in their situation. However, working in an emergency, day and night, they fall under category B of administrative staff. How can it be justified that they are not considered to be medical-technical workers in the same way as, for example, laboratory technicians? There is also the question of access to this profession. In order to obtain certification, it is often necessary to pass through the VAE, the validation of the experience acquired. In the light of the crisis in recent months, in view of the exceptional mobilisation of skills that has made it possible to deal with it, I would like to make two major demands of the MRA, to which I fully adhere. The first is the modification of their status and their inclusion in the medical-technical category; the second, that the requirement for an EAW be removed for all currently operating ARMs, which would lead to their automatic certification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u198	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u199	I am not surprised by your question, Mr President, given that the CHU de Poitiers opened a training centre for medical regulatory assistants this summer. You have stressed the need to recognize the importance of these professions that are exercised in an emergency and under pressure – you need to know how to orient the people who call quickly and well. I wanted to talk to Olivier Véran ahead of this debate. The Minister of Solidarity and Health pays particular attention to MRA and in particular to their training. These future emergency professionals must be trained and the attractiveness of their profession strengthened. Remember that the MRA of the hospital civil service have been receiving a bonus of 100 euros per month since November 2019, which you may find insufficient. I welcome their involvement during the crisis. As such, more than 80 per cent of the staff of the UAS, therefore also the MRA, will be able to benefit from the maximum level of the exceptional premium granted by the Government following the epidemic of covid-19, which can reach 1500 euros. I say this clearly: the ARMs will not be forgotten in the effort of revalorisation, beyond that which they have just benefited. Let's let the work take its course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u200	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor to put the two questions from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u201	Thank you, Secretary of State, for making it possible to hold a session around the organization of the public hospital. The crisis of the coronavirus has allowed the French to rediscover, if needed, the importance and above all the dedication of their caregivers. It turned out that the hospital, which was thought to be rigid, could be reorganized very quickly. We witnessed this in my constituency in Mulhouse, which was the epicentre of the epidemic in France. Within a few hours, services were completely reorganized to accommodate the sick. Yet these same caregivers, in these same hospitals, were demonstrating, a few months ago, in 2019, to protest against the lack of resources. For example, Mulhouse's emergency services had only seven emergency doctors for a theoretical staff of twenty-five. All staff in the medical sector were also complaining of an over-administration of the hospital, which is reflected in an essentially accounting approach and in the excess of resources devoted to bureaucracy to the detriment of the operational and the patients. My question is very simple, Secretary of State. As the Ségur de la santé finally opens up, what will be the main orientations for the public hospital to be able to have sufficient human resources and to gain flexibility in order to better organize itself in the service of the health of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u202	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u203	I know, honourable Member, how hard your territory has been hit by the epidemic. I thank you, in this regard, for asking a question that invites us to retreat and reflect and does not urge us to act with emotion. I do not interpret your question as denouncing an opposition between administrative directors and caregivers, far from it. On the contrary, as the Minister of Solidarity and Health recently pointed out in an interview, the health crisis provided an opportunity to question the practices and to question this over-administration which you have noted. This, however, is also an effect of medical demography, a problem that has persisted for decades, perhaps because national representation has not always made the right choices, especially with regard to the numerus clausus – since then the situation has changed and it is a good thing. The crisis showed that with an emergency department cut by two thirds of its staff and a plethora of administration, the needs of patients could not be met, especially if too much partitioned operation prevented the various actors concerned from working together. This subject, Mr President, will of course be dealt with in the context of Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u204	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u205	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer that meets our expectations. Let me now ask you about the role of regional health agencies. Of course, my point will not concern all their agents. Similarly, it is not guided by emotion but by the events that we have witnessed during this crisis. We were able to see a complete disconnect between the vision of the situation that RHA staff had from their offices and the reality that caregivers were facing in the field. I will quote just a few examples from our Mulhusian experience, but my colleagues have reported similar cases from all over France. For example, when resuscitation beds were urgently opened to accommodate patients in respiratory distress who were waiting on stretchers, the SRA asked by e-mail that administrative records of more than 60 pages be completed. It was totally absurd, because doctors had to spend all their time saving lives. The same was true when additional respirators had to be obtained: they had to be justified by filling in thick files. We could still cite hundreds of similar examples. Fortunately, we were able to solve these problems with the help of the Minister of Solidarity and Health and his excellent office, who listened to us and were able, from above, to encourage the RHAs to change their way of work. However, the problem of the burden of bureaucracy remains, and it would be desirable to reflect on the role of RSAs and their organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u206	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u207	Once again, honourable Member, you have fed into the debate by bringing back to us what you have witnessed in your territory. You welcomed the reaction of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. In spite of this, caregivers had to find it incredible, if not unbearable, to have to complete, even for a few days, dozens of pages of records while they were facing the health emergency. Olivier Véran therefore took the necessary steps by making a decree to free them from these administrative constraints, and in so doing, he also eased the burden for the ARS. Rest assured that we are thinking about the steps to be taken to ensure that, if a health crisis occurs again – as late as possible, I hope – we are able to adapt to the emergency by adjusting our practices, including at the level of administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u208	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u209	The crisis has highlighted the major demands of caregivers, whom you know: raising wages and careers, creating jobs, relocating beds. But what the health emergency has particularly revealed is the need for governance – even if I do not like this term – to take the lead, within hospitals, on accounting and administrative governance, even if one cannot deny the usefulness of the latter. All categories of personnel, all teams have gathered their intelligence and combined their effectiveness to meet the amazing increase in needs. They found solutions and the means had to follow, even if the conditions remained precarious. The logic of bureaucratic austerity has been largely shaken by those whose health is the daily job. Today, voices are rising to denounce authoritarian normalization, as evidenced by several examples of sanctions. This is the case in the Rouvray Hospital, where an administrative investigation was launched against several agents who allegedly reported a lack of masks. Mr Secretary of State, will you take into account this experience of democracy in the world of caregivers to transform the management of hospitals? The same question may arise about SRAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u210	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u211	Mr President, you are taking up a subject already raised by Mrs Rubin, that of governance – you do not like the term, but it allows everyone to understand what it is about. You want caregivers to be better integrated into hospital governance. I will tell you again that this is the third pillar of the Segur of Health – it is not a secret and you can see it for yourself by reading the reports of this great concertation. The issue of governance is on the agenda and will, of course, be addressed. By the end of last year, under the Health Act, we had already provided for health care providers to take over from an institution, in order to strengthen proximity and, above all, to put an end to the opposition, which I would call a posture, between officials from the administration and those who have followed a medical course. I am aware that this proposal does not address all your concerns. In any case, the issue of the better integration of both caregivers and patients into hospital governance deserves to be addressed and will be discussed within the framework of Health Security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u212	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u213	The organization of the public hospital has been at the heart of the neoliberal transformation of public policies for several years. Fee-for-service, bed removals, management of stocks of medicines and staff in strained flows, versatility imposed on staff... Accounting for health causes damage and death; The many suicides of hospital workers show this in a dramatic way. Caregivers have been on the street for the past two years to demand changes, even though challenges are severely repressed by their managements. In Le Havre, the demonstrators even had to perch on the roof of the hospital to make themselves heard. To put an end to this carnage, the Communist deputies demanded not a new reorganization, but new means for the hospital, the end of the freeze on the index point, the revalorisation of wages, new hirings, the reintegration of the mayor in the governance of the hospital and the end of the fee-for-service, which had just proved its total inefficiency. After the crisis of the covid -19, for the sole reward, you divided the hospital by granting bonuses the amount of which was left to the discretion of the directorates. You then offered a medal for the caregivers and asked the other workers to transfer their TWUs so that they could go on leave. These proposals are insulting to employees and caregivers, who have sometimes given up their lives to fight the disease. We also demand a change in the role of RSAs, which do not allow health democracy to express itself in the territories. Regional health agencies need to be deconfigured: they need to go to the field and see the devastating effects of your policies. Health must no longer be a market, it is a common good that we must protect. When will you finally understand that health is in danger, that hospitals are crumbling and that it is not a change of organization that is needed, but a complete revolution in the management of health facilities? Our fellow citizens say this: health and happiness are their priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u214	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u215	Mr President, you are pointing out here that health is our most valuable asset. This feeling is shared by our fellow citizens and has been recalled by the speakers of all the benches. Don't make a bad case for each other, since everyone agrees on this point. You consider that this ambition has not been served by certain policies. However, I would like to remind you, as your colleague Mr Wulfranc has just said, that it is this Government that has put an end to part of the T2A, to replace it with another tariff – particularly for chronic diseases – and has increased hospital fees over three years, in order to give greater visibility to the hospital. You also know that the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and Minister Olivier Véran have made a clear commitment to review the remuneration of caregivers – I am talking about remuneration, not bonuses. I understand that this is not enough in your eyes, but it is still necessary to credit the Government for seriously wanting to change things with the plan "my health 2022" and to continue to tackle the subject by organizing the Ségur de la santé, led by Nicole Notat and under which the commitment was made to raise the salaries of the medical professions in the hospital. We must add to that the next steps, which we have been discussing for almost an hour, regarding governance, organization and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u216	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u217	Hospitals and the healthcare sector have had to adapt rapidly and effectively to the shortage of resuscitation beds and equipment. Discharged due to the urgency of administrative burdens, health professionals have demonstrated their effectiveness and demonstrated that they must be essential partners in the management of the system. Yet at the heart of the care system, RHAs have raised questions and criticisms, including their responsiveness, autonomy or management deemed too administrative. Even if dysfunctions are not the rule, for example in Occitanie, some regional health agencies have been overwhelmed by the urgency of decisions to be taken. The question of scale has therefore arisen: in the larger regions, have SRAs not become health super-prefectures, too far from the ground, whose effectiveness is uneven from one territory to another and who struggle to cooperate with prefects and local elected officials? The founding principles of RHAs must, of course, be preserved, namely the unified management of health policy and the improvement of the provision of care in line with local needs. France's health policy must remain a national competence, but must be given real flexibility at local level. To be effective, SRAs should be managed equally and equally by administrative actors, who must follow national guidelines, and by caregivers, who are best able to imagine solutions adapted to the field. It is essential that the HHT and the medical and social sector are genuine partners in decision-making and foresight. The national health strategy must lead to greater human and financial flexibility by integrating the partnership between hospital practice and city medicine, between hospitalization and ambulance. Secretary of State, how can we make the steering of agencies closer to the ground? What do you think of joint management by the administration and caregivers? How can the SRAs be given sufficient financial flexibility to adapt the offer to their territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u218	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u219	I would like to remind you once again that local elected officials are not completely detached from the ARS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u221	Their involvement may seem insufficient to Mr Lecoq, and perhaps to others of your colleagues, but it would be excessive to pretend that it does not exist. Local elected officials work in conjunction with the ARS; I saw him in my department when I was a member of Parliament, and I'm surprised Mr. Lecoq doesn't know that. They are involved in the development and monitoring of local health contracts, as well as – as regards community care – in regional and departmental steering committees, which involve SRAs and primary health insurance funds. The consultation of local elected representatives is also concerned with the organisation of telemedicine, which has grown considerably in recent months, with more than one million teleconsultations compared to 20,000 a year earlier. You are asking how to better involve local elected officials. This issue has been the subject of a large number of requests, and I have confirmed that it is on the Health Security agenda. But let us remember that the elected representatives are not currently fully detached and have been consulted on several health developments, starting with telemedicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u222	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u223	Despite the criticisms, the unprecedented health crisis that we have been through has demonstrated the remarkable ability of our health system to sustain and adapt to the emergency and epidemic. I want to commend again here the unwavering investment and responsiveness of our institutions, health institutions and their staff. But the health crisis has also highlighted certain limitations, obstacles and malfunctions that we will have to correct by learning all the lessons of the crisis, particularly in terms of health governance. In this regard, as several of my colleagues have already said, while the SRAs have played a major role in the management and coordination of crisis management, the administrative burden, the management logic and the lack of responsiveness of some of them demonstrate that the issue of the organisation of care needs to be raised, as well as the logistics of distribution of protective equipment. The situation necessarily calls for reflections and developments, within the framework of the consultation currently being conducted by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health on the reform of the health system and on territorial governance. Some, on these benches, called for the outright suppression of regional health agencies. Yet they have not demerited; I saw him myself in my department of the Hauts-de-Seine. They must be preserved, but I believe that their way of functioning, their territorial location and their autonomy must be rethought in order to bring them closer to the territories and to the local reality, and to better link their action with the deconcentrated services of the State, on the one hand, and local elected officials, on the other, who must be more involved and informed, especially in times of crisis. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us whether the consultation that takes place within the framework of the Ségur de la santé will incorporate the necessary reform of the organisation of RHAs, by focusing, as you said, on trust and proximity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u224	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u225	Madam Member, thank you for pointing out, as one of your colleagues elected in the Ardennes did earlier, the quality of the work done by your ARS interlocutors. You have placed yourself in the spirit of the debate by stressing their daily commitment, while noting that we can still move forward and that we must consider governing differently, better involving local elected representatives, and being more involved with the territories. Nothing can be done on the ground without the four-way alliance of RHAs, elected representatives, health professionals and representatives of users. This alliance should allow for a review of the reality of the actions on the ground and the policy to be carried out within the SRAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u226	Mr. Jacques Krabal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u227	First of all, congratulations to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health for the action it has taken. Obviously, if we have overcome the pandemic, it is also thanks to the mobilization of all caregivers. The crisis has shown the strength of the country's hospital network, but also the importance of the role played by small and medium-sized hospitals alongside the CHUs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u228	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u229	This is the case with the hospital of Château-Giry; Let's not forget it. I welcome the decision, taken within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, to pay an exceptional premium to all hospital staff; But when's his payment to the EHPAD staff? Moreover, what is expected is also the wage enhancement of carers' careers and the rehabilitation of hospitals. The hospital of Château-Thierry has not been the subject of heavy work for forty years. The premises are inadequate, especially those of the emergency department. Mr Secretary of State, how will this work be financed? Let me think about a few more things: when HHTs do not correspond to coherent living pools, we must not hesitate to see them again. Oversight boards, where parliamentarians need to find a place, should be considered at the level of inter-communities rather than the city level. As for RHAs, they should not only be assessment bodies, but should take action at the community level, in partnership with hospitals, to better take into account the needs of the population. It must be acknowledged: that is what has been done for the past year. Mr Secretary of State, what timetable do you have in place to modernise our public hospitals so as to ensure that all citizens have a genuine equality of care?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u230	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u231	In addition to the need to be reassured about the premium commitments, I mean in your question the willingness to know whether Ségur will be synonymous with investment. You may already have in mind the Government's decision to take over one third of hospital debt in order to free them from some of their financial constraints. There is no doubt that the reflections that will take place in the context of the Segur of Health will provide opportunities, as health also needs means. This part will therefore be dealt with. You also asked me when the premiums would be paid. In a circular dated 5 June 2020, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, issued instructions to the RSAs to ensure that they are paid as soon as possible. Through my contacts in my former constituency of Armentières, I know that some will receive their bonus by the end of June, others in July. In any case, it will be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u232	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u233	As you know, for ten weeks during the crisis, I volunteered with the ARS of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur as a health reservist. I was able to see from the inside the functioning of these agencies, which play a central but unknown role in health policy. I would therefore like to share my remarks with you and suggest some ways to improve the effectiveness of our health care system. It seems to me that what should guide our reflections is the strategy that we want to develop to deliver relevant and quality care. The crisis has shown that health insurance is capable of establishing a guarantee scheme for the financing of institutions. However, those who are experiencing significant liquidity pressures are now obliged to seek the support of the banks, who are paying for these services. In order to prevent the use of external support and in the interests of good management, could a more effective system be envisaged, allowing primary health insurance funds to make advances to institutions identified as priority by the SROs? Should we not rely on negotiated multi-annual trajectories, including the possibilities of borrowing, rather than resorting to iterative manoeuvres for both guardianship and territorial hospital groups in each operation? In addition, during the health crisis, it was possible to relax the rule of public order that payment can only be made after the service has been established and verified. This adaptation, which has enabled rapid, time-consuming delivery of equipment and medicines, should be sustained. Similarly, it would be useful to create an " accordion beds" system based on an identified team: it would allow for rapid expansion of reception capacity without having to maintain permanently unoccupied beds and, if the links between liberal and hospital staff were strengthened, to be more responsive when the situation so requires. Mr. Secretary of State, here are some practical ways of making our health care system flexible enough to deliver quality care regardless of the health context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u234	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u235	First of all, I would like to say a word for all those who, like you, have committed themselves to the health reserve; All those who put on the phone and computer to put on the blouse again – I know there are on all the benches. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group. – Mr Brahim Hammouche and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud.) This is a new example of our agility. Moreover, our fellow citizens expected national representation to lead by example. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Member, for sharing with us the fruits of your experience. I am short of time to come back to each of your very concrete proposals, which I acknowledge on behalf of Olivier Véran. You are wondering about any room for manoeuvre on the part of hospitals with regard to their debt: as I recalled earlier, the Government has committed itself to taking over some of it, so as to free institutions from certain financial constraints. The Ségur de la santé will undoubtedly be an opportunity to reflect on an investment plan. The work that is being done here should also satisfy some of your concerns, which I know are inspired both by your experience and by the links you continue to have with the hospital community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u236	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u237	During the health crisis, RSAs played an essential role in coordinating all the actors involved: public hospital, liberal medicine, EHPAD and local authorities. This is particularly true in Val-d'Oise. Again this morning, I was in Argenteuil, in my constituency, alongside the Minister of Solidarity and Health, to attend a "go to" operation organized by the ARS of Île-de-France in order to detect populations far from the traditional care path. These operations, organized throughout the country, are essential and will, I believe, contribute to the outbreak. The crisis also highlighted the shortcomings in the organisation of the public hospital. In my constituency of Val-d'Oise – but the problem of medical desertification is in fact general – it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit interns or doctors. In fact, the public hospital is increasingly based on FFIs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u238	Oh, the FFIs! What about the FTPs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u239	... these foreign doctors "acting as interns". Finally, we must give these people a status that allows them to work properly. We also need to make our procedures more effective. It was their respect that delayed the implementation of the major restructuring project to which the Argenteuil hospital works in partnership with the ARS and the central administration. Of course, these procedures are necessary for everyone to be treated in the same way, but there is an urgent need to carry out this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u240	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u241	You recalled that you were with Olivier Véran this morning for a "go to" operation. This expression reflects the desire to find the best possible ways to allow everyone, if they wish, to be tested. The action in which you have participated also illustrates the need to offer community-based care, including for the benefit of our fellow citizens who, because of lack of knowledge or resources, do not currently have access to it. It is also in the name of proximity that you plead the cause of the hospital of Argenteuil. I have noted that it is necessary to carry out this new project. As I have said on several occasions, in particular to your colleague Mrs Rossi, this issue of investment concerns many hospitals, and the Ségur de la Santé will give us the opportunity to draw up a plan on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u242	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u243	A year of historic strikes by hospital staff would not have been enough: the worst health crisis in a century had taken place before the Government would end by hearing the need to reform the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u244	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u245	The Ségur de la santé, although organized late, must be ambitious in order to meet the expectations of the renovation of the public hospital. Hospital staff were already in arrears, they are exhausted by the lack of resources...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u246	They have no way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u247	... and by a mode of operation which is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u248	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u249	Indeed, there is a real organizational problem which worsens an already damaging understaffing situation. The red tape and the weight of the hierarchy combine with increasing needs and lead to infernal rates of work. It is therefore necessary to relax the hierarchical pyramid in order to rationalize the wage bill in order to move towards more efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u251	This will allow for the recruitment of carers and the upgrading of their remuneration. There is also a need to correct the trend in rural areas and to put an end to the gradual decriminalization of small hospital facilities. This will involve a densification of the grid of the public hospital in rural areas:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u252	We need local hospitals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u253	... in these territories, the closures of emergency services and other hospital specialties devitalize small hospitals – such as that of Saint-Vallier, in my constituency of La Drôme – that are then threatened with disappearance. This is unacceptable, not only because it aggravates medical desertification,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u254	You have to be careful about that, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u255	...but because these small hospitals showed during the crisis that proximity allowed rapid mobilization of resources. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, will you take advantage of the exceptional opportunity offered by the Ségur de la santé to reform the public hospital by giving priority to healthcare workers and by improving the presence of this public service in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u257	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u258	Even if I don't think that your comments made that sense, I will remind you that the current situation in the hospital is not just a matter of policies that have been carried out since 2017. No matter what bench you sit on, you cannot ignore the reality of medical demography. I would not like to remind everyone of their votes on this subject, including in the pre-2012 legislatures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u259	Let's look in front of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u260	I make this remark without any polemics. That being the case, as the minister has admitted, and as I have repeated several times today, it is indeed necessary to improve careers in the hospital; You are right to say that this will require a nation's effort; and you are right to say that this subject must be resolved as soon as possible. In any event, the Ségur, which opened a few days ago, is due to issue its findings in mid-July. It is a matter of not delaying decisions to a far too distant date, but at the same time giving time for consultation. Caregivers know very well what they want and they have in mind proposals that can give the hospital an effective organization while allowing dynamic careers. We agree that in order for this organization to evolve, we must remain attentive to the local reality. Unlike you, I do not know exactly the situation of the hospital in Saint-Vallier. But let us never forget that politicians and elected officials have a duty to ensure the safety of hospital users, which requires a return to a dynamic medical demography.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u261	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u262	The goal of the Secur de la santé is to learn from the crisis and to reshape the health system. We are several parliamentarians who have already participated in the meetings organized by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. They provide an opportunity for in-depth exchanges. You are well aware of the situation of hospitals and the expectations expressed in terms of wage increases, career prospects and working time. Answers will have to be provided, and I hope they will live up to expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u263	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u265	During the crisis, I measured the responsiveness of the institutions to organize reception and care services, mobilize staff – whose commitment was admirable – and find protections such as masks, blouses and others. The leaders of our hospitals, the directors, but also the administrative and technical teams as well as all the caregivers have shown flexibility, agility and, in a way, freedom in the management of their institutions, because the crisis allowed them to do so. In a way, it's a new model of a hospital that has gradually developed. I would therefore like to know whether this new model could inspire the reform that you need to undertake. I also expect answers from you on local hospital groups. My experience with the GHT Rhône Nord Beaujolais Dombes, in my city of Villefranche-sur-Saône, has shown me the importance of GHT in coordinating public and private institutions as well as in supporting public and private EHPADs. HRGs are effective relays for RHAs and make it possible to connect with the territorial professional health communities – CPTS – i.e. with liberal professionals. What weight and role will you give to the GHT in the future? With regard to the SRAs, some of which are calling for the disappearance, I hope that a new form of governance will emerge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u266	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u267	Absolutely! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u268	... both with the regions as regards health facilities and with the departments as regards EHPADs. To change our system in the right direction, we must finally better involve local elected officials, who are local actors and know their territory: they know where medical needs and deserts are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u269	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u270	Thank you for sharing with us the example of the GHT of your city of Villefranche-sur-Saône. I remembered that in preparing this debate, but I also remember the time when I was a Member of Parliament: that means that you had already mentioned this interesting subject. Yes, THGs are very important: they played a significant role in the health crisis. It was within the HHT that there were patient transfers, individual protection sharing, exchange and organization. This link is therefore very important, and you were right to stress it. There are many more THGs than Villefranche-sur-Saône, but this is an example that speaks to you and that you have described with energy – in any case, I admit that it is a good model. What I will tell you now, Mr Perrut, also applies to the Members who spoke before you. Thank you for pointing out that parliamentarians were involved and contributing to the Ségur de la santé. Our debate today, which I have prepared very seriously to replace the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who could not be present, will be devoted to the work of the Ségur de la Santé. The comments made and the questions put this afternoon will therefore contribute to our reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u271	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u272	As has already been said, the covid-19 pandemic has mobilized all caregivers, who have shown exemplary dedication. I would like to thank them very sincerely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u273	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u274	Indeed, because their commitment must not remain in vain, we must learn all the lessons from this unprecedented crisis, which has brought to light some shortcomings in our health system. In this context, Mr Secretary of State, we must reaffirm – I say "reaffirm" – the central role of community hospitals, especially in rural areas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u275	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u276	... that offer our fellow citizens quality care and care, close to their homes. These hospitals are essential for the maintenance of life in these territories; Therefore, their sustainability must be ensured. More broadly, Secretary of State, the governance of the public hospital must also be rethought. If, of course, regional health agencies are indispensable, as we have seen during this crisis, not all powers can be entrusted to RHAs. As well, local elected representatives and all the actors in our health system, who know their territory and the expectations of their populations, must be able to put a real impact on the strategy of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u277	That is necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u278	I take the concrete example of the hospital in Brioude, Haute-Loire: it is thanks to the commitment of all the forces, elected representatives and health professionals that we have managed to obtain a scanner essential to the operation of this hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u279	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u280	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We salute the merit of the local actors and express our gratitude to them. We know that their mission is essential for the life of the nation. So, Mr. Secretary of State, can you assure us that they will be involved in future strategies for the development of community hospitals, both on financial and technical issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u281	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u282	Thank you, Mr. Vigier, for highlighting the importance of community hospitals as well. I know you're very concerned and committed to this. Let me first make a small reminder. We have already discussed this issue during the review of the Health System Organization and Transformation Bill, which reflected the "My Health 2022" plan. You remember, we've sanitized local hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u283	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u284	The Ministry of Solidarity and Health has chosen to protect these hospitals, in particular to guarantee them against any decline in activity. I know that you recognize him and that you share that goal, which you are right to defend. We all see in our territories that these community hospitals make sense: they guarantee adequate care and ensure the necessary territorial networking. You would like to hear a commitment from the minister on the bench on the role of elected officials. You defended them well, and I heard your call. I will not make any commitments here – I know that in essence, you did not really expect them and that you simply wanted to pass on your message, which I received well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u285	The message's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u286	As Mr Perrut pointed out earlier, it is appropriate to associate, whenever possible, elected representatives who know their territory with the management of community hospitals, which are a jewel in our care offering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u288	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u289	I want to go back to the covid bonus for hospital staff. The maximum amount of EUR 1500 has been decided for all hospitals in the very affected departments, which seems quite normal, but the selection of establishments in the departments less affected by the covid is a real problem. One can even speak of injustice, as the differentiation between hospitals is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u290	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u291	In a department such as Orne, almost all hospitals are listed or will be included in Schedule 2 of the Decree. However, this will not be the case for those in Flers and Argentan, two hospital centres which have been at the heart of the Ornais mechanisms for combating covid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u292	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u293	Look for the mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u294	The Argentan hospital, for example, has received more than 400 symptomatic patients; A covid unit of fourteen beds was opened, which welcomed more than 250 patients. As for the hospital of Flers, a hospital supporting the GHT covering more than 100,000 inhabitants, i.e. one third of the department, it has been fully mobilized, increasing the number of resuscitation beds, dedicating a whole floor to covid patients, welcoming patients from Ornais but also other regions, coming in aid of a neighbouring EHPAD turned cluster. The efficient and virtuous management aimed at releasing quickly covid beds occupied by patients with a non-serious form of disease to meet emergency needs today penalizes the hospital centre of Flers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u295	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u296	... which does not meet the criteria you have defined and even revised, which promote flows rather than good practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u297	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u298	You'll tell me the occupancy figures are objective. Of course, but they do not reflect the reality of staff involvement because they do not take into account the mode of operation of covid units that have favoured patient rotation and redirection. This penalizes Flers and Argentan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u299	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u300	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u301	While the staff of these two hospitals have given the best of themselves, they live as an immense injustice their ineligibility to the maximum premium while neighbouring hospitals, sometimes belonging to the same GHT, are included in the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u302	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u303	Mr Secretary of State, on the eve of the Ségur de la Santé, it is absolutely necessary to give a signal other than that sent today with this inexplicable and unacceptable differentiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u305	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Valérie Rabault also applauds]] Please review these criteria so that the personnel who have actually mobilized are recognized in the mission they have carried out with courage and professionalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u306	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u307	I know you've been very active – your question still shows – to get you to explain the differences in premium levels and to have the commitment of health care workers in hospitals in your constituency recognized. I recognize the importance of this proximity. You didn't win the case, so you're asking me about it. Perhaps we can all agree that all healthcare workers will be recognized in the award of this 500 euro premium. I understand, Mr. Nury, that's not the answer you were waiting for...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u308	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u309	... – I was not hoping that you would applaud me – but I invite you, as well as the entire national representation, to admit that the nation clearly recognizes, through this bonus, the commitment of all caregivers. It is true that another level of premium has been paid, particularly in the most exposed departments. You argued for your electoral district by explaining how it could have been affected, but the decisions made will not be changed. I understand that the criteria have seemed to you complex and not sufficiently explicit. I will not detail them here, but I am at your disposal to come back, if you wish, because we still need to get along. For the healthcare staff of hospitals in your territory as well as for those of our country as a whole, we will quickly rewrite the career paths and revisit the salaries. I said earlier that the commitment of the Minister of Solidarity and Health was explicit. I hear what you're saying about the bonus, but I also know that the nursing teams in the hospitals you're talking about are very attentive to their career paths and long-term pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u310	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u311	My questions relate to the reform of the governance of SRAs. Legions are the diagnostics that highlight the difficulties of steering and governance of these agencies, the armed arm of the state at the level of the region in health. The bureaucracy, the lack of health democracy and the lack of territorial anchor exacerbated by a disharmony configuration of the large regions are prominent; the health crisis will have highlighted them with even more bitterness. We need to move towards more territorialised, more girondine cooperation of health competence. The German example is very eloquent. It seems to us fundamental to reverse the deterritorialised and univocal logics that are constantly in the direction of a single doctrine: the control of expenditure and the reduction of resources. In addition to this strategy of lean management, we could mention many time-consuming administrative harassments for professionals, who suffer from a lack of consultation and a lack of attention to the clinical concern of the daily lives of patients. In my view, the evolution that I call for of my wishes is a reversal of paradigm and a closer involvement of the departmental authorities and the communal bloc in the governance of the RHAs, especially since the local authorities, within their sphere of competence, act very largely on the health, social, environmental and cultural determinants. So my questions are as follows. Are you prepared to meet the expectations of local elected officials, parliamentarians, care professionals, health institutions, representative organisations and users, who wish to participate effectively in this multidisciplinary governance so that the RHAs fully fulfil, without a priori doctrinal, their public service mission of organising care as closely as possible to the needs of the population and that they define in a coordinated manner, at the departmental level, a territorial health strategy? Are you ready to replace the cost of governance and the exponential control system that accompanies it, greedy with audit firms and consultants, with the taste of the relationship of trust with the actors of care, the same one who presided over the day-to-day management of this crisis? Are you ready to put women and men of art, with their in-house skills, at the heart of our device? Are you ready to engage further in RSA governance reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u312	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u313	You want to come back to a subject that we have already addressed, that of governance, which, as you know, is one of the pillars of the Segur of Health. You go a little further by talking about the governance of SRAs. You are wondering how we can make these agencies more agile, more flexible. You wonder how they are driven and how they embody national health policies, which are set out in regional health policies – this decline is the assurance, for all of us here and for you, the nation's representatives, that our health policy is consistent in its objectives while being adapted to the reality of the territories. This last element is important, and you have highlighted it in your question. You would like to know whether the Government wishes to go further in this transformation. In any case, the Government is open to our thinking together, to what we seek and find other forms of governance. Several examples have been given prior to your intervention – the declination of local health plans has been mentioned. That's all we put on the table as part of the Segur of Health. Your contribution will be included.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u314	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u315	My question concerns the management and redistribution of medical equipment collected by the regional health agencies in order to remedy the shortcomings found in the health and social sector. The work of Liberal nurses, in particular, has been and continues to be essential during confinement. Yet, in my region, and in my constituency in particular, deficiencies in equipment – overblouses, protective goggles, charlottes – have been reported, not to mention masks. Hydro-alcoholic solutions have also been lacking. However, the ARS had collected material, based on the decree of 13 March, amended on 20 March, to facilitate redistribution to professionals. However, these donations would have been mainly or exclusively redistributed to hospitals – in any case, in my constituency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u316	In mine too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u317	... resulting in a glaring shortage for professionals who were in the front line of the fight against the virus. Many Liberal nurses have had to adapt to the challenges of almost creating their own donation collection system, reaching out to the local population and businesses. Solidarity has worked and these calls have often been answered. Unfortunately, the amount of material collected has not always been sufficient. It is important to learn from this crisis, to welcome the successes, of course, and the many expressions of solidarity that have led to a real resilience in our territories. But it is also important to point out what has not worked, or what has happened in a less satisfactory way, in order to understand the reasons for malfunctions and to change our practices. I would therefore particularly like to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, about this: why have donations been redistributed to hospitals, leading to an insufficient supply of liberal nurses – in any case in my territory? We need to take more account of these professionals whose proximity action has been and will always be essential to combat this crisis – perhaps also against the future – and in general to act for the benefit of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u318	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u319	You highlight a malfunction or, in your own words, an issue that has been raised in your constituency. I would like to reiterate that the Liberal nurses were able to have masks at the beginning of the crisis. The decree of 16 March clearly states that they must be able to benefit from up to eighteen masks per week, i.e. three masks per day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u320	That wasn't the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u321	From the beginning, they were identified as a population for individual protection. In particular, you refer to the specific subject of donations. I was able to observe that there were also some in my department, as no doubt in all the others. They were the fact, in particular, of public works companies that had masks – sometimes even FFP2 masks. However, I would like to point out that, except in exceptional cases, these donations represented insignificant amounts in relation to the flow of State orders; I specify that it was the volumes that were not significant, and not the spirit of the gift in itself. By mid-March, the state had planned just over 20 million masks for liberal caregivers; They could be recovered from pharmacies. Then the quantities increased and these volumes now amount to more than 40 million per week. I do not have any information about the particular situation you are referring to. I have taken note of it and will refer to it with the office of the Minister of Health. I propose that we exchange this specific case together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u322	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u323	The health crisis we are experiencing has raised many questions about the management of our health system. The functioning of the SRAs, which had already been regularly called into question in the context of the review of social security financing bills, was strongly criticized. Some of my colleagues did not fail to propose to you to change their governance in the direction of greater proximity to each department and to the elected representatives. While the consultation of actors is at the heart of the ARS's missions, particularly through departmental delegations, it must be noted that it is not always easy. The actors feel that they are well understood at the departmental level, but the regional level is very technocratic, which sometimes leads to a loss of meaning – and common sense. However, this crisis will have had at least one positive consequence: it has simplified the contacts between the actors and made the decisions more operational; In any case, that's what I've seen in the Yvelines department. The health emergency has led, in the health field as in many others, to more direct contacts, with the aim of faster decision-making. Beyond the health crisis, our health system is in a long-term crisis. The Ségur de la santé will work on the answers to our questions on this subject. If we want the projects that we are launching to achieve results, we will necessarily have to promote communication in the service of reform: it must be more fluid, direct, and focused on decision-making and its implementation. Mr Secretary of State, is this issue well perceived by the Ministry of Health? How do you intend to ensure that the way in which the institutions, particularly the SRAs, communicate is at the service of the urgent need for reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u324	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u325	To prepare for this debate, I have read a number of documents, including a note on social media publications. On a professional network, I read a message published by the ARS communication assistant; She expressed her pride in the commitment of her colleagues who worked six or seven days a week, from morning to evening, to find solutions to a large number of exceptional situations caused by the health crisis. I know that neither you nor the colleagues who preceded you question it, but I want to mention and thank all the employees of the SRA for their commitment. Beyond this, we must move forward in agility and simplify our operations. As you said, there is no point in doing administrative for administrative purposes. We have lost time and will lose more time tomorrow if we do not change our perspective. You are precisely inviting us to evolve on this subject. However, I would like to highlight one point that I have seen by participating in exchanges between the Ministry and the RHAs: they activated their crisis cells very early during the health crisis, bringing them together very often twice a day. So they also showed agility. We probably didn't all see it, in some cases. In any event, the subject is on the table and I would like to reassure you, Madam Member, of the commitment of all the employees of the RHAs and of their willingness to make progress. I take note of your remark, which joins one of the topics we will address during the Segur of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u326	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u327	Despite the action of all the care staff, the crisis of the covid-19 revealed the shortcomings of our health system, as well as the fragility of the public hospital and the medical-social institutions. These institutions are severely constrained by budget constraints and are facing an increase in attendance. In 2018, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) reported an inexorable 3.5% annual average increase in the number of emergencies since 1996. The crisis will at least have had the merit of temporarily putting the caregivers back at the centre of the organization of services and care. As large hospital centres as small community hospitals, all structures have played a role in effectively combating the pandemic. The role and needs of the public hospital must, of course, be considered in the context of a comprehensive health policy that we wish to see achieved from any notion of financial profitability and equal performance between the territories. Too many community hospitals have experienced cuts in services and beds, which has created inequality among populations according to their place of residence. Even today, emergency services lack resources and are, for some, doomed to disappear. In rural and peri-urban areas, people are concerned about the implementation of such projects that are contrary to the interests of the people. Regional health agencies have a role to play in defining this new policy, but, despite the goodwill of their agents, their task of steering territorial health policies is unfortunately too often perceived as restrictive. We therefore expect the SRAs to be able to constitute a genuine stage of dialogue between the territories and the national level, in order to ensure equal access to care throughout the territory. This may also include governance reform. Our public care system must be based on three pillars: better coordination between city medicine and the hospital; public hospitals strengthened in all territories to accommodate users attached to them; Finally, hospitals with functional emergencies, services capable of dealing with epidemic and climate accidents – which are likely to become more frequent – as well as services specialized in chronic diseases, which often affect the elderly. It is also essential to engage in a major salary upgrading of all trades in our hospitals and to better allocate human and financial resources to put an end to medical deserts. Mr Secretary of State, does the Government intend to take up these common-sense proposals to meet the chronic and structural needs of our territories and hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u328	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u329	No doubt it is the advantage of passing among the last: you have raised, through your question, almost all the subjects on which we have worked together tonight. You thus underline the challenge of proximity, which we have addressed on several occasions. I know that you are fully aware of this, but you will understand that I must also remind the national representative that the safety of our fellow citizens in the hospital requires the effective presence of doctors and staff in a position to treat them. But we are confronted with a reality that you yourself encountered when you were in the majority, that of medical demography. For our fellow citizens, the only rule that matters is this: are we able to ensure their safety when entering an emergency service or a specialized service? The material means are certainly necessary, but, as you know, it is the human means that are in question today. It takes time to train our doctors and nurses. Finally, I will conclude with the question of the revalorisation of wages. I think we will agree on that. I know that you support the process of reviewing career paths, career prospects in the hospital and, of course, remuneration – undoubtedly starting with the smallest ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u330	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u331	I thank the UDI-I Group for putting this debate on the agenda of the monitoring week. But for it to be of real interest, your answers, Secretary of State, must be precise. I therefore propose that you answer yes or no to the questions I am asking you. First question: Is the white plan yes or no? It has been found that it is in some areas, but not in others, and some institutions – including clinics and hospitals – lack instruction. Yes or no, is this plan lifted, and is it everywhere? Second question: if the white plan is lifted, can you tell us if some establishments are experiencing a shortage of propofol, this product is used in anaesthesia? This would seem incomprehensible since the number of patients still present in the resuscitation services, which is communicated to us every night, is fortunately decreasing. The third question – which concerns the past this time – is that some covid centres have been set up in our territories on the initiative of general practitioners. Yes or no, do you find it normal that this initiative had to be subject to the agreement of the Director General of the SRA and that its response only arrived after several weeks – if ever? Fourth and final question: yes or no, have the regional directorates of companies, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE – of some departments been right to refuse employees in private clinics to apply the partial activity scheme? I found that it had been accepted in Haute-Garonne, but not in my electoral district of Tarn-et-Garonne. Is a similar distinction between two neighbouring departments acceptable?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u332	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u333	President Valérie Rabault offers me an interesting opportunity for a debate, since she had already asked me about the same questions in the debate on medicines. In fact, your question relates to the resumption of activity in hospitals: is the white plan stopped? Can ordinary surgical activity resume? You probably remember that the consumption of curares and other products used in anesthesia had exploded, with an increase of more than 2000 %.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u334	What about today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u335	On the question of whether the activity was likely to resume under such conditions, I replied, less than two months ago, that we would need at least two months to replenish the stocks. You will at least recognize the merit of consistency in my remarks; I confirm that several weeks will still be necessary. However, these products are indeed essential to carry out a large-scale surgical activity, so it cannot be completely resumed. That is why the white plan is not stopped, which answers your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u336	What about the partial activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u337	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u338	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u339	In 2021, we will celebrate the thirty years of the law of 31 July 1991 on hospital reform, which was followed by an impressive set of texts and political decisions, and then thirty years of hospital transformations in a productivist logic that have produced some improvements, but above all a lot of damage. Despite the demands of the caregivers, it took this health crisis to finally make us aware of the catastrophic situation in our health system. Numerus clausus, medical desertification in the territories, working time, wages, financing, deleveraging, closures of beds, governance, inadequate stocks of protective equipment, tense situation in the hospital and in the territories before the crisis: the epidemic of coronavirus revealed our weaknesses, as the report of the information mission of the National Assembly pointed out. This crisis will, however, have, and very fortunately, confirmed that public and private institutions could work together for the good of the population. I still have in mind the many interventions made by representatives of private institutions regretting that they were not asked from the beginning. Since its inception in 2009, the SRAs seem to have never been unanimous. Often judged biased by the private sector, marked by their bureaucratic nature or their remoteness from the ground, these agencies suffered the most violent health crisis in their short history. Their difficulties in managing the emergency during the covid-19 crisis were highlighted at a roundtable in the Senate. It is not a question of calling people into question, everyone has done their best in this crisis, but it must be admitted that malfunctions have taken place, denounced by local elected officials. As we all see, the pandemic situation has not been anticipated. We have a duty to learn from our mistakes, and to see, through such a crisis, that the health and life of people do not belong to the merchant sector – the neoliberal logic cannot therefore be applied. In this context of budgetary and social tensions, after thirty years of hospital reforms, will you, with the "Segur plan", have the real will to heal and heal the hospital and the health system as a whole, listening to those who know, that is, the caregivers, rather than the technocracy and the financial ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u340	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u341	I am grateful to you, Madam Member, that you do not provoke controversy by opposing the various actors in our health system. You're asking me about the role of RSAs; I would not like to conclude this exchange without going back to the innovative actions they have carried out in certain circumstances. One wondered about their ability to get out of the administrative carcan, but looking at what has been accomplished concretely, one can note the creation of follow-up cells of transferred patients; increasing national capacity for PCR testing by granting authorisations to research laboratories and veterinary laboratories, so that we are now able to carry out almost 700000 of these per week; the organisation of operations to encourage the inhabitants who wish to come and be tested directly – Mrs Lazaar spoke of this; support for EHPAD... The ARS also coordinated the tracing contact, in conjunction with health insurance and the prefectures, and helped to ensure that public and private actors in the territories worked in good intelligence. I do not want to make an inventory at the Prévert, but simply point out that we can progress together in our approach to managing the care project when it is locally declined, and recall that the agents of the RHAs have mobilized to allow us to move through the course of this exceptional health crisis in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u342	We have completed the sequence of questions on the organization of the public hospital and the role of regional health agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1227.u343	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Debate on mask management between 2017 and 2020; Discussion on the evaluation of public policies on access to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
