ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on the exit from the state of emergency (No. 3077, 3092).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u3	In March, in an emergency situation that everyone is experiencing, we proposed that you build an emergency regime to deal with an emergency health disaster. It was necessary, and no one today thinks, after all these weeks of relentless struggle against a deadly virus, that the state of health emergency was an unjustified fantasy. A state of emergency has a duration, justified by the circumstances; It has a beginning and an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u4	Except North Korea!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u5	We must all remain extremely vigilant and organize our life together with the presence of this virus. The monitoring of the health situation, which gives us a very fine idea of the circulation of the virus, the new contaminations and the areas at risk, confirms this every day: in the territories still epidemic like Guyana and Mayotte, in the case of grouped contaminations, such as those recorded in Normandy and Occitanie, or in places of viral diffusion, as in Sarcelles, in Val-d'Oise, our vigilance must remain complete to prevent the spread of the virus and, above all, take appropriate measures. As you know, these measures are based on respect for barrier actions, social distancing and our testing strategy, which allows for the deployment of very broad diagnostic and screening programs. Further action could be taken if the epidemic situation returned. If the bulk of the epidemic wave is behind us, it does not mean that the epidemic is over or that it cannot ever resume in our country. In this sense, the analysis of the situation must allow us not only to anticipate, as in Asia in particular, a possible epidemic recovery, but above all to strengthen our level of vigilance. China has closed all schools in Beijing and suspended all commercial flights, which shows that no one is immune to an epidemic recovery. Tools are needed to combat it. Through this approach, we will be able to better track and control the long-term circulation of the virus. The Government will not request a further extension of the state of emergency. It will end on 11 July, a date chosen by parliamentarians. However, this exit from the state of emergency must be organised, because vigilance is still in place and many measures are still needed in the coming months. We must show responsibility: if it no longer appears justified to retain all the measures related to the state of emergency, abandoning some of them would be tantamount to thinking that the risk of a resumption of the epidemic is zero. However, these risks exist, and a hasty exit from the state of emergency would only increase them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u6	It's especially good for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u7	Many of the provisions of this bill have been debated or amended. Some have been modified. These included the end of the transitional regime, which we had set for 10 November and which the majority members wanted to move forward on 30 October. In the transitional regime there remain measures of relevance to all, including those – we are many in this case – who are not epidemiologists. What are these measures? First, there is the restriction of movement and the regulation of the use of means of transport; then supervision of the opening of establishments receiving from the public; Finally, the restrictions on assembly. Most other measures of the state of health emergency may apply, but under the conditions of the common law of the public health code or the commercial code, in particular for the regulation of prices. In any event, the entire system will have to be reviewed by 1 April 2021, when Parliament provided for the cessation of the entire state of health emergency regime, so that it can be reconsidered in the light of the experience gained and, if all goes well, when the health crisis will be behind us. The exit from the state of emergency that we are building through this bill is not a "dry" exit, because we do not want to act as if we were permanently immune from the risk of epidemics; Moreover, none of the countries similar to ours do. The state of health emergency has been voted on by Members, who have always, rightly, been very vigilant and demanding. The state of health emergency has had a very serious impact on the economy and, above all, on the daily and personal lives of many French people. The President of the Republic did not fail to recall that we had put the health of our fellow citizens first.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u8	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u9	If it were to be done again, we would not do otherwise, for when lives are at stake, we face a test of collective truth, in which circumstances ask to indicate where our most fundamental values are. Rule 2 has raised many questions in committee and, given the number of amendments tabled, will lead to discussions in the House. The debate concerns the extension of the retention period of certain data collected by information systems, as provided for in Article 11 of the Law of 11 May 2020 extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. If the adoption, with the support of doctors, of the "contact tracing" strategy has made it possible to get out of confinement, we will not go back to the commitments made regarding the data – not only on those made towards the French, but also on those, concerning the medical secrecy, made towards the health professionals. Nor will we come back – this is the meaning of the work in committee – on the deadlines for the retention of the identifying data, which will be destroyed. In notifiable diseases, the identifying data are stored for several months and then "nicknamed", i.e. potentially identifying information is deleted. These pseudonymized data are then retained, with a view to increasing epidemiological knowledge and improving the follow-up of these often fatal pathologies. The shelf life may be up to 25 years; This is particularly the case for most notifiable and investigational diseases, such as tuberculosis. Twenty-five years! The law made mandatory the declaration of the covid -19: it is you, parliamentarians, who are at the initiative of this very good provision. For this reason, Article 2 proposes a consistent extension of the data retention period, in a pseudonymized form, for the sole purpose of epidemic surveillance and research, with the aim of better understanding the virus. These data are essential for the production of reliable indicators to monitor the evolution of the epidemic over time, such as the incidence rate of the disease, which is intended to check whether or not it is going back to certain territories, or collective immunity. We use these data every day: they allow us to estimate the evolution of the incidence by territory, to calculate the effective risk factor R, which is the reproductive factor of the virus, and to assess, territory by territory, the epidemic situation. In practice, removing such pseudonymized data only three months after collection would deprive experts of valuable analytical tools, and our country of the possibility of reacting quickly in the event of a resumption of the epidemic. I take the bet here that if that were the case in a few months and we had no epidemiological tools for analysis, you wouldn't be the last to blame us for that. Contrary to the data collected in the context of notifiable diseases, such as dengue or chikungunya, and because the current situation is singular, the prior and public opinions of the Committee of Control and Liaison Covid -19 and of the National Commission of Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – will guarantee that the extension of the shelf life, decided by decree, will be limited to the strictly necessary, for the purposes chosen. Therefore, the proposed maximum period of storage of data after pseudonymization, i.e. six months from the end of the state of health emergency, does not affect medical confidentiality or personal privacy, since it concerns only " pseudonymized" data and is far less than that of notifiable diseases – the 25-year period for tuberculosis has never been contested by any of the assemblies. A rich and interesting debate took place in this House on the occasion of the creation of SIDEP files – the information and screening system – and Contact Covid. They focused in particular on conditions of respect for medical confidentiality and breaches of private life. Some political groups had expressed a negative vote. However, a few weeks after the deployment of these tools, I have not heard of any scandal, of restricting individual and collective freedoms or of questioning these devices, which we use every day to provide the French and doctors with the information necessary to understand and monitor the epidemic. If we looked back a little, we would see that some fears, as legitimate as they were, have proved unfounded. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the health of our fellow citizens and solidarity, so that everyone is protected, that the Government has placed the fundamental values of our nation in recent weeks. If there are decisions that cost, some issues have no price. The state of health emergency will end, but our vigilance must remain intact. This vigilance is neither the chilliness nor the mark of an attachment out of pleasure to the state of emergency – of what pleasure would it be, by the way? This is our collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u10	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u11	Consideration of the draft law for exiting the state of emergency is under way. The text before us is the result of important work done by the Law Commission, which sought to clarify and regulate the transitional arrangements proposed by the Government for the post-10 July period. While the state of health emergency has proved its worth during confinement and progressive deconfinition, everyone agrees that the conditions of health catastrophe are no longer in place, it is time to get out of it. Is it necessary, after 16 weeks, to do it dryly? The Scientific Council has clearly recommended that collective measures be maintained in order to maintain our vigilance and to be able to react at any time, as the virus evolves rapidly. I am telling you quite frankly: common law is not enough to deal with this crisis of an extraordinary dimension. While the situation has improved, it is our responsibility to ensure that the improvement is confirmed in the coming weeks and months. The situation being complex – you have, Mr. Minister, referred to Occitanie, Val-d'Oise and the Overseas Territories – let us keep our speeches easy, which would make us believe that the choices we are facing are binary: an uncontrolled epidemic crisis or a total return to normal; extension of the state of health emergency or a dry exit from the state of health emergency. In the absence of unanimity, the transitional arrangements proposed to us are the only credible option. However, the discussion of the bill in committee has allowed for further refinement of the bill. It will apply from 10 July to 30 October, not until 10 November as originally planned. The measures to be taken by the Prime Minister in this context will be for the sole purpose of combating covid-19. They will relate to the movement of persons, the reception of the public in certain establishments and rallies. As far as the latter are concerned, I have proposed a new wording, which in my opinion is more adapted to the changing health situation and which takes into account the recommendations of the Scientific Council and the order issued last Saturday by the Council of State. This drafting, adopted in committee, distinguishes meetings and gatherings of a spontaneous nature in the public space from events organized pursuant to Article L. 211-1 of the Code of Internal Security. In the first case, meetings and rallies may be regulated only with a view, in particular, to ensuring compliance with the barrier measures or to regulating the number of participants. In the second case, a prior authorisation regime will ensure that the organizers have implemented the barrier measures. This obligation has only one purpose: to protect those participating in the demonstration and those who may be in contact with them. If the necessary precautions are taken – the same ones we ask the French to apply every day – then the demonstration can be held under the conditions laid down by ordinary law. Such a mechanism, guaranteeing public health and safety for all, could not be established by an order of the Minister of Health made pursuant to article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code. It is therefore necessary to provide for this in the law. The discussion of the amendments to Article 1 will give me the opportunity to detail the other useful provisions adopted in committee: restriction of the scope of individual measures; enhancing the transparency of the measures taken by the prefects; details of the procedure for appeal to the judge for interim measures; maintaining the Committee of Scientists throughout the transitional period. With regard to Article 2, the reactions of the Commissioners when they became aware of the original arrangements have sometimes been strong. However, we reached an agreement among the groups that had not opposed the creation of an information system when considering the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. This agreement is based on the fundamental difference, which can be assessed by everyone, on the one hand, between identifying data, possibly collected without the consent of the persons concerned, and, on the other hand, pseudonymized and collected data, with the consent of those persons, for the sole purpose of research and epidemiological surveillance. For these latest data – and only for them – an extension of the retention period will be possible, until next January at the latest, with the consent of the persons concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It seems to me that the committee did a useful job in examining the text. I thank the Minister for Solidarity and Health, as well as our colleagues, for our exchange of views and for the progress made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u12	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u13	The end of the state of health emergency must not make us forget the essentials. The debates that we will have at this public meeting must not forget the 29547 deaths deplored in France, the 10500 patients still hospitalized, those who suffer from the sequelae of the disease, as well as the thousands of families affected in their flesh. Here and now, I'm thinking about them. This dreadful record obliges us to hold back. It does not allow any pride, any sense of self-satisfaction. The long-awaited victory over the virus, when it happens, will not erase anything from this national tragedy. When I found that this text was on the agenda of our assembly, I thought, "Well, we are there! We are going to leave the state of health emergency, which places France in an emergency legal state. What a relief to know that we are going to regain freedom and the rule of common law! " But, when reading the text, what a disappointment! In reality, the return to normal life is not for the moment. I should have been wary of the strange title that you chose to give to the bill, minister: "Bill to end the state of health emergency."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u14	It's true that this title is strange...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u15	How could we organize the end of a state of emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u16	Yes! We can organize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u17	Whether I know, a state of emergency is in force or not; A state of emergency, you declare it or you lift it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u18	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u19	If you don't raise it, then assume that you keep it! In fact, you are simply prolonging a state of emergency that does not say its name, under the guise of a subtly chosen and dreadfully misleading title, all the more so as the Government had prepared the ground. Indeed, the law of 11 May 2020 extending the state of emergency and supplementing its provisions fixed its lifting on 10 July. As the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister jointly announced that this deadline would be held, the French have become accustomed to the idea of a return to normal life under the July sun. It was not to mention a little trick that allows you, through this text, to prolong the state of emergency while formally leaving the framework of the law of 23 March 2020 emergency to deal with the epidemic of covid -19. Of course, you will always be able to oppose me, with good reason, that we have experienced more serious in the past, especially in 2017, when it came to getting out of the state of emergency aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism. The Government then opted for the incorporation of emergency measures into ordinary law. This is not exactly the case here – I am happy to credit you. Rather, you are inventing a kind of "lighter" variant of a fixed-term exception. This is a curious third path that the Government intends to take. There was a common law and a state of emergency; There is now a new system derogating from ordinary law. We believe, for our part, that the exercise of power cannot be blurred by suggesting that the executive chooses from the map the means that it can afford. To pass the pill, the impassable argument of the transitory nature of the proposed provisions is advanced. The transient, we know when it begins; We'd like to know when it ends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u20	November 10th!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u21	You should have followed our work in committee, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u22	I was there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u23	Initially set at 10 November, the deadline for the transitional period has been reduced to 30 October by the Commission. What if the virus still circulates in France or Europe at the end of October? If the maintenance of the state of emergency is justified for almost four months, how can we not imagine that its extension will take place well beyond October 30? One could have imagined a text that really responded to the explanatory memorandum. The virus is still circulating and everyone here knows in a responsible way how much it is necessary to strengthen our vigilance, in particular by mobilizing the means to observe the circulation of the virus and to monitor the rate of contamination, as well as by ensuring that we have everything we lacked last spring: masks, breathers, tests, resuscitation beds in sufficient quantity. However, none of this can be found in your bill. Exorbitant powers retained by the executive directly target public freedoms – as if their restriction would improve our vigilance! From this point of view, your text is not only inconsistent; It gives the feeling – which is more serious – that the public power keeps under the hand of extraordinary powers, to the detriment of the French, to whom the freedoms that have been taken away from them are not fully restored. Thus, until 30 October 2020, the Prime Minister may, by decree and without the approval of Parliament, prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles, regulate the conditions of use of transport, order the temporary closure of establishments receiving from the public, prohibit assemblies on public roads and meetings of any kind. Why create this new legal regime, even though the health code offers the possibility of resorting to very broad powers in exceptional health circumstances? Madam rapporteur, you have repeatedly stated that the text does not create a new system derogating from the common law, but does not demonstrate what you have advanced. In its article L. 3131-1, the Health Code confers on the Minister of Solidarity and Health the power to take "any measures" necessary, not only to respond to a health threat, but also "after the end of the state of emergency [...], in order to ensure the lasting disappearance of the situation of health crisis". At the end of our debate in committee, I have read this article several times. There is no doubt: in this context, the Minister may take any action "in proportion to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances". Why don't you just settle for it? Why doesn't common law satisfy you? Among the measures extended by this text are those relating to the right to assemble and demonstrate. Curious decision that to keep the restrictions on this matter: we don't really see how they strengthen our vigilance! This is a fundamental right, to which everyone is very sensitive. As the French aspire to regain their full freedom, after having lived an unprecedented period of deprivation, we return it to them in small pieces! Now they are told that they will have to wait a little longer to regain their lost freedoms! Minister, you know, as I do, that our democracy is sick, that citizens' speech suffers from the lack of space given to it, and that the decision-making processes of public action are increasingly challenged. In these circumstances, the freedom to come together to express one's opinion is more than ever a fundamental freedom of our democracy. The suspension, even temporarily, presupposes compelling reasons for doing so. In the present case, however, these reasons are beyond our control. Therefore, many will see the state of emergency as a mere pretext for limiting freedoms to intriguing purposes. Even though France needs appeasement, concord, trust, freedom and new rights, you are imposing ill-advised and ill-justified measures on it! How can democratic life resume its pace, Parliament's agenda expand and the President's announcements multiply if, at the same time, vox populi is threatened with censorship? Democratic life cannot take over its rights in small, sloppy stages! The Council of State itself has restored the freedom to demonstrate, notwithstanding the state of health emergency. On this point, your text is like a provocation to him. Minister, the de-confinition of public freedoms cannot be postponed. If special circumstances, including a second epidemic wave, were to occur, you could at any time restore the state of health emergency by a simple decree issued by the Council of Ministers. The French, who have demonstrated their civicism, would understand much better if you adopted such an approach, rather than presenting this bill, suspended above their heads and disproportionate without valid reason. The President of the Republic has invited us to learn all the lessons of the crisis. Let me remember three of them, among many others. First, when a peril threatens the nation, our compatriots know how to act in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity. Secondly, democracy needs air. Even as he urgently needs a ventilator, you maintain some kind of pressure that could at any time trigger the overflows that you claim to seek to contain. Thirdly, the French' commitment to certain causes is visceral, cultural, untouchable. Nothing will prevent them from defying measures that stifle their freedom. From this point of view, if demonstrations are to take place, they will take place. Your governance by the exception will then meet its limits. For all these reasons, we believe it is urgent to get out of the emergency. An exceptional regime still stifles democracy, and carries the threat of becoming the rule. This text is only a new illustration of the "at the same time": on the one hand, the President of the Republic affirms that life resumes its rights and that the happy days are to come; On the other hand, the Prime Minister adds: "Yes, but not yet! » In this way, the French and French are no longer fools. They aspire to a full restoration of the common law. We owe it to them. If prudence is a virtue, it does not allow everything, and certainly not a hat number consisting of making believe at the end of the state of health emergency even though the essential one is preserved. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] For this reason, and for all those I have just outlined, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u24	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u25	Mr Saulignac, I will not reply in detail to your statement, because I have already spoken and we are going to have a debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u26	Unless the motion is passed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u27	However, I must say that your last sentence stings a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u28	That's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u29	And it would also sting the French, no doubt, if they were led to read the text through it alone. You say that in this text we retain the essence of the state of health emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But, Mr. Saulignac, most of the state of health emergency, in the last few weeks it was confinement; it was the limitation of individual and collective freedoms, as well as the limitation of the right to undertake; It was impossible to get married, to reunite his family for a funeral, to take the subway to work, to go to the restaurant, to open his business, to take his children to the park when it was hot and beautiful. That was the essence of the state of health emergency – and that disappears, in the text that we propose to you. Of course, we can say everything, we can try to sell what we want by using all the arguments. Nevertheless, and I say it without irony, I know the propensity to moderate the Ardéchois – which I appreciate. Show it, Mr. Saulignac! You can criticize the text. In fact, I will respond to the argument that it would be preferable to use article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code. It was that we had to act urgently; And then we had to secure the system from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We ran to Parliament, to which we submitted a first bill, and then a second one – I was there. We have heard the arguments of parliamentarians. We could have left it to the arrests I signed in my office that would put confinement in place. We made a different choice. We are the only country in which Parliament has been convened to obtain its approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u32	Two Members per group, that's not democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u33	[[Same movements]] Words make sense. When you say that this text retains the essence of the state of health emergency, it is not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u34	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u35	While under the golds of the Republic the decline of the most fundamental rights is organized, while here in Parliament, an essential and vital body, symbol of the diversity of popular dialogue, we are about to give up our very function, what are we doing collectively to protect you, children of France, today and tomorrow? [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] How many of your forefathers fell under the blows to defend what they had dearest? How many of you know a great uncle, a grandfather, or a distant relative who shed tears of revolt against the unspeakable? Children of France, what are we going to do? Are we going to fight for our daily comfort or for your future of free men and women? As our country emerges from a health crisis whose management raises many legitimate questions, we parliamentarians risk committing the irreparable for the first time: abdicate against the executive and renounce our organic role, that of balancing democracy, in contradiction with the Constitution. The state of emergency established by the text would be a progressive democratic hostage-taking, disguised under vague and, in essence, absurd pretexts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u36	Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a democratic state of emergency, we cannot stand idly by. In the face of the executive's attempt to deceive us, we cannot let the people we represent lose power. Let us assume our rule of law, be convinced and strong, and be optimistic together for the future. We're probably going to live with this virus or others for a long time. It'll never be the exception again. Children of France, you will be proud because on this day we will have been able to protect your fundamental freedoms. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will support the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u38	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u39	Fissure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u40	The slingmers have spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u41	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u42	Minister, you cannot make such arguments. In the name of the fight against the epidemic and the importance of it, you minimize the seriousness of the measures you are taking. You claim to have been exemplary by convening the Assembly whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u43	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u44	I note that the committee met in a somewhat special way to discuss texts that Members found out a few hours before their discussion – but it doesn't matter. In this case, in practice, you are prolonging a state of emergency – for a state of emergency is a state of emergency under which the executive has much broader powers than the legislative power. It allows the former to dispense with the approval of the latter. Emmanuel Macron said in his speech last Sunday that the end of the measures taken during confinement would be the rule, except for the gatherings. I am sorry, but I refuse to give the executive a blank so that it can award itself a satisfaction in matters of public freedoms in relation to other European countries. You haven't been the best in this area, minister. Yet you replay the same scene, relying on the legitimate emotion of the French in the face of the epidemic. We cannot stand to prolong the state of emergency and turn the state of emergency into a common law. Bar-point. That is a principle that we are committed to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u45	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u46	The issue of the bill before us is what the President of the Republic has called for a return to normal life. Our fellow citizens expect this return to normal life, of course, but we cannot deny the health status of our country. Of course, the epidemic has been well managed and the figures show a gradual improvement. Nevertheless, the inconsistent abandonment of health measures would be fatal. The preservation of life occupies the highest steps on the scale of freedoms. The Government must be able to act in the right direction, under the control of the National Assembly and the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u47	Marketing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u48	It's product placement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u49	The text provided that all measures should be submitted to them and that they could question the Government about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u50	That's not the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u51	Some questions remained with regard to fundamental freedoms, including personal data and the duration of the transitional arrangements. With regard to the former, the Law Commission has worked well and has evolved the text to respond to the concerns expressed. As for the second, we reduced it to match the needs of our country. Our fellow citizens would not forgive us for risking their lives for considerations of principle. The principles of proportionality and necessity are respected in the text. That is why, without difficulty of any kind, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u52	No joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u53	...which, moreover, leaves no room for debate. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I conclude with a quote from Peter Drucker: "Every time you see a successful company, tell yourself that it is because one day someone made a courageous decision." Let us take this courageous decision together today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u54	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u55	To the arguments put forward by my colleagues and relating to public freedoms, I will add one, which will form the basis of my intervention in the general discussion and which is due to what is not included in the text. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay attention to what the text means in hollows. He questions the confidence that the French can place in the common law management of the health state of our country by an executive which we will try to establish that it is now weakened. Public freedoms are not entrusted to a weak executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u56	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u57	The Group of the European People's Party is obviously not in favour of this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u58	No joke! Mr. Rebeyrotte has always been brave...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u59	This is in fact perfectly inadequate for the situation and the will of our compatriots, who, like all of us, Mr Saulignac, do not forget the victims of this terrible crisis. Our fellow citizens are asking us today to get out of the situation we have experienced with confinement as soon as possible, and then the gradual and binding deconfinination, that is to say, to get out of the state of health emergency; But we must do so by ensuring the safety of all, especially at rallies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u60	So far, it's not a complete success!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u61	If an area of our territory were to undergo a forceful return of the virus, it should be able to be identified through available and isolated data; the gatherings should be quotaed there. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The situation in China shows us that we are not immune from such an event. The agenda is at the return of our way of life, of our freedoms, of our art of living, of what makes France, in the words of the President of the Republic, but also of vigilance and security, so that this return will be lasting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u62	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u63	The text before us today is a subject of discontent – I do not hide it from you – and of questioning; It's an OPNI, an unidentified political object. If I advertise a product that may be selling a little less today, I'll compare it to Canada Dry – a drink that looks like another, but that's not really it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u64	There's quinine in Canada Dry, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u65	Of course, you have to be careful. Of course, the covid-19 is far from behind us; Too many people are still hospitalized, we still regret the deaths and events in China can encourage caution. However, you are proposing a very Byzantine text, which proclaims the end of the state of emergency, but which immediately reintroduces measures under the state of emergency. In addition, the text goes back to the important agreement we had reached, not for political reasons, but in the name of the protection of our fellow citizens, on the duration of health data retention. You have a double language: on the one hand, you claim that everything is fine and that you must prepare for the future; on the other hand, you continue to prevent demonstrations under certain conditions and to limit freedom of movement if necessary. You limit Mayotte and Guyana until the end of October, so at least until the autumn, when you could have provided for re-visiting clauses. We must, of course, prepare for the future, but we must do it step by step. Not only does the text grant you a four-month blank, which seems very long, but it does not seem up to us to prepare for the future, contrary to what you say. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Admittedly, to govern is to foresee, but not in such a form. That is why the Republican Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u66	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, to the right and to the left, I must admit that I have a little, if not a lot, difficulty in understanding you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u68	There are many things you don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u69	We have just come out of a period of genuine limitation of public freedoms. It is undoubtedly, in the history of humanity, one of the most stringent decisions in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u70	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u71	We're getting out of the state of emergency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u72	It's a fake exit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u73	... by respecting a double principle that has often been put forward on your benches: the principle of precaution and prudence. The text introduces several arrangements applicable until 10 November. Mr. Coquerel argued that the text included measures in the law in a definitive manner. Until November 10th, it's far from final!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u74	It is until 30 October, and I have spoken of an inscription in the common law. You have to read the text, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u75	[[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups – Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] We are cautious and careful. Let us imagine that we forgot these two principles, that we decided to leave the state of emergency permanently, and that in August, while we are all enjoying a moment of well-deserved rest, we had to bring Parliament together: I hear you say that we would have been reckless and inconsistent. [[Same movements]] Let's be serious! Nothing affects public freedoms in this text. It simply aims to organize the return to normal life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u76	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u77	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u78	Mr Minister, you are very busy, and I forgive you for not listening to the whole of my speech. If you had done so, perhaps you would have appreciated my temperance and my wisdom better, but you have listened to the end only and you have retained a phase that you have gone up as a pin, thus acting as a rostrum to your supporters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u79	This happens often!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u80	It's called caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u81	I reiterate that you retain essential elements of a state of emergency. You retain the deprivation of a fundamental freedom, that of gathering and manifesting. Obviously, this freedom does not seem essential to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u82	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u83	You have the right to do so, but we are a number to consider that France aspires to regain common law and that, in a democracy, the freedom to manifest according to its opinion is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u84	That's not what's missing the protests in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u85	That is my case, and that is precisely what makes the difference between the executive and some members of the opposition. I recognize, Minister, that you do not retain all the provisions of the state of health emergency. I'm still glad we can go back to the restaurant or go out on the street! However, I apologize that you maintain certain other elements without just cause. The reality is that you maintain a state of emergency – and you will not escape the trial of abuse of power. [[Mrs Claudia Rouaux and Martine Wonner applaud]] Yes to vigilance; not to measures that are completely decorated with the reasons set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u86	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u87	It is not in the habits of the Libertés et territoires group to vote on motions for rejection, so much we like to debate. It is rare, however, that all members of our group are opposed to a text. In the present case, this is the case, because the law in force is sufficient. Indeed, I would like to point out that the possibility of declaring a state of health emergency will only disappear in one year and that by then it can be reactivated by a simple decree. We also have everything we need with the provisions of article L.3131-1 of the Public Health Code. This bill is therefore of no use, except to limit the political life of our country and the possibility of demonstrating; That's the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u88	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u89	Marriages and everything related to family life will be restored, but in terms of collective life and freedom to defend one's ideas, which necessarily involves demonstrations, there will be restrictions. And we are offered nothing less than to approve it blessedly until November. Let's see! This is even worse than the laws instituting and extending the state of emergency, since we are being asked to extend it by four months at once! If ever, for example in August, that proved necessary, the Government would already be able to take all necessary measures. We do not need this bill; It's deeply useless. In 2017, when we took office, I remember that we were assured that we were not going to vote for unnecessary legislation and that we were going to do administrative simplification. With this text, we are frankly not taking the road, that is the least we can say! We will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u90	In the general debate, Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u91	In the face of this unprecedented crisis, the state of health emergency could have been much more useful. That is how I want to begin my speech: by looking at what has been achieved under the laws that instituted and extended the state of emergency. For it to be useful, it should have been used wisely and effectively to combat the health crisis, as well as its social and economic consequences. Yet there were many urgent and useful decisions to make, such as reorienting the industry by requisitioning and nationalizing the companies and production sites we needed. However, unlike the President of the Republic, who spoke on Sunday of a self-satisfaction, I have not seen any reorientation of the industry. The Famar Lyon laboratory, the Luxfer company and the Bobigny de Péters Surgical site, dedicated to the manufacture of Motin's probes, made products for medical use absolutely necessary, but they were closed, in 2019 for the first two and in June for the third. You didn't do anything to stop him. And when you talk about industrial reorientation, I hope you don't refer to the real tragicomedia that was formed by the alliance between Air Liquide and PSA to produce 10,000 respirators, which were used for anything but to treat patients with covid-19. You could also have used the state of emergency to alleviate the shortage of FFP2 masks, which continue to be missed by caregivers – but you did not. You could have used it to produce and provide masks free of charge to the general public, instead of letting the market dictate its conditions and thus see the prices of masks explode at the very moment they became mandatory – but you did not. You could have blocked food prices, banned redundancies in companies receiving state aid, better planned deconfining and its consequences, or carried out real relocations, resulting in something other than simple real estate leases – but you didn't either. I wonder, therefore, what is the point of declaring a state of emergency if you use it so badly and if you do not introduce the emergency measures necessary for the general interest, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of social and economic matters. And why should it now be extended further? Because that's what this is about. What you call "organization of the exit from the state of emergency" is nothing more than the extension, which does not say its name, of a state of emergency. After extending it for two months at the end of March, this time you would like to add another three and a half months – not four months, Mr. Balanant – but without admitting it and on the pretext that only certain provisions would be maintained. This absurd grey zone between a state of emergency and a common law is almost worse than a mere extension; It is indeed an infringement of the rule of law. What you choose is not logical or strategic in terms of crisis management or the health situation. As I said, you are throwing away everything that could have made it possible to introduce useful economic and social measures, and you would like to keep everything that would undermine fundamental freedoms. In fact, you only retain the measures restricting the freedoms provided for in Article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health, whereas in the ordinary law, in Article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health, there are the tools that would allow you, Mr Minister, to cope with a crisis that would worsen. We cannot accept that once again the gravity of a situation is used as a pretext for gradually entering a state of emergency into the common law, especially since this is not the first time that we have been hit. Basically, the logic was the same during the security state of emergency, of which you have incorporated provisions into the common law, through the law of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. You have used the fight against terrorist acts, which are so serious that any emergency measure in this regard is above any criticism, to undermine public freedoms, including the right to demonstrate. However, it was irrelevant, as you will admit, with terrorism, and therefore with the purpose of the text. With this bill, it's the same pattern that happens again. In your last speech, Mr.Véran, you said that it "picked" you that you could be accused of doing such things. However, you move from an extension of the state of emergency to the creation of a grey zone between a state of emergency and a normal situation. The next step could be to perpetuate the most dangerous measures for our freedoms. The colleague of the Republic on the move, who spoke earlier, confirmed that when he agreed that if the epidemic were to come back, something would have to be done: you will therefore continue to extend this state of affairs. We cannot accept that such a method becomes a habit. We cannot accept that you are using the health crisis and the legitimate fears it has created to do what is telling you about our laws and rights. You turned this epidemic into a serious health and economic crisis because of your unrepair and austerity policies. I do not want you to dare to use it to confine our fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u92	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u93	The text before us today at first reading is supposed to organise the end of the state of emergency, but is that really the case? Are we still in a state of emergency? In our view, nothing more than the latter justifies delegating to the Government decisions that constitute the fundamental freedoms of movement, undertaking, meeting and demonstrating. Despite our questions, no convincing answer was given to us in committee. Yet we tried to understand your reasoning, just as we wanted to be responsible and to hear the concrete needs that the Government was exposing to us. The risk of a second epidemic wave is not to be excluded, even if there is no scientific and epidemiological information so far that we can tell if it will occur. The new cases in China and the reconfiguration of several neighbourhoods in Beijing must alert us in this regard. We do not close our eyes: the summer period that opens can bring new risks. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group was therefore not opposed to the idea of finding solutions so that the Government could trigger certain exceptional measures, the time to ensure the absolute success of the exit from the crisis. We are even prepared to consider, by way of an appeal amendment, a much shorter, more supervised and focused extension of the state of emergency on the essential needs of the moment. This mechanism has the merit of having been codified and approved by the Constitutional Council, of being legally sound and of being more respectful of the separation of powers. In our view, everything is preferable to measures restricting our fundamental freedoms by regulation and for a period of four months, without any further passage to Parliament. We say it loud and clear: we are against any mechanism that would imply a regression of the place of fundamental freedoms in the hierarchy of norms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u94	But that is the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u95	We cannot agree to delegate fundamental freedoms to regulatory power. However, in that Act, the Government removed from the scope of the Act certain measures relating to these freedoms, which reduced Parliament's control over them and prevented it from referring them to the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u96	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u97	The text only provides for the information of Parliament and not for effective control on its part, which is a red line for us, which the work in committee has not allowed to be lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u98	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u99	On the other hand, with regard to your needs, Minister, we would like answers to our questions. How are the provisions already provided for in the Public Health Code, in particular articles L. 3131-1 and L. 3131-13, not sufficient? Article L. 3131-1 expressly states that "the Minister of Health may... prescribe [...] any proportionate measure [...] in order to prevent and limit the consequences of possible threats to the health of the population", including "after the end of the state of health emergency... in order to ensure the lasting disappearance of the situation of health crisis".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u101	As for article L. 3131-13, it provides that "the state of health emergency is declared by decree in the Council of Ministers", which allows for immediate reactivation in case of need during the summer. Why are we moving towards a hybrid text, towards a state of emergency which does not say its name and which has, in many respects, shaded areas, which represent so many legal risks to our fundamental freedoms? [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] Unfortunately, the work in committee has failed to respond to our fears and the adjustments made to the text are only symbolic. In short, while the presidential announcements and the title of the bill invite us to leave the state of health emergency, the content of the bill suggests that we remain there in a hijacked manner. That is why the members of the Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u102	They say we vote against it before we even start the debate? This is new!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u103	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u104	Last week, the Action Group stressed that we were in a decisive transitional phase. Once again, we are discussing dual-faced devices. On the one hand, there is the need to maintain health measures in view of the particularly unpredictable nature of the epidemic, which has not prevented some specialists from making predictions. We need to maintain that spirit and common sense health rules to protect ourselves from a virus that we do not yet know in detail in all its facets. On the other hand, there is the need to allow what we commonly call a return to life, which takes shape in particular through the exercise of our freedoms, such as those of movement, undertaking, or trading. The Council of State has recently intervened in this direction, with regard to the freedom of demonstration, in accordance with the barrier measures. This bill is the main matrix of what has been guiding public action over the past few weeks, namely the prudent resumption of a daily life, despite the fact that it has been suspended. This is a balance, because we must ensure that our fundamental rights are preserved for the long term. In other words, any infringement of these rights becomes less and less acceptable as the virus appears to be losing ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u105	You're going to make sprains with this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u106	The Action Together Group is attentive to respect for fundamental rights: the last restrictions on these rights must be motivated solely by health reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u107	There may be other intentions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u108	That is why, during the committee's examination of the laws, we considered it necessary, in agreement with the Republic on the move and the Democratic and Related Movement, to provide more guidance on the possibility of extending the retention period of the personal data collected, limiting it to the sole purpose of epidemiological surveillance and research on the virus. This is a supplementary guarantee, which reassures our group, especially since the consent of the data subject will have to be obtained, who will be informed without delay of the possibility of exercising his right of opposition and his right to erasure of the data. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] However, we remain concerned about the duration for which a specific regime will be created allowing a number of measures to be taken which are very restrictive of freedom of movement and assembly. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to speak later. The creation as such of this transitional regime seems to us to be justified and necessary in the light of the health circumstances, which continue to prevail despite the definity and return to economic and social life. The fact that this regime is in the hands of the Prime Minister after a report has been submitted by the Minister of Health also does not appear to us to raise any concerns, as the text provides that the National Assembly and the Senate will be informed without delay of the measures taken under this regime and may request further information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u109	Information is not control!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u110	It is the duration of the scheme that we consider too long. Moreover, the Law Commission justified the shortening of this period, the term of which was set on 30 October instead of 10 November,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u111	The difference is only ten days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u112	... by the fact that it is "desirable that these temporary measures should be extinguished within the shortest period of time". We would have preferred to shorten this period more significantly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u113	It's not too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u114	... but our will ran counter to the arguments that the holding of a special session in September was hypothetical and that the Senate elections should be taken into account. We therefore rely on the wisdom of the Government to apply this regime in accordance with the established rules and to inform us of its use. Given the guarantees provided for this transitional regime, the Action Together group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u115	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u116	First of all, let us bear in mind that this debate is the fruit and the expected conclusion of the unwavering mobilization of caregivers for many months, as well as of the responsible civicism of our fellow citizens. This bill should sign the exit of an emergency regime, meaning that the country regains confidence in itself and in social relations and exchanges soothed or revived by the debate of ideas or the opposition of interests peculiar to any public and democratic life. As you know, the sequence that has opened up in the country is heavy with economic and social disputes, on both an individual and a collective scale. In these circumstances, how can we interpret the maintenance, until the end of October, of prerogatives allowing the executive to suspend the freedom of movement and movement, the opening of public institutions and the ability to assemble and demonstrate? The argument that a single-handed safety net should be extended for a period of time to deal with a possible resurgence of the epidemic is a matter of concern, and that is why. We know that there is no zero risk and that epidemic outbreaks are re-emerging; This has been the case for forty-eight hours in Normandy, in my constituency – you have alluded to it, minister. But don't you now have full control of the situation? The organisation of epidemiological monitoring of the population, surveillance, detection and care are not fully operational, so that you would have little reason to put an end to fundamental freedoms without a blow, if a localized situation – I repeat the qualifier used by the rapporteur herself – were emerging? Given the experience of recent months in France and in our European neighbours, aren't you now ready to deal, normally and with the tools of the common law, with the return of a more or less active circulation of the virus? If the answer is yes, the hypothesis of the suspension of fundamental freedoms does not have its place in this bill – unlike the provisions relating to the robustness and health transparency of the follow-up of the covid -19, which have all their own. If the answer is no, it is very disturbing from a strict health point of view, and you would have no choice but to declare a new state of health emergency in the national territory. Instead, we ask you to continue to strengthen our short- and long-term care system. This is where the real response to health risks lies, to that of the covid -19 as to all others. Shortcomings in material resources, from the simplest to the most sophisticated, and deficiencies in staff in hospitals, city medicine and medical and social institutions must be addressed. That's why we're pushing you to put on the table, before the summer, the additional financial resources needed for our health care system and all of its agents. We see your delay in the answers to be given, as well as your feverishness, because you know that our economy and society would be definitively and fundamentally challenged if we were forced to resort to a second confinement. The question is therefore very political. In these circumstances, you maintain three essential provisions, which are very disparate in terms of public freedoms. However, the mere concrete reality of the next four months alone renders these provisions totally ineffective. It is a matter of regulating, limiting or even banning, first of all, travel and access to means of transport, even though the French will be on holiday in the four corners of the country or elsewhere; Second, the opening of establishments receiving from the public, including at the beginning of September, while the social and daily life of the French will resume in all its intensity; Third, public gatherings and meetings, while social tensions exist. So, is it surprising that you are being questioned about the consistency and true meaning of maintaining these Damocles swords above freedoms? For us, this text is that of a weak and weakened power, disturbed by its own action, confused by the balance sheet of its management of the crisis and defiing the French. For all these reasons, we will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u117	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u118	On July 10, the state of health emergency will have been applied throughout the national territory for nearly 13 weeks. Its implementation has enabled the Government to take the necessary measures to manage the health crisis and to organize the gradual resumption of activity. If the health situation is improving, the crisis is not behind us. Yesterday, June 16, 2020, 10535 people were still hospitalized for covid-19 infection and 820 serious cases required heavy resuscitation care. Special vigilance is therefore needed in the coming weeks. Today's debates and those in the Law Committee show this: some of us have not noticed that, since the beginning of the deconfinition on 11 May, more than 200 clusters have appeared. Let's just look at what's going on in Guyana... The situation is now under control, no doubt, but it is sensitive, and we know that it can slip. We are indeed opening a new cycle in the management of the covid-19 epidemic. This new management must allow both to meet the collective aspiration for the restoration of the common law and to maintain the capacity to act quickly in the face of a possible deterioration of the health situation. The measures contained in this text are strictly limited to this objective. We owe this requirement of limitation to our citizens – I am thinking of the victims and their families. This requirement is that of public necessity, of the general interest. I hear the oppositions; We can have disagreements. Some of you feel that the crisis has been mismanaged. We will have a debate on this subject, but the hidden trial of intent is of a serious inconsistency, because so we pass on the message that the crisis has passed; But we cannot make such a speech to our fellow citizens. In its opinion on the bill, the Council of State considers that the transitional regime as envisaged, for a limited period of time, is "sustainable to meet the needs of a prudent, graduated and controlled exit from the health emergency regime". That's pretty enlightening. I remember the interventions in the law commission, especially the conspiracy – "You want to destroy public freedoms! –, derisory dramatizations – "You want an absolute right to prohibit demonstrations! – and political approximations, with an incantatory reference to article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health, yet far removed from current needs. You're in denial of reality, that of a virus that's still there. You are in denial of what is to be read in this bill, which is simply to allow the Prime Minister, for the sole purpose of protecting public health, to take measures to preserve the health of our citizens. The draft law organises, after 10 July 2020, a transitional period...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u119	It will last longer than the state of emergency itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u120	...in which particular vigilance remains necessary to deal with a possible resurgence of the covid-19 epidemic. It is of course desirable that these temporary measures should be phased out within the shortest possible time, given the constraints involved. That is why the Group of the Republic on the move wanted to advance the end of these measures to 30 October 2020, instead of 10 November. It is only ten days, of course, but you have been ecstatic about what the Senate has reduced by thirteen days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u121	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Read the proceedings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u122	Let me finish my remarks, please. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is simply because we want the Senate, too, to be able to examine the facts and do its work. However, after the Senate elections, he will need the first fifteen days of October to install all his organs. On the other hand, to ask whether we are in a state of health emergency or not, as you did earlier, Mr Saulignac, is to call the virus before the House to say whether it exists or not. Things don't work like that! The virus is still there, it can come back, and we need a transitional period, an in-between period during which it is not necessary to retain all the prerogatives of the state of emergency health. We will also be debating the matter at a later stage, since we will have to devise a genuine health emergency regime applicable after 1 April 2021. In addition, the bill extends the retention period of data collected under the information systems established to combat the epidemic. Our group wanted to limit this extension to the sole purpose of epidemiological surveillance and research on the virus. The text is therefore now more protective. Some criticise the compromise we have found in Article 2, considering that the pseudonymization of the data, which is not their anonymization, is insufficient. However, very strict criteria are laid down for the anonymisation of the data: this consists of deleting not only the directly identifying elements – surname, first name, personal details – but also all the elements even indirectly identifying: dates, places, etc. When we want to use data for medical research purposes, to better understand and adapt to the virus – which is fundamental for us to return to a normal life – an anonymization in the strict sense is neither possible, nor feasible, nor desirable. That is why the data in this case will be pseudonymized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u123	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u124	It is time to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u125	In conclusion, we adopted in committee two additional articles aimed at adapting the measures to the situation in New Caledonia and French Polynesia. [[Isabelle Florennes applauds]] It is up to us to give our fellow citizens the legal tool necessary for the gradual and serene return to normal life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u126	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u127	There are times when it would be better not to want to get into history! Enclosing all the French at home for two months is not a decision we can boast about to the point of absolutely wanting our name to be attached to it in history books. Yet this is what happened: the French were locked up at home for two months. I will not say that at the same time, 13500 detainees were released, but the parallel should be done. But the reasons that led to this decision appear to be increasingly unclear: the president of the Scientific Council – as it is now appropriate to designate him in view of the accumulation of legislation on the subject – admitted a few days ago that the decision to confiscate had been taken for the sole reason that we had no masks or tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u128	Ah? Is that what the president of the Scientific Council said?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u129	That is what we must say to the French: they were locked up at home, because we had no masks or tests. We stopped the economic life of the country, because we had no masks or tests. We have stifled the democratic life of the country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u130	Like the Italians, the Spaniards and the Belgians!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u131	...which suits you well, minister, because we didn't have any masks or tests. That is what it is for us to say when you want, not to leave the state of emergency, but to extend exorbitant derogations from the common law, which give so much power to the Prime Minister and the Government, without real control of our people's assemblies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u132	Our "popular assemblies"?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u133	Well, the Republicans will oppose it. And you will have to report to the French on your management of the crisis, as well as on the dramatic economic and social situation in which we are going to find ourselves as the country goes down. By prolonging the state of emergency – since, in fact, it is what it does – this text is part of the continuity of your strategy of political communication on this crisis, which has been carefully elaborated. It was institutionalized when, every night, the French waited, in front of the news channels, for the Director General of Health to deliver his morbid figures to them, without them ever being really put into perspective; Never have we been given any specific clarifications or explanations about what was going on, so that we can understand, we have simply announced a series of actions that have been lost as the meaning goes on. We are now faced with even greater contradictions, in a period of debunking governed by decisions that sometimes impose the wearing of a mask, and sometimes not. If you go to a restaurant, you have to put a mask to move between the tables, but when you sit down, you can remove it – and because: if you are in a restaurant, you have to open your mouth for lunch or dinner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u134	So what? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u135	Go explain these contradictions! They have a consequence: consent to the public authority is in the process of breaking down; This is what remains of the acceptance of the role of the State. Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, you have a terrible responsibility to restore to our fellow citizens the recognition of the role and authority of the State, because your measures are no longer understood, and because they are inconsistent. I hear some colleagues refer to what our neighbours have done, but they have not used the same strategy at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u136	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u137	You'd make that affidavit under oath? You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u138	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] They did not impose a confinement as strict as we have known. I am a member of a border constituency with Germany and particularly close to Switzerland; They saw how this was happening in Germany and Switzerland, where the crisis caused fewer tragedies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u139	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u140	Citizens have certainly experienced a period of restriction of freedoms, but not as strong as in France; social life and economic life have continued and these countries will experience a much more effective economic and social breakdown than that of France. Ladies and gentlemen, because crisis management has been catastrophic, and because you want to continue to arrogate to yourself exorbitant prerogatives of common law and liberticide, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u141	Get up a few rows, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u142	I'm right where I am.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u143	It's really the scallop race!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u144	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u145	Let us recall the conditions under which we met last March to discuss the emergency bill to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, which created a state of health emergency. We had to build a legal framework to act quickly and effectively. Our action was contingent on the urgency of the situation. Nevertheless, we have not sacrificed to him the democratic debate, guaranteeing respect for the freedoms of our fellow citizens – you have reminded him, Minister. Here we are again, this time to get out of the emergency regime. The state of the health crisis is quite different: the latest figures published by Santé publique France and by the Directorate-General for Health reveal a decline in the virus in our territory. Other emergencies have already taken over from the crisis; The economic recovery of our country, the safeguarding of jobs and the overhaul of our health care system are all subjects that must now be taken care of. Today, therefore, we need a text that allows us to learn the lessons of this crisis, in terms of political and administrative management, as well as in terms of science; a text that accompanies the return to a normal life. In my view, this bill meets both of these requirements. The state of knowledge about the virus and the international situation – I am thinking in particular of what is happening in South America and China – prompts caution. No one can say that the crisis is behind us and that the spread of the virus will not resume. It is therefore absolutely necessary to maintain a framework for movement, gatherings on the public highway and for the reception of the public in establishments whose configuration does not allow the observance of the barrier gestures. I hear the concerns expressed about these restrictions, but I also hear scientists and caregivers who are extremely cautious. I remind those who have forgotten them of the thousands of deaths throughout the world, the bereaved families – for which I have a thought – and our fellow citizens who are still fighting and suffering from the consequences. We owe them responsibility and vigilance – which in no way prevents the search for balance and respect for the rights and freedoms of everyone. It is in this spirit that we have worked in committee with the rapporteur, so I welcome the work, to find a compromise on public gatherings. As we know, social tensions have not disappeared with confinement, on the contrary; Some have been exacerbated, and it is important to allow their expression in a secure health environment. It is also our responsibility to guarantee our citizens the opportunity to exercise the right to demonstrate; Since this text governs the transitional phase in which we find ourselves, it must create the conditions for these demonstrations to take place. With regard to the retention of data collected by the two information systems, we are well aware that it has raised many concerns. Here again, the rapporteur's work must be stressed, for having answered the legitimate questions. Troy Horse Point: only pseudonymized data intended for epidemiological surveillance and research can be retained. The objective is scientific and medical progress; It will not be otherwise, we commit ourselves to it. Issues relating to the collection and management of personal data are extremely sensitive. Indirectly, this health crisis forces us to ask ourselves about our digital practices for the future; Let us not create a habit of data collection and work towards greater transparency, otherwise we will only increase the citizens' mistrust of these processes. The future: this is what we need to work on now. This text contributes to this. It must be seen as a transition from the front to the post-crisis – this is the period in which we find ourselves; It has its demands which it would be imprudent to want to escape. Let us not disregard our responsibility, for we will put the future of our fellow citizens at risk. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, you will understand, is in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u146	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u147	We're coming out of a dramatic period. The French lived in anguish for months because of this unknown virus. The Government announces that, given the state of health, the state of emergency will not be extended beyond 10 July 2020. Of course, we are looking forward to it; But, in fact, when we look at the text in detail, we find that the Government is inventing a curious third way: there was the common law and the state of emergency, there is now a new derogation regime, called "transitional" – a transition that still lasts until October. Contrary to what he claims, the text is not intended to organize the end of the state of emergency; It is intended to extend the latter in another form. The law of 11 May 2020 extended the emergency regime until 10 July. Of course, it was necessary to plan for the future. However, it is noted that most of the exceptional provisions are extended until 30 October. As you have already understood in the words of my colleague Saulignac, the Socialist and related group is astonished at this somewhat oblique procedure, which in reality calls on the legislative power to continue delegating its basic powers to the executive power, so that it no longer exercises its role of protecting individual freedoms. Until 30 October, therefore, it is the Prime Minister who can regulate or prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles, regulate access to and conditions of use of means of transport, order the provisional closure and regulate the opening, including conditions of access and presence, of one or more categories of establishments receiving from the public: we see that fundamental freedoms are thus entrusted to the executive. On the other hand, the Law Commission rewritten the provisions that allowed the Prime Minister to limit or prohibit public gatherings, as well as meetings of any kind. It must be said that the Council of State has recently reaffirmed that freedom of expression, which has been restricted for health reasons, is a fundamental aspect of our democracy. The drafting of the Law Committee proposes an intermediate, compromise framework: spontaneous gatherings cannot be prohibited – which is difficult, however, since they are spontaneous... – but they will be subject to a framework of the number of participants and a regulation in order to ensure respect for the gestures of barriers; As for demonstrations on the public highway, they may be subject to an appropriate authorisation scheme. It is understood that there is a need to reduce the number of important events; However, it is problematic to see you confiscate a fundamental right by creating this transitional framework. Our fellow citizens, who have shown themselves to be extremely disciplined in accepting without rebuking an unprecedented deprivation of liberty, aspire to be free. But you ask them to wait a little longer. Another measure, contained in article 2, seems problematic to me: the Government may extend the retention period of certain medical data by decree. When we voted for permission to retain this data, you presented the measure as an exceptional measure and stated that its application would be brief. But, as usual, you want to use the decree to lengthen and expand tracing. Your reasons are probably legitimate. However, we do not enter without fear into a society where sensitive personal data will be stored longer and used more widely. We must provide our citizens with all the guarantees of data protection and medical secrecy. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Of course, we recognize that you have faced a serious and unprecedented crisis under difficult conditions. That is why, during this period, we have voted on a number of texts that you have presented. That will not be the case for this bill. The Socialist and Related Group wishes the full restoration of common law and respect for freedoms; That's why we won't be able to follow you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u148	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u149	I will not discuss crisis management, even if not everything has been perfect in this area, far from it. I am thinking of communicating the Government's advice to our fellow citizens – particularly with regard to the use of masks. But no one could anticipate the crisis and it was necessary to manage with the means of the edge. I only regret the lack of responsiveness to the warnings issued to the Government and the Government by the elected representatives, which reflected what was happening in the Territory. We have already pointed out the shortcomings of the administration and the regional health agencies, the RHAs. What an announcement effect that this title : bill organizing the exit from the state of emergency health! We can either maintain, or abrogate the state of emergency; But we cannot invent a third way, by means of a text which seems ephemeral, but clearly contains the possibility of making the provisional one last. If the Council of State had not intervened, you would even have codified this hybrid regime. We know, however, that a crisis regime cannot be dissociated from the crisis that caused it – unless we go towards sustainability. Desiring to maintain exorbitant measures of the common law until November, you choose to dispense with Parliament for a long period of time. Have we not repeated it enough? This is not an option that could be dispensed with, especially in times of crisis. You know better than anyone else, minister, since you sat on our benches. You cannot ask us to continually divest ourselves of our prerogatives. By Article 2, you wish to bring back to us a decision which we voted on here very shortly ago, after a long and complex debate. How could we be content to sit in a Parliament that would abandon its rights to the executive? Given the announcement by the President of the Republic to reassure us, we could have waited at least for the Government to reduce the violations of freedoms. That's not the case. The measures it proposes are part of the state of health emergency. Only requisition and quarantine are not included. They remain applicable, in accordance with the common rules of the Public Health Code. We are aware that the epidemic is not behind us. The gradual return to normal does not mean that any danger is ruled out. If the virus becomes virulent again, you could again count on Parliament to meet, support, help and debate the measures to be taken. But what does the text really mean? Not to appease the fear of a possible resurgence of the epidemic and, if necessary, to protect our fellow citizens, but to allow the Government, in such a context, to arrogate itself with powers that do not belong to it. Two of the four articles of the draft law, introduced in committee, relate to the overseas sector: they tend to adapt the emergency health system in New Caledonia and French Polynesia. However, Article 3 only partially responds to the requests of our colleagues in Caledonia, Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer, because, while it provides a necessary relaxation on the issue of quarantine, it does not solve the problem of the articulation of competences. Work with local authorities should have been done in advance. We have therefore tabled an amendment to rewrite the article in order to give them the power to make the necessary arrangements on such an important subject. With regard to New Caledonia and French Polynesia, we will have to continue the discussion in the Senate, but we are already counting on you to vote on our amendment. My colleague Pascal Brindeau said this in committee: if you do not make an effort, our ultramarine colleagues will abstain from the text. The majority of our group will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u150	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u151	First of all, I would like to pay a strong tribute to all the vital forces of our country, which have enabled us to go through the health crisis. I have a very special thought for our healthcare staff who showed their anger yesterday a few times in our Chamber, in order to obtain a very legitimate revalorisation of their status, as well as better working conditions. The bill raises real questions. I'll stop for a moment at an incoherence you didn't miss. This text was originally entitled "Proposal for a law organising the end of the state of health emergency"; It has been insidiously renamed during our committee work "out of the state of emergency", which leaves us with dreams. Indeed, we find that we are far from being offered a return to a system of common law. And we regret it. The end of the state of emergency is now desirable and corresponds to the country's health situation. It responds to the need for a rapid economic recovery. However, the text leaves at the disposal of the Prime Minister the possibility of taking emergency measures beyond the emergency period linked to the health crisis, i.e. for almost four months. It is imperative to consider this duration and the proportionality of the measures envisaged, in order not to endorse a disguised extension of the state of health emergency, which would not be justified. We have a particular concern about this: the fact that this text opens the door to progressive entry into the common law of liberticide measures, which has happened for other texts. We fear that another bill will emerge in October that will bring them into ordinary law. This is what happened with the provisions to combat terrorism... Our fear, therefore, is not without foundation. As my colleague Charles de Courson said in his speech against the StopCovid application, the Government is insidiously leading us to accept a "Faustian pact of selling us more health security against less freedoms". If it is certain that, in the long run, we will have less freedom, I am not sure that we will win safely. Dangerous to our freedoms, the bill is also useless. As the Scientific Council indicated in its opinion of 8 June, the epidemic is now under control. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group considers that the most appropriate regime to accompany the exit from the state of emergency is simply the common law. In its opinion of 9 June 2020, the Council of State states that "the provisions of the Public Health Code relating to the health threat provided for in articles L. 3131-1 et seq. could be activated. If these were insufficient, the Government would be able to declare a state of emergency". This institution has taken you back to the respect of other fundamental rights, such as freedom of worship and freedom to demonstrate. In order for everyone to understand what is being discussed, I would like to quote article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code: "In the event of a serious health threat requiring urgent action, particularly in the event of a threat of an epidemic, the Minister responsible for health may, by reasoned order, prescribe in the interest of public health any measure proportionate to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place in order to prevent and limit the consequences of possible threats to the health of the population. I emphasize: "any measure." In other words, the present law is sufficient. You almost said that yourself, minister, when we examined the bill to establish a state of health emergency in March. You said that in the event of a resurgence of the epidemic, it would be best to immediately reactivate the state of health emergency. That is to say, we have everything we need in our right. If you have the necessary legislation to deal with outbreaks of contamination or even a resumption of the pandemic, why propose unnecessary measures, even when the epidemic is under control? To give the French the impression that we're taking care of them? They're not fools. Excellent articles from the World or Mediapart deliver all the necessary information. Not long ago, you accused me of getting my information on Twitter. I'm sorry! I have other readings, which I think are very important to democracy. Because we feel it is unnecessary, and even a violation of freedoms, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u152	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u153	The Scientific Council recently considered that the improvement of the situation and the dynamics both hypothetical, localized and probably manageable of a resumption of the epidemic justified an exit from the state of health emergency. In this context, we should not even be meeting today. With the end of the state of emergency scheduled for 10 July, why vote for a new text if, as we have been told in recent days, the situation is under control? However, you have considered it necessary to allow for a transitional stage. Why? In the name of our health security? This masculine argument would make us hesitate the most reckless of us. Who here would risk seeing the epidemic go back to life, without having anticipated it, without having foreseen the relevant answers and adapted to an unusual situation? No one, of course. It is in response to this anguish of a new epidemic wave that the Government wishes to establish a transitional phase, or rather, should I say parole for our country as a whole. To this end, it provides for restrictions on the movement of persons and vehicles and access to means of transport, which could include the temporary closure of certain establishments to the public. Last but not least: this legislation provides for the regulation of public gatherings, as well as meetings of all kinds, which will be subject to authorisation until 30 October. In short, to speak clearly, it is a matter of establishing a new state of emergency that does not say its name. It would have been hoped, however, that after asking the French for immense sacrifices, with their procession of economic but also social and educational consequences for our children, the Government would not choose the same weapons. The emergency measures have saved lives, but will leave many of them on the edge of the road. Of course, I am talking about bankrupt companies, workers, artisans, liberal professionals, who will lose their jobs, if not already. I am, of course, talking about the immense fragility of our country, which is under the weight of an ever-increasing bureaucracy and centralism, notwithstanding the incantations of the President of the Republic on the essential role of local elected officials, and other mayor-prefect couples. How can we not be offended that at a time of crucial, vital choices that involve several generations, the Government finds nothing more urgent than to schedule for the next few days the discussion of a bill aimed at enabling women's couples and single women to resort to medically assisted procreation – LDCs – thus deliberately depriving a child of his father? How can we not be shocked? Indeed, our fellow citizens are, since, according to one of the latest polls conducted by the FIFG, seven out of ten French citizens are opposed to this measure. How can we not notice that this discussion falls to the fore for you, since in the midst of a state of health emergency, demonstrations are obviously still prohibited? Similarly, at a time when our country is breaking up, it is communitating, at a time when our police are being criticized, assaulted, abandoned, we read articles in the press about the 100 proposals of the majority for the two years they have left. Thus, you propose to create an independent police investigation and inspection service – the IGPN, the General Inspectorate of the National Police, will appreciate it; encourage the increase of contacts between schools and businesses – to this degree of generality, one thinks dream; or to create training on "gender stereotypes" – an absolute emergency, you will admit, at a time when the French public deficit amounts to 11.4% of GDP, and the debt is estimated at 115 % of GDP. What a shame! The suit is definitely too big for you. The economy is asphyxiated, under artificial respirator, kept alive by unprecedented debt, and your priority is not to attack the real; It's ideology. I warn you: on Sunday evening, Emmanuel Macron invoked "the energy of the coming day"; But by showing you so disconnected from the reality that the French live, by means of contempt, and simply because of your indecency, this energy that has just come risks being very destructive – for France. All you have to do is look at the news and realize it. I will therefore vote against this text, which only testifies to your dual language, to this "at the same time" which has become your trademark, and which is definitely not up to the standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u154	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u155	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u156	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u157	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u158	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u159	My speech will be brief, but I hope it will be heard. I stressed just now the importance of guaranteeing our citizens the opportunity to exercise their right to demonstrate in a secure health environment. This commitment must not, however, make us forget that, for the past two and a half years, other actors have suffered the overflows of the numerous events: traders and artisans. Beyond economic aid, which must enable them to bounce back after the damage of the health crisis, we must protect them from temporary cessations of activity in the event of demonstrations. We should therefore consider very practical measures, such as the diversification of the paths of demonstrations, especially in metropolitan areas, to protect them from deterioration. This work will obviously have to be carried out with the trade union organisations. It is not acceptable that traders, after two difficult years, still have to suffer such inconveniences. Action is in everyone's interest, because without it, their establishments risk permanent closure, ultimately increasing unemployment. However, it is a blind spot of current law, to which I believe it is urgent to pay attention, with the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which seem receptive, those of the Ministry of the Interior, and, on the ground, the prefectures. Although this matter is outside the scope of this bill, I would like to take this opportunity to question you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u160	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u161	Article 1e r does not appear appropriate to the members of the Freedom and Territory Group, either on the substance or on the form, as Mr Paul Molac has indicated. We have therefore tabled an amendment to abolish it, as well as amendments to restrict its scope, by replacing the ban on the movement of persons and vehicles and the temporary closure of establishments receiving the public with simple traffic regulations and opening hours. Why add these provisions, while the current legislative framework is adapted to the current situation, that of an epidemic under control, according to the Scientific Council? The current law would no less be adapted to a possible resurgence of the epidemic – which we obviously do not want – since the provisions of the Public Health Code on health threats could be applied. While there is, of course, still a need to remain vigilant with regard to the virus, there is no need to add any new provisions. I also call on you to maintain the meaning of the measure. Necessity and proportionality: these are the key words that should guide the examination of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u162	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u163	Article 1 poses many difficulties for members of the Republican Group. We were obviously responsible by voting in March in favour of the law establishing a state of health emergency – some referred just now to this impressive, emotional session for all of us. We also voted in favour of the law of 11 May 2020 extending the state of emergency and supplementing its provisions, because we once again felt responsible that there was no reason not to accompany the Government in dealing with an unprecedented crisis. Today, however, the context has changed. Of course, the health crisis persists, families are bereaved, the number of people in resuscitation – even in decline – remains too high and homes are reported here and there in France but also in China and elsewhere. Yet we are no longer in the situation of maximum crisis that required a state of emergency; So we must put an end to it – we agree. But you offer us a true false exit, a trompe l'oeil exit. On 10 July, the state of emergency would be lifted, but completely exorbitant provisions of the ordinary law would be maintained; They would no longer be able to assemble – freedom of association would be restricted – or to demonstrate – or under very restrictive conditions – or to circulate – the freedom to come and go would be violated. This is not the normal state of a democratic state. Other possibilities exist: colleagues have referred to the Public Health Code, and positive law contains other provisions allowing prefects and other bodies to intervene. It is for all these reasons that we will not be able to agree on this Article 1 which we consider very liberbid and inconvenient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u164	I have before me nine identical amendments to delete Article 10, 11, 25, 31, 36, 39, 46, 61 and 75. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u165	This law organizes less the end of the state of emergency than it confers on the Government all the prerogatives to prolong an exceptional situation. After several months of paralysis, you intend to foresee once again the blockade of the country, in addition to the constraints and restrictions of fundamental freedoms that such an extension would create. You are again taking the risk of severely undermining France's economic balance. The situation of a catastrophic recession in which the country will be plunged cannot be further accelerated. Such a prospect, which is also deliberate, risks endangering thousands of French homes. Under the guise of beginning the end of the state of emergency, this text only encourages the extension of the state of emergency. My amendment is aimed at denouncing this hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u166	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u167	As I said in the general discussion, the device that you are proposing to us is neither more nor less than a state of emergency which does not bear its name but which has all its characteristics and which has all its effects. To leave so much power to the Government in the name of the health emergency is completely contrary to the spirit of the rule of law. This project puts in brackets too many fundamental freedoms – freedom of assembly, freedom of association, freedom of movement, which are at the heart of the country's civic life in a very different context. In reality, this law provides for a state of health emergency disguised as a violation of freedoms and all the more surprising since the head of State himself, in his Sunday evening televised intervention, praised the return to normal. I am very comfortable denouncing this text because, like many of us, I voted in favour of the establishment of a state of health emergency in March and its extension. Since then, the situation has changed dramatically and the bill does not take this change into account. Common law is enough. If the epidemic were to resume, which I do not, of course, wish, Parliament and the Government would have all the means to take urgent decisions. Once again, this text is of no interest, and it violates freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u168	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u169	As of next week, all Members will be able to be present again in open session. However, we are being asked to disregard the prerogatives of Parliament by entrusting the Government with exceptional powers which, in reality, do not belong to it. You wish to put an end to the state of emergency but to retain all the powers that it gave you! The first of the reasons why we must oppose this text is because we are parliamentarians: these are prerogatives that belong to Members. We were elected by our fellow citizens to carry their word. We need to come together to discuss substantive provisions, not to give the Government a blank meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u170	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u171	In introducing this bill, you remind me of those people who walk around the street with an umbrella while it is no longer raining, but who justify this umbrella that remains above their heads on the grounds that there are still a few clouds. In fact, you have the umbrella in your hands and you can open it at any time if it ever rains again. Without paying too much caution, you want the French to say something that you absolutely want to be reassuring: you have to be vigilant, you have to do everything, you have to be responsible... Everyone here agrees with the validity of these formulas but you translate them into measures that are unrelated to these words – and even meaningless. You often invoke your responsibility. The only responsibility is to get out of the state of emergency – or to assume that we don't get out of it completely, but then say it! Let us know why you feel it is important to maintain certain provisions of the state of emergency which, from our point of view, are no longer justified. The health code is rather well linked: it allows the umbrella to be opened very quickly and efficiently. And you don't explain to us what the flaws of common law are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u172	Mr Ludovic Pajot's amendment No 36 is being defended. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u173	This bill provides for a state of emergency that does not say his name. The aim of the deletion amendment is to prevent us from entering the grey zone where you want to lead us. You established a state of health emergency on 23 March; it was extended on 11 May for a period of two months. At the time, we had already made many criticisms: no social measures are foreseen as the economic crisis is in full swing and nearly 500,000 jobs were abolished in the first quarter. Unable to plan deconfinity, the Government organizes the containment of freedoms. He decided not to officially extend the state of health emergency beyond 10 July, but this bill must allow the Prime Minister, out of a state of health emergency, to restrict freedoms until 30 October. What is the point of creating this new regime when the common law, in this case Article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health, already provides the Minister of Health with very broad powers in exceptional circumstances? Again, you create a grey zone between the state of emergency and the common law. Why create this in-between if not to restrict the movement of people and prevent rallies? By this Article 1e r is extended out of state of emergency only the measures of restriction of freedoms. It's a clever way to give each other the opportunity to ban demonstrations, including demonstrations against police violence and those of caregivers, which feed some grievances against you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u174	Didn't they happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u175	On the other hand, all measures that may be useful to deal with the economic and social crisis – requisitions, price frameworks and so on – are not retained. Basically, through this bill, you confirm the return to abnormality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u176	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u177	The state of health emergency is a completely exorbitant system of ordinary law. We agreed that this particular legal and democratic state was not intended to continue. After many discussions, we agreed on a date: July 10. The group The Republicans, which embodies an opposition always concerned with the collective interest and the powers of control of Parliament, preferred a monthly appointment – on 24 June, then on 24 July and so on. It was the exit from the state of emergency on 10 July that was decided; either, but don't let him go out the door to get out the window! But that's a bit of what you're proposing – a break-in entry, which is more, because the means employed are problematic. It is not just a question of restricting certain minor activities of daily life, but, excuse me, of fundamental rights: freedom to come and go, freedom of association, freedom to manifest; It would be possible for you to reinstate confinement under certain conditions. Caregivers want to be heard; Other demonstrations are planned which, even if I disapprove of them, seem to me legitimate from the point of view of freedom of expression in a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u178	We had this debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u179	We will start a debate on bioethics in July – when it was not expected by that date; This forcing could trigger a will to protest which, as in October, seems to me to be quite legitimate. Similarly, the September re-entry may well be a little complicated or even hot; It should not only be under false pretexts – for it may well be the case, even if I do not want to investigate any trial of intent – and with some flexibility people are prevented from demonstrating. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we propose the pure and simple deletion of the article: it will avoid many legal and democratic difficulties!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u180	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u181	The purpose of this amendment is to remove Article 1 stipulating that the Government should replace the Parliament to regulate the movement of persons, the closure of establishments receiving from the public and the assembly of persons on public roads. We do not dispute the fact, minister, that it may still be necessary to take health measures at a given time. Besides, some of them are going to go on. On the other hand, we question the legitimacy that the Government would have to act without going to Parliament. In the event of a return to the epidemic, the common law is sufficient to take the necessary measures, as has already been said. If it proved insufficient, we would not accept the Government's sole decision on fundamental and constitutional freedoms; That would be very serious. Admittedly, containment measures have already been lifted – still happy! On the other hand, it is not acceptable for us to hand the keys to fundamental freedoms into the hands of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u183	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u184	This bill aims at two fundamental freedoms: freedom of assembly – and therefore of demonstration – and freedom of movement. They have been difficult to obtain over the course of history; they are essential. However, the Government has already limited the right to demonstrate by imposing prior authorization, or rather the possibility of an administrative ban on demonstrations. In this case, you go even further, and I wonder. I know the French: do you really believe that the day when they really want to demonstrate, it will be enough to prevent them from doing so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u185	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u186	The latest demonstrations have shown that no: those against racism have been held, those of nurses too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u187	It's almost an incentive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u189	In other words, you propose a measure that will not be implemented and that will aggravate the discredit of public power, since you will give the impression of making decisions without being able to fully implement them. Believe me, you'll be caught in this game!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u191	Let me make a slightly long answer so that we can go faster then, even if I will naturally go back to the details if necessary. Many of us here have been involved in the consideration of the bill establishing a state of health emergency and the bill by which it was extended. During the 16 weeks of containment and subsequent gradual definization, many of our decisions were informed by the advice of the Scientific Council. Before we begin the debate on Article 1, it seems to me important to look at the opinion which the Scientific Council issued on 8 June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u192	This opinion establishes that "the epidemic is controlled with a virus that continues to circulate"; He says very clearly that we are no longer in a state of health catastrophe. It is for this reason that we are about to leave the state of emergency: it will end on 11 July, as stated at the beginning of Article 1, and with it the possibility of a strict reconfinition. However, the Scientific Council states that "this situation does not preclude a resumption of the epidemic". Of the four scenarios it envisages, even the most favourable ones require the continuation of collective measures, such as the wearing of the mask in public transport. In the event of outbreaks of contamination or even resurgence of the epidemic, the need to restrict traffic or close certain places is also mentioned. The Scientific Council has also alerted us about the summer period that is opening: it must be the subject of a special vigilance, since the holidays will lead to an increase in the movements of the French. Not all island, coastal or mountain departments are equipped with care facilities adapted to the number of persons then staying in those territories. Finally, he made the following observation, which we must bear in mind: in the event of a localised resurgence of the epidemic, the reaction time of the authorities will be decisive in controlling it. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, under these conditions, a dry exit from the state of emergency is simply impossible. Would the common law make it possible to take the measures recommended by the Scientific Council? I will repeat what I have already answered to this question in the Law Committee; I hope I'm more convincing this afternoon. Article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code mentions a simple decree of the Minister responsible for health and is therefore limited to the strictly health aspect of managing such a crisis. In other words, none of the animal health measures I have just mentioned could be taken on the basis of this article, which the Council of State believes would "not give the measures envisaged by the Government a sufficiently solid legal basis in the context of an exit from crisis". That is why we are examining this transitional arrangement today. I would like to say to our colleagues who have spoken on this point that this scheme is not an exception, that it is not without guarantees, that it will not be permanent. Article 1 contains guarantees; Some of them were already included in the text proposed by the Government, but we have completed them in committee. Thus, we limited it to 30 October instead of 10 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u193	Ten days more or less...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u194	It will not be codified, and therefore will not be permanent; the measures taken can only be taken for the sole purpose of combating covid-19, and their control will be ensured by the judge for interim measures. The right to demonstrate will be guaranteed. The Scientific Council will continue to make public opinions on the state of the situation and the appropriateness of the measures. Finally, Parliament, informed without delay of the measures taken and which may require any other useful information, will exercise its full control. Let us guard against the outside, and let us take this text for what it is. On July 10, the state of emergency will end. We would all like to be able to return to life before the covid -19, but that will not be the case: the health situation does not allow it. We're in an in-between. The activity is gradually resuming; Everyone can see that the Government, the President of the Republic, probably also all the deputies present here, want this resumption to be as broad and as rapid as possible, but that it nevertheless requires certain measures to ensure that the situation does not become critical again. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u196	In mid-February, when the first outbreak of French contamination had just been identified with Contamines-Montjoie, we tested all patients and all contact cases, hospitalized five people, closed schools, isolated part of the commune. I was not yet a minister; But if I had then come before Parliament to submit to you the provisions that we are proposing to adopt today, I can imagine the debates that we would have had, quite legitimately. "How? For five patients in Haute-Savoie, none of whom died, the Government is asking us to take urgent measures to protect the population? That's disproportionate! It's too much! Come back to us in a month, if the situation gets worse. I'm sure I would have heard that. The big difference with mid-February is that, throughout the national territory, we are no longer detecting 5 patients in a commune. Yesterday, our hospitals admitted 143 people because of the severity of the covid -19 disease, 14 new patients in resuscitation, in a serious condition. From a health point of view, this difference is striking. Both situations are not comparable. I do not dispute, I repeat, the legitimacy of this debate. But we are organizing the exit from the state of health emergency: we are losing the possibility of confining the population, of restricting individual and collective freedoms, as we had to do urgently in March; We are putting an end to the provisions that violate the freedom to undertake. I believe that this text is not only more than measured, but also adapted to the situation. We must remain constantly in a state of vigilance and attention, as we have done since the beginning. I hear the critics; I do not want to enter into polemics about crisis management: this is not of interest to me and is not the subject of the debate. However, in response to the somewhat excessive remarks made earlier by Mr Schellenberger,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u197	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u198	[[Smile]] Oh, never!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u199	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... I cannot help but point out that if two thirds of humanity have been subjected to total confinement, it may not be just because France lacked masks and tests. I let everyone regain the sense of measure and moderation. Mr Schellenberger, I prefer to remember what you wrote on March 6, ten days before confinement: "Never in our history have we been better prepared to fight a pandemic."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u200	It was probably a homonym!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u201	Mr Saulignac, I would be too happy that there are only a few clouds left in the sky, and that the umbrella only protects us from the last late drops; But I cannot tell you what will happen to the health situation in a month's time. We are making every effort to ensure that it is as stable and controlled as possible. But in August, when you take a well-deserved holiday, away from Parliament, I do not know whether the virus will also be on holiday. Consider that, since Parliament does not sit, we will dispense with it, would it be very respectful of national representation? Article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code allows me to take a number of measures; How would it be more democratic, more transparent to the French population? In what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u203	Everyone has to be responsible, as I know you all do, even if we have disagreements. If you adopt these deletion amendments, at the minute the state of emergency comes to an end, that is to say on the 11th of July that you yourself have determined, the wearing of the mask will cease to be compulsory on public transport, discotheques will be allowed to reopen, 1500 or 2000 people will be able to lightly dance there, enjoy the summer found, cough on it, possibly contaminate themselves. This is what happened in other countries, some of which, Mr. Schellenberger, had never lacked tests or masks; They had to re-establish their population in a hurry to remedy situations they had not anticipated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You have the opportunity to help us anticipate, to give us your confidence so that we can anticipate day-to-day, with measure, in the coming weeks. Thus, France will not have the same situation as a number of countries that you are willing to cite as an example, week after week, and which are now forced to apply much stricter measures than those contained in this bill. [[Same movements]] I will conclude on a lighter note, with a quote that I like: "We do more to disarm those we fear than to compel those we love. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u204	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u205	The minister spoke very fairly; I won't add much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u206	He thanks you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u207	I think you agree, Mr. Saulignac. You talked about an umbrella, an umbrella that we'd keep open under a clear sky.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u208	Belt, straps and umbrella!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u209	I leave you with responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u210	I'll take them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u211	You're ardéchois, I'm Breton. After a storm, I prefer to have my wax at hand; We're never safe from a shower under a trailing sky. Indeed, this text is an umbrella: we will keep it under our arms, ready to be deployed in case of new risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u212	No, you keep it open!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u213	Moreover, there is a paradox in your argument. You ask us how much we need this bill when the legislation in the Public Health Code would allow us to take all the necessary action. I'm having a hard time understanding...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u214	We often have trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u215	...that you accuse us of waiting for public freedoms, collective freedoms, by these same measures. So the common law would allow the minister, by a simple order, to take measures that violate freedoms? Here we have a debate, an explanation, substantiated arguments, scientific; There is an imperative: let us be careful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u216	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u217	Scientists have a good back. We heard the rapporteur get bogged down in laborious explanations and try to hide behind the experts' advice to explain how much this bill was supposed to protect us. Let's go back to common law. Many of us have indicated to you that section L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, and an Order in Council of Ministers, may be sufficient to take the necessary action. Parliamentarians are not the only ones who consider this bill to be a legal UFO. Many lawyers, teachers in public law, the trade union of lawyers in France share this view.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u218	Are they scientists?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u219	Moreover, no later than yesterday, health professionals were able to march through the Council of State, which lifted the ban on their demonstrations, reminding you that the right to demonstrate was one of the fundamental freedoms. I have no doubt that the Council of State will once again remind you of the reason if, unfortunately, this bill is passed, because it represents a clear setback for public freedoms. The question of compliance with health rules is only a decoy. You're talking about umbrellas, covered time, but you don't hesitate to make our children walk in line leu leu in schools. If the Conseil d'État had not allowed me to go to this health professional event, I would have been very well able to go to the Puy du Fou amusement park and cough on all visitors. Your health arguments, without any consistency, do not hold and your legal arguments lack seriousness. We will vote against this article, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u220	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u221	Mr Schellenberger took up the language elements that his party is developing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u222	Part of his party.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u223	We would have decided to confine the population because we had no masks or tests! The will to systematically criticize the Government is such that there is no longer any limit to overtness, ignorance, indecency or even ridicule. Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u224	Do you want a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u225	As you know, Mr Schellenberger, the vast majority of countries affected by the epidemic have taken containment measures. The minister reminded you of that. Those who did not do so have a higher mortality rate than ours, even though their country has been poorly affected by the virus. For example, Sweden has 10 per cent more deaths than France, while it has been less affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u226	What about Austria? What about Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u227	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you also know that masks are made in China. Which country has taken the strictest containment measures? China. Your arguments don't make any sense, as you can see. A virus, should we call it back? strike randomly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u228	You should have gone to the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u229	It arrived in the densest region of Europe, the Paris region, five times denser than Berlin and four times as dense as London. It has spread following very special events, which do not have their equivalent abroad: the famous Mulhouse rally, the election campaign one month before March 15th and the agricultural fair. Don't tell me anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u230	To reinvent oneself, you must first be lucid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u231	What does it have to do with the farm show?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u232	[[Some applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So far, vigilance and attention, prudence and caution have enabled the Government to achieve a successful deconfination. We must maintain the same state of mind to get out of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u233	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u234	On 6 March, the Prefect of the Haut-Rhin alone, sometimes after difficult discussions with the ministries concerned, decided on the first measures to restrict freedom: the ban on rallies of more than fifty people, the ban on rallies or sporting events, the ban on visits to EHPADs and the closure of about 100 schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u235	I signed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u236	On 6 March, we were far from the promulgation of the state of emergency on 23 March. And that March, Mr.Minister, we trusted the Prefect of the High Rhin, the Government. But that is true, Minister, you have only been a minister for three weeks and you have just succeeded a minister who, although she had been informed of the global health situation by the end of 2019, had to fly to the aid of a poorly engaged Parisian electoral campaign. [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That 6th of March, we trusted you, but we didn't know yet that you had squandered the strategic stock. We did not know yet that you had not used the previous months, during which you were aware of the global health situation, to prepare for the arrival of this crisis in France. This 6th of March, we were naive to trust you, minister. We called the people to calm, in the Upper Rhine, inviting them to trust you. We were wrong and it is because we no longer trust you that we oppose the adoption of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u237	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u238	The general economy of Article 1 is problematic: its first five paragraphs provide for the Prime Minister to regulate, or even prohibit, the movement of persons and vehicles, access to means of transport and access to establishments open to the public. We are, once again, in the in-between, the famous "at the same time". Indeed, the health crisis is behind us, under control, and there is no longer any reason to maintain the state of health emergency. Either we are in the midst of a health crisis and there is no reason not to restrict French freedom. In any event, custodial measures cannot be allowed on assumptions, even though there is a second epidemic wave. They must be taken when strictly necessary, in accordance with a particular context, with concrete data, and, of course, under the control of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u240	I have already explained how the contrasting situation in which we find ourselves requires nuanced measures. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u241	I have before me three amendments, Nos 66, 70 and 47, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 66 and 70 are identical. Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u242	This bill does not provide for the end of the state of emergency on 10 July 2020; it shall extend this state of emergency until 10 November 2020. While it may seem necessary to provide for measures to accompany the exit from the state of emergency on 10 July 2020, these measures must be monitored by Parliament. This bill violates fundamental freedoms and creates legal uncertainty; This new status, in many respects, has less guarantees than the state of emergency as provided for in the Public Health Code. The four months of confinement we have experienced were necessary, but during those four months Parliament did not function properly. In many other countries of the world, remote voting has been organised. We have not done so, unlike the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for example. For four months we lived with a semblance of Parliament where the amendments were defended by colleagues who did not believe in them, where voting by public vote was impossible. I want to defend our role before you today. This hybrid regime, between a codified state of emergency and common law, is dangerous. It should therefore be limited in time. You call for caution, but I would ask you to adopt this amendment, which is intended to replace the date of 30 September 2020 with the date of 30 October 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u243	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u244	We are discussing the duration of the transitional state: initially by four months, its deadline has been reduced by the adoption of an amendment in committee to 30 October. I have heard a lot of comments in this regard, in particular to invoke the impossibility of bringing Parliament together during the parliamentary holidays. However, it is likely that the holidays will end on 31 August, and that Parliament will be convened in special session in September, as usual, before starting the ordinary session on 1 October. Why, in these circumstances, should the date of October 30 be retained? This amendment, which is very generous, tends to replace this deadline with that of 30 September, which corresponds to the beginning of the ordinary session. It would only be mine, I would have offered on August 31st.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u245	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u246	Before I introduce this amendment, I would like to recall the context in which my colleague Raphaël Schellenberger was pointed out for speaking reassuringly on 6 March. The next day, on 7 March, the President of the Republic and Brigitte Macron went to the theatre and walked around. I could sing Joe Dassin to you, but the subject is too serious to walk around like this in Paris, with your hands in your pockets. The President of the Republic therefore invited us not to lose our common sense and to continue to live, to leave. Of course, you can mock my colleague, but in this case, don't spare the President of the Republic who, the next day, said the same thing. I invite you to show moderation so that we don't end up sending us some bird names to our face, which would have been wrong. However, if the first of the French, together with his wife, again appeals to our common sense and asks us to go to the theatre, we may be able to ask ourselves questions. I now come to the amendment. The initial duration was far too long since it lasted for four months, until November 10. We propose, with this withdrawal amendment, that a date coincide, not with the arrival of a renewed Parliament, since only part of the Senate will have been newly elected, but the beginning of a new ordinary session, which already leaves a lot of time. We admit that September can be difficult to manage, even if Parliament can meet at any place and at any time. To paraphrase the oath of the palm game, let us say that we can gather wherever circumstances require. Let's not exaggerate this whistle output. The date of the beginning of the regular session seems to me to be the least appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u248	We debated this issue in committee and eventually adopted an amendment by Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, thus reducing the date from 10 November to 30 October. I would like us to stay there because we have adopted this amendment to respond to the need to limit the duration of this transitional state while taking into account the constraints of September, whether it is the Senate elections, the installation of the partly renewed Senate, the parliamentary shuttle, or a possible referral to the Constitutional Council. I would therefore be against any proposal to move the date forward because it would not be realistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u249	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u250	I understand the rapporteur's arguments, but it is not because we have had this debate in committee that it is finally decided. This is where we exercise our power of control. You claim that you have to take the time to get out of the state of emergency correctly, but this period of exit ends up longer than the state of emergency itself! It is all the more surprising that you want to give the Government, during this period, the same powers to restrict freedoms as during the state of health emergency. On the contrary, we consider that the period of departure from the state of health emergency cannot be longer than the state of health emergency itself. The date of 1 October, which corresponds to the beginning of the regular session, would therefore be sufficient. Moreover, we have given the Government, by passing the emergency law to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, all weapons to deal with a dramatic resurgence of the epidemic, and these legal tools are valid until 23 March 2021. There is therefore no reason to grant the Government, until 30 October, for a longer period than the state of emergency itself, exorbitant powers under ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u251	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 21 and 79. I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u252	Minister, a consensus emerged during the crisis on the measures to be taken in the context of the state of health emergency, but it will have to end at some point. You must trust the French and their sense of responsibility. You prefer the extension of the state of emergency to a possible return to the National Assembly if the need arises, with the following argument: if five cases come to a particular place tomorrow, we will not, however, ask Parliament to adopt new measures. But what will you do in December or January if, unfortunately, five cases occur? You're not going to make the French live forever under the state of emergency. The permanent state of emergency – it will have lasted eight months at the end of the extension that you are asking us to vote – will eventually pose a constitutional problem. The state will have to stop wanting to settle everything in the lives of the French, even though it is completely incapable of doing so. I am thinking here of the incoherence of forcing the French to wear a mask in public transport while justifying the continued closure of the theatres by the fact that people cannot sit side by side, even masked. All of this is of absolute inconsistency, as you know very well; But the state cannot help trying to regulate everything – when it is unable to do so. The question of the confidence that the State must give to our compatriots must, in the long run, be asked. The sooner we reach a system based on trust, the better it will be for public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u253	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u254	It is intended to delete paragraph 2, which allows "to regulate or prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles and to regulate access to and conditions of use of means of transport". The bill sets the date of exit from the state of emergency on 10 July. From the moment when barrier actions, including the wearing of the mask, are well respected by users, it is necessary to respect article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which enshrines the freedom of movement and the right of every individual to move freely in a country. The total resumption of economic activity now takes precedence over the management of the health crisis, the scale of which has been reduced thanks to the barrier gestures and masks accessible to everyone. Companies implement very expensive health recommendations and the state has made a huge commitment to support them. Everyone's work must therefore resume and, with him, freedom of movement. France is in the most serious economic situation; The increase in unemployment will put many of our fellow citizens in difficulty. They must once again have access to public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u256	Unfavorable opinion. The paragraph you are proposing to delete concerns traffic regulations. Specifically, it aims to enable, for example, the regulation of the activity of cruise ships in the summer period, or the limitation of traffic to fragile departments to the limited capacity of care. Since the transitional period provided for in the bill ends on October 30, it would also allow for the wearing of the mask for public transit access, which we are currently measuring the need for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u258	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u259	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u260	We are approaching a stage in the debate during which an argument may have to be repeated frequently. The two amendments consider that the measures we are about to adopt will necessarily be applied everywhere, all the time, to the maximum degree. However, I recall that the end of paragraph 1 of the article reads as follows: "The Prime Minister may, by order made on the report of the Minister responsible for health, solely for the purpose of guaranteeing public health...". This means that action will be limited in time and space, including transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u261	It'll be permanent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u262	If ever, in a municipality, five people form a mini-cluster at a given date, then yes, we must be able to limit the movement there without having to call Parliament. [[Mr. Jean Terlier applauds]] Let me tell my own story: I fell ill on March 7; On the 16th, the Government began to assess the appropriateness of an emergency mechanism; the law dates from 23 March. Even as soon as possible, in a moment of absolute consensus, we took six days. Rather than shouting at the plot, let us give the Government the flexibility it needs to respond in a timely and timely manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u263	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u264	Even in a moment of absolute consensus, we took six days to legislate on measures that were already in place. It's also a reality. The problem with the Government's attitude during this post-crisis period is that it adopts an attitude of permanent prescription, never of confidence or dialogue. Regulatory measures concerning access to transport, in particular, could be established in a responsible dialogue with operating companies, which are often public companies, largely owned by the State. Nothing would prevent SNCF from imposing the wearing of the mask in its own regulations. Why give such broad prerogatives to the Government, when decisions could be taken in the context of a good relationship, a relationship of responsibility? Our conviction is not that nothing needs to be done, but that, in order to succeed, for habits to settle in time – because the crisis has also taught us that the epidemic risk must be appropriated – everyone must take responsibility. For that, we need the Government to stop infantilizing ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u265	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 32, 48, 65 and 71. I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u266	With Article 1, you want to be able to "prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles". Suspend the freedom of movement, it's not neutral! This would require a state of health emergency; However, it is due to end on 10 July. This provision clearly shows that the bill remains in an in-between: you claim to leave the state of health emergency but, in fact, you maintain the possibility of a very strong ban, which should only be allowed in the context of the state of health emergency. Therefore, the amendment proposes to remove the ban and to stick to a more proportionate regulation of the movement of persons and vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u267	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u268	The state of health emergency is a state of emergency in which whole sections of positive law are mistreated and fundamental rights are not respected, because necessity is lawful, given compelling reasons. I think we all agree on that. But from the moment when the strongest of the crisis is behind us, and even if the Government is right to consider certain measures – it would be inconsistent not to think about them – it cannot act as if the state of health emergency was being removed while taking measures that made the situation more difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u269	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u270	However, this is the case in Article 1. Article 1, which is currently in force during the state of health emergency, provides that there may be regulation or prohibition. But he, at least, specifies the need for a time frame. In the text we are considering, this is no longer the case. In other words, the exception is added to the exception. We have tabled this withdrawal amendment because we believe that it is forbidden to ban.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u271	It'll talk to the old socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u272	It will remind some good slogans, even if I don't know if there is sand under the cobblestones... We believe that regulating traffic will suffice, and that the common law currently allows for the regulation of most situations. The Government disagrees with this approach, but some of the most prominent lawyers support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u274	Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u275	Prohibiting, tracing, controlling, punishing: all these prohibitions eventually scare me. We finally find that the StopCovid application is a fiasco,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u276	An announced fiasco!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u277	...that it does not work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u278	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u279	... because too much data is stored. Some in my constituency even told me: I uninstalled StopCovid because she was emptying my phone, I had to recharge it ten times a day. Freedom of movement is a fundamental human right enshrined in article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The amendment proposes to remove the possibility for the Prime Minister to take by decree measures to prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles. Regulating is enough, and it is clear that prohibiting demonstrations or traffic is not working.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u280	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u281	It is identical to the previous ones. Everything has been said, or almost: the law is disproportionate to the benefits it could bring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u282	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u283	I have already replied in part on the subject earlier, but I would like to reassure you, Madame de Courson: the traffic ban referred to in paragraph 2 could in no way lead to a strict reconfinition. It is important to make this clear. As my colleague Guillaume Vuilletet pointed out, these are general measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u284	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u285	...by means of which the Prime Minister or a representative of the State may, on a point-by-point basis, be targeted, localised, almost surgical, prohibit movement, for example, within the perimeter of a commune. That's what this is about. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u286	That doesn't reassure us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u288	It is difficult to adjust to the comma when dealing with restrictions on freedoms or even prohibitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u289	It's hard... it's all up to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u290	It's difficult because we have to find the right balance. Such issues go beyond the usual divides between groups. I will take an example of the difficulty of this adjustment, Mr Gosselin: on 7 May last – not so long ago – you and Mr Di Filippo had co-signed several amendments, to which I gave an unfavorable opinion, and which strangely echo the amendment advocated by Mr Schellenberger. They were meant to make it mandatory to wear the mask in public space...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u291	It's hard work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u292	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant sesclaffe]] ... for a period of up to one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u293	This has nothing to do with it! We can move around with a mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u294	[[Smile]] Back then, I told you, it's too much, and it's too long. Yet, two minutes ago, another amendment was intended to remove the possibility of imposing the wearing of the mask for four months on public transport. When we're not sure, Mr. Gosselin, we're going to go back to common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u295	But yes, a little common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u296	If you adopt this amendment – which may be legitimate, which may be the subject of debate – which removes the possibility for the Prime Minister to prohibit access to means of transport, this means that, in practice, from the end of the state of emergency on 11 July, mega-ferries will no longer be allowed to land thousands of passengers on vacation in ultramarine territories, over which viral pressure can quickly cost very much in human lives. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] One of the first measures of prohibition that we have taken concerned these cruise ships. We did it very early, and you may remember that this caused tensions with some cruise ships that could not enter the ports in Marseille and the West Indies. We decided this ban from the Japanese experience, because it was by a cruise ship that the epidemic arrived in Japan. I prefer the Prime Minister to retain, for a few weeks or a few months – up to four months, not a year – the possibility of unconditionally prohibiting access to cruise ships, rather than being disarmed and destitute – unless I make an order, which would be possible, but no more respectful of Parliament's rights. The same applies to planes. We are very attentive to the situation in some territories, because, at a time when we are talking about the tail of the epidemic, the virus is continuing its devastating work there, as it was able to do in France a few weeks ago. Would you like to deprive us of the possibility of prohibiting people from these countries from coming to France by air? In the end, no, you don't want to. Opinion against these amendments because their consequences would be serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u297	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u298	Mr Minister, you recalled that in February, the first epidemic outbreak could be treated in Haute-Savoie, without having to complain of death, which is happy. And you wondered what you would have heard if you had then proposed the provisions that we are discussing. In mid-June, we are still in a state of health emergency. As I have already pointed out, thirty-four patients have been identified in three communes on the left bank of the metropolis of Rouen, which has 500,000 inhabitants. And you have reported it yourself, other epidemic outbreaks are occurring throughout the national territory. Unfortunately, neither local elected officials nor Members of Parliament are transparently informed of the arrangements – generally, without, of course, entering into medical secrecy – made to accurately detect and monitor the resurgence of these epidemic outbreaks. What are the provisions you are planning to use in the case of this active, industrious metropolis of 500,000 inhabitants? I ask you to answer on this point, which seems to me at the heart of the contradictions in your bill – without any trial of intent on the choices that you would be led to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u299	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u300	Mr Minister, since you are kind enough to aim at us individually, I would point out that we were happy to be able to table amendments on the masks on 7 May: before that, we would have had a lot of difficulty in doing so, since there were no masks, except those that the regions, departments and municipalities distributed – that is to say, in order to respond to your tacle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u301	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u302	We, at least, have been constant on the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u303	I always defend the wearing of the mask in a state of emergency, because it is protective – that is why I signed these amendments. Opinions may differ on this point. However, there is no relationship between wearing the mask and prohibiting movement or demonstration. It is perfectly possible to wear a mask to go to work or to a meeting, including political or union meetings, or to a demonstration. I repeat, there is no relation between the two things: your reasoning, which aims to put a member of the opposition in difficulty, is particularly inappropriate. Very honestly, he's flopping! It is not with such specious arguments that you will raise the level of our debate: you are much better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u304	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u305	I wasn't trying to attack you or hurt you, Mr. Gosselin. If I were to be offended at every incartade I've been subjected to during all those days and nights that I've spent in Parliament, I wouldn't have finished it – I'm thinking in particular of the gross counter-truths you've just expressed, saying that the communities had preceded the state in the distribution of masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u306	That's the truth! Communities would not have needed to do this if the state had played its part!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u307	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I propose that you take an oath before the committee of inquiry, which begins, before unpacking such balivers: it will be up to you to assume the criminal risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u309	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Gosselin, I didn't want to put a room back in the machine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u310	Colleagues, please: we will not open a committee of inquiry into masks during these debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u311	You're on your skin, Mr. Gosselin. Why did I make the link between the mandatory wearing of the mask and the ban on using transport? Because your amendments, if voted, would no longer prevent a person from getting on a plane or coming down on the subway, if he does not comply with health prevention measures, such as wearing a mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u312	You can do it otherwise! Airlines can impose it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u313	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] And that, even though you want to extend the obligation to wear the mask to public space! Be consistent with yourself by withdrawing your amendment. Otherwise, I repeat, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u314	It's nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u315	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u316	Minister, you know very well that airlines can very well impose the wearing of a mask in a contractual way when they sell a ticket. Moreover, half of the shops in Paris impose this obligation on their customers. If it's illegal, we need to make it known quickly. There is therefore no need to have this enormous hammer adopted allowing you to wait for individual freedoms in our country, for a total of eight months. The state wants to regulate everything, which is absurd. My amendment concerns establishments receiving from the public. Because of the decree you made, it is possible to rent a party room for a wedding – guests will have to hold themselves, during the meal, one meter away from each other – but it is forbidden to dance. Do you realize, Minister, the absurdity of such a state interference with the lives of our fellow citizens? Since our country claims to be that of freedoms, shouldn't you start by trusting our compatriots? That at the peak of the crisis, the House was unanimous in allowing you to take derogatory measures, that is to say! But we are not going to live forever under this regime that violates freedoms. Other legal instruments, less intrusive than those you propose, should be provided for. Your conception of freedom makes us seriously think.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u318	Disadvantaged: The health situation makes it necessary to extend the possibility of closing certain establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u320	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u321	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u322	We have at least, on the issue of masks, the advantage of having been constant since the beginning of the crisis, whether on 7 April, 7 May or 7 June, which has not been the case with the Government. This amendment allows us to stress double hypocrisy. The first is that you are able to limit access to public facilities by imposing draconian sanitary conditions, while reopening nurseries and kindergartens, in which no social distancing is possible. Any parent of a child under the age of three knows that very well! The second is comprehensive: your text provides for conditions that may be more restrictive than those adopted in the context of the state of emergency itself, in order to leave the state of emergency. You cannot stay in the middle of the ford: either you assume the provisions of the first texts and you draw the consequences; or you draw the consequences of the current situation and assume your responsibilities without asking Parliament to do so in your place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u323	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u324	On 1 June, about 50 people from the same family gathered together: twenty-two of them were infected with covid-19. But it's all right! We no longer need any tools to control the situation! You caricature the action of the Government by suggesting that other reasons animate it than the safeguarding of public health. It's serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u325	It is the text that is caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u326	This is completely inconsistent, because it risks persuading our fellow citizens – I hope that this will not be the case – that there is no longer a problem and that life can start again as before. It's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u327	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u328	You're incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u329	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 33 and 72. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u330	We have just mentioned freedom of movement. It is another freedom, or rather another exorbitant power of the Prime Minister, that this amendment is aimed at, since the text gives it the opportunity to order the closure of establishments receiving from the public. This power seems disproportionate to me, as I said, in the context of the exit from the state of emergency: that is why a simple regulation of the opening up of establishments receiving from the public seems to us more consistent with the new situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u331	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u332	I will reply to my colleague Vuilletet that his logic is to ban everything. Since car accidents occur, the car should be banned. You have told an anecdote, certainly detestable, since people have been contaminated, but it is a case throughout France! Should it lead to the prohibition of all marriages?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u333	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u334	It is not possible to do so. It is on such a logic that the text is based.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u335	He's a liberticide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u336	That is why the possibility should be given to regulate, not to prohibit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u338	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u340	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u341	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u342	Minister, we have no other objective but to remove you from your own demons. An event, in the context of the review of the emergency bill to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, which was enacted on March 23, struck me deeply: while we had discussed at length the restriction of the scope of freedoms that we could allow under this bill, at the end of the debate, you tabled an amendment at the sitting, allowing you to put an end to all the freedoms to come and go, to meet and to undertake. That's how it was written, minister: we can release the March minutes. Well, I am still angry today that I have not been more virulent in combating the adoption of this amendment. Fortunately, the Joint Joint Committee was able to come back to this: dissecting each of these three freedoms, it found less generous formulations, if I may say so, but still very restrictive. Because we voted for this text, because we trusted you, we are entitled today not to entrust you with so many prerogatives, as much power, but to better control your action, because the result is not at hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u343	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u344	After the freedom of demonstration, it is the freedom of assembly that we want to protect. To prohibit certain meeting places is, in fact, to prohibit certain types of demonstration or expression of political, trade union or associative thought, which seems particularly dangerous to us. Of course, summer may not be the most conducive to this type of expression, but the return, I said, may be more or less hot and spirits may need to express themselves in meeting places. I would remind you that in September there will also be Senate elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u345	The restaurants have reopened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u346	Of course, I will be told that these elections bring together in the departments only a few people – the great voters – and that they therefore do not give rise to major meetings, like other elections. However, large voters must be able to meet in order to guarantee plural expression. We see absolutely no reason to ban meeting places. Finally, I repeat once again that the common law makes it perfectly possible, in the interests of respect for public order, to prohibit certain meetings or access to certain places, including, under certain conditions, establishments receiving from the public, or ERP. I therefore see no reason to give you an additional blank: the existing positive law can apply without any difficulty to the exit from the state of emergency, while respecting your legitimate wish to guarantee the best possible security. We do not dispute this objective, but the means you want to use are not the right ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u348	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u349	You see me astonished!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u350	Your amendment, Mr Gosselin, seeks to delete the words "meeting places", which I agree are not very specific, but which were backed up by the words "receiving establishments from the public" precisely because this mention deserved to be completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u351	LES have a legal existence! They're meeting places!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u352	It would be nice not to interrupt me; It makes me lose the thread of my thoughts and opens up a parallel debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u353	We are listening to you, Madam rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u354	Contrary to what the summary statement of your amendment suggests, the operative part does not cover public meetings, whether political or trade union...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u355	The text doesn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u356	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I'm telling you, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u357	Please, Mr. Schellenberger, Mr. Gosselin! The debate does not rule out respect for the speaker. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor and we are listening to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to clarify the meeting places covered by the text: these are not political or union meeting places, but rather – I am well aware of the nature of the example I will take – places like beaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u359	When we talk about meeting places, we don't think about beaches!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u360	I have no intention of specifically targeting them, especially since, like many Frenchmen, I too hope to be able to go there this summer, but these are places where frequentation could be too important. The device also targets areas where it would be found that barrier actions are not applied. In that case, their access should be regulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u361	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u362	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u363	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u364	Madam rapporteur, in the light of your explanation, it is clear that the wording of the text is in fact a bedrock. By "meeting places", you actually mean the meeting places, thus the public space. But that is the explanation that you have just given us that will be authentic to the judge when he or she has to apply the law. You want to limit or prohibit all meetings in public space. We imagined – perhaps wrongly – that you were trying to restrict the freedom of political encounter, which was already dramatic. But limiting all encounters in all public spaces is even worse! That is one more reason why we should vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u365	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u366	We will not let it be said that we want to prohibit access to any place, at any time, in a systematic way, because that is not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u367	It's the text that says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u368	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let us take the text, which I recall incidentally, was amended in committee: it provides for "regulating public gatherings and meetings of all kinds... and subjecting them to authorization". You yourself tabled an amendment in committee to delete the word 'prohibit' on the pretext that it was a cursed word. The work carried out in committee has led us to change the wording of the paragraph so that it refers, on the one hand, to the word "regulating" and, on the other, to the words "subjecting to authorization", which imply not merely a logic of declaration. You could at least acknowledge the remarkable work carried out by the rapporteur in committee, which made it possible to clarify the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u369	Remarkable is not the term I would use...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u370	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 23, 34, 50, 64, 73 and 81. I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u371	It is intended to delete article 1, paragraph 4, without which, for another four months, you would retain full powers to prohibit in our country the constitutional rights of freedom of demonstration and freedom of assembly. In itself, the extension of such a discretionary power obviously raises questions, particularly in a country which, I repeat, is fundamentally committed to freedoms. But what raises even more questions, minister, is the use you make – or do not make – of the power that you are given. I am of course thinking of the Minister of the Interior's recent remarks: while he admits that a few weeks ago, the law enforcement agencies verbalized elderly people walking their dogs without the right certification, he allowed a demonstration to take place without reacting, justifying his inaction by the fact that "emotion... exceeds... the legal rules". In fact, the full powers you are asking for, so you are exercising them only in a completely discretionary manner, which is extremely worrying for our country. I would also like the rapporteur or yourself to explain very precisely how you intend to apply the provisions of the text. Indeed, a few days ago, the Council of State suspended the implementation of article 3 of the decree prescribing the general measures necessary to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 in the context of the state of health emergency, and very concretely reflecting the provisions that you are asking us to allow you to take. By respecting the jurisprudence of the Council of State, how do you intend to give any strength to the measures you are asking us to adopt?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u372	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u373	Similar to the previous one, it is intended to delete article 1, paragraph 4, because we believe that it is perhaps even urgent that the fundamental freedom to manifest be restored as soon as possible. Indeed, I understand that democratic life will resume its rights, and that is so much better: today we have received the timetable for our future work, which indicates that we will soon be discussing the bioethics bill, particularly the LDC – medically assisted reproduction. I also understand that the President of the Republic himself has indicated that, very soon, the sensitive debate on pension reform will also be discussed. In these circumstances, I would find it difficult to imagine that democratic life cannot be expressed in a full and complete manner. I even think that, in this context, the measures you are advocating send a signal that may be interpreted as a desire to restrain the expression of those who would like to participate in democratic life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u374	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u375	Do you really believe that, on topics like those I mentioned, demonstrations will not take place simply because you want to ban them? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u376	They won't be banned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u377	In conclusion, I think that you are also in danger of placing our law enforcement forces in an extremely complex situation, when they do not need this right now. Your proposal is clumsy; you should waive paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u378	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u379	With regard to the deletion of paragraph 4, this amendment is part of a political context that cannot be left out. Indeed, it is the framework of our discussions and, as Olivier Marleix pointed out, of the use of the rights that we entrust to you. In this case, the context is that of the persistent state of health emergency, which precisely regulates the acts and meetings of the right person, which respects the law and which, if it takes a step on its side, is ipso facto reprimanded – perhaps rightly, by the way. However, in the same context, the Minister of the Interior states that "emotion... exceeds... legal rules". In which country, in which rule of law do we live when a Government to which full powers are entrusted considers that emotion can exceed the law? What will he do with his power to restrict freedoms? We do not accept that a duly declared demonstration, relating to a subject of society – whether it is the local economic situation or any other – should be prohibited or restricted, while at the same time, with the assurance of the Minister of the Interior, an undeclared, spontaneous demonstration should not take place because it does not even meet the minimum conditions of legality, this criterion of declaration which allows to guarantee the constitutional right to demonstrate. We also do not accept that you do not protect the freedom to demonstrate caregivers, whose protest yesterday, rightly organized after weeks and weeks of exhaustion, was hijacked by a group of breakers. That is the reality of the political situation that you are creating, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u380	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u381	You create two distinct legal regimes: one for the right people, who are increasingly oppressed; One for the others, who can do what they want. This is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u382	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u383	It concerns the right to demonstrate. As we have already said, we consider that the common law already allows for the supervision of events, particularly in the light of health circumstances. Minister, what we are challenging, I repeat, is the white-sing given to the Government for more than four months. On the other hand, I would like to warn you about the drift, which pushes citizens to hold unauthorised demonstrations, while an authorized demonstration, supervised by a law enforcement agency and organising dispersal devices, is much better than a wild demonstration that ends up in a nasse that favours violence of all kinds. Let us return to the common law, which already provides for this type of framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u385	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u386	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u387	As we move out of the state of health emergency, political life must resume. However, the measures contained in paragraph 4 limit it. One understands the idea behind the inclusion of these measures in the law: if they were of a regulatory nature, they could be challenged before the administrative courts; In our legal order, the law is a step above. But frankly, the freedom to demonstrate and the freedom of assembly deserve to remain in the Rules of Procedure and allow the French to challenge any restrictive measures. I said that earlier, and this was taken up by my colleague Hervé Saulignac – to whom, by the way, I wish a good holiday, since today it is the Saint Hervé, this great Breton saint that I do not forget – :...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u388	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u389	...do you think we can ban demonstrations of a political nature? You'll put the law enforcement forces in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u390	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u391	I share the arguments that have just been put forward: my amendment also seeks to delete paragraph 4, which concerns demonstrations. Indeed, it simply lacks realism: in practice, to impose respect for barrier actions is impossible in demonstrations of magnitude where a large number of demonstrators are predictable, as at the demonstration organized yesterday by the health care providers, that of the law enforcement agencies, or those related to the bill on pension reform or the bioethics bill. Because it is not realistic, this criterion is in fact absolutely arbitrary, and therefore political: the State could choose in an abusive manner the demonstrations entitled to the city. But the manifestation is a means of exerting pressure on political power, because it can influence – or not – the legislator. The bioethics and pension reform bill has mobilized thousands of people on the streets; It would be undemocratic if these draft laws, like others, were reviewed without anyone being able to express themselves again. By definition, societal reforms divide society; If the latter cannot be heard on the streets, we will be able to question democracy in the country. The indulgence which the Minister of the Interior has shown with regard to some recent demonstrations cannot be denied to others, unless we define what emotion is. We therefore take the risk of spontaneous demonstrations, far less framed than demonstrations taking place according to the rules of common law. The limitation of the right to manifest cannot be prolonged without ignoring the fundamental right to manifest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u392	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u393	I would point out that the work done in committee has profoundly changed paragraph 4, because some colleagues seem to have missed the work done. The adoption of the amendments, i.e. the deletion of paragraph 4, would place us in a situation which is expressly contrary to the recommendations of the Scientific Council with regard to the observance of barrier actions during demonstrations or the limitation of the number of participants. I think everyone here has been able to see, especially in the last few days, that no one wishes to prevent the French from meeting or questioning their right to demonstrate. The question is not here. The demonstrations were able to take place, and that should be enough to close the debate. With regard to the order issued by the Council of State last weekend, it is very clear that there is a need to maintain a legal tool to both enforce the barrier measures and ensure that gatherings will not exceed the limit of 5000 people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u394	That's what we see every night!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u395	Unless there's emotion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u396	It is the order of the Council of State that says so. Your amendments to delete paragraph 4 are therefore both contrary to the requirements of the Scientific Council and to the opinion of the Council of State. The drafting that we have been working on in the Law Committee proposes a two-tier system, which sets out a new, detailed legislative framework adapted to the transitional phase of exit from the state of emergency. First, public gatherings and spontaneous meetings of any kind that do not require a particular organization may not be prohibited. On the other hand, they may be subject to a framework of the number of participants and specific regulations, aimed in particular at allowing the observance of barrier actions in all circumstances. As for the public highway demonstrations declared in prefecture on the basis of article L. 211-2 of the Code of Internal Security, they will be subject to an appropriate, detailed and transitional authorisation regime with regard to the implementation of the barrier measures designed to combat the epidemic of covid-19 and to protect the French who exercise their right to demonstrate. That is why I am against the deletion of paragraph 4, which guarantees the right to demonstrate in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u397	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u398	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u399	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u400	Article 1 was particularly weak, and its rewriting by the committee did not change anything, as the rapporteur has just demonstrated to us by saying that we did not know exactly what an LES is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u401	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u402	So, I'm sorry: an institution receiving from the public falls within a category perfectly identified by law; It is not a nebula, because LES of categories 1 to 5 are listed, depending on the audience welcomed – I will not go into details. On the other hand, we don't know what a meeting place is. You cited the example of a beach, and you yourself showed your doubt by admitting that it was not a very good example. Indeed, if you tell our fellow citizens that you are going to ban certain meeting places, they will not spontaneously think of the beaches. They will think of places of leisure, possibly ponds, undergrowth, forests or the coastline, whose access has already been prohibited during the first phase of the state of health emergency. The concept of meeting place is very broad, unlike that of ERP, which is very precise and refers to specific regulations. A meeting place can be any public or private place – that is not specified! I therefore maintain my point: your text is liberticide, and the wording you want to impose on us is even broader than some of the provisions adopted earlier. Thus, the bill violates fundamental rights: freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u403	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u404	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I agree with my friends in the EDS group when they say that an authorized demonstration is better than an unauthorized demonstration. In fact, we do not do anything else in this text! Until November 10, we maintain the possibility of banning a demonstration or a meeting – indeed, this term is a debate – where there is a cluster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u405	You don't need that! The law has allowed it for a hundred years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u406	While the state of health emergency runs until 10 July, a demonstration organized yesterday, 16 June, was not banned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u407	Yes, she was!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u408	And if she wasn't, what's all this for, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u409	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LR and FI groups]] You're making us trials of intent that don't have to be. You know me: in this assembly, I'm not the one you can tax on liberticide! I still think that we need to take precautions. That we can, at some point, limit a meeting because of a cluster seems to me to be a good policy; I'm sorry, it's just called common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u410	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u411	I recognize that the oppositions are stable in their arguments, which they repeat to each amendment; Nor will we hesitate to repeat the same arguments to defend the bill. We must read the latter: at the end of the state of health emergency, so when we return to normal, we give the Prime Minister the opportunity, for public health purposes only, to regulate the holding of meetings or demonstrations, which would then be subject to authorization rather than simply being declared. We will then be in a normal situation, much less regulated than at present, but we anticipate the occurrence of specific situations where we will have to intervene again for public health purposes only. It is not true that the existing law provides for this. The rapporteur has been perfectly clear on the use of Article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health: could we take advantage of exceptional circumstances, while the epidemic has been going on for a few months, unless I am mistaken? There is a need for a legal framework. I hear that we have to let things happen and be confident, but are we going to ask the organizers of a meeting or event in a sensitive place to count the participants and to ban them from the five-thousand-first person? It's a joke! All this is not consistent: we are in an intermediate period, we claim it; So we need intermediate tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u412	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u413	Mr. Minister, you'd like to stretch out to get beaten that you wouldn't do otherwise. Everyone knows that social re-entry is going to be difficult, and you are proposing a text that can be used to ban or reduce demonstrations. What a sense of opportunity! What a political sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u414	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u415	I know that within the majority, some advocated the deletion of 3° from Article 1. The committee preferred to rewrite it, as the rapporteur pointed out, but in what terms? You want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to "regulate gatherings on the public road", of course, but also "meetings of all kinds"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u416	Yes, "of all nature"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u417	What does that mean? If I organize a small meeting to celebrate my birthday, can we regulate it? Can anyone tell me, "For your birthday, Monsieur de Courson, no more than five people"?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u418	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u419	How are you going to do that? You are going to run into the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which has already beaten you for the first time, explaining that you would not be able to regulate private meetings such as family meetings, which are part of all kinds of meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u420	We won't be allowed to dance in weddings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u421	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, FI and EDS groups]] Excuse me for having a bad mind – it happens to me sometimes – but how will you control the application of this 3° if you ever implement it? Perhaps you will never do so because many parliamentarians would like to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. Do you think that you will hold for a long time with such a poorly drafted and excessively infringing text on freedoms?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u422	I should like to thank the honourable Member for his support for Amendment No. 83, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u423	The aim of the Government's amendment is to enable the Prime Minister to impose a negative virological test in air transport and to prescribe quarantine and isolation measures upon arrival in the hexagon of persons from the overseas. As the Scientific Council has pointed out, the epidemic is under overall control, but action is still needed in the coming weeks. We know in particular that there are difficulties and areas of tension in overseas – we have already quoted Guyana and Mayotte today. In June, the Government launched an experiment inviting travellers to certain ultramarine territories to conduct a PCR – chain polymerization reaction – test for covid-19 within 72 hours of the flight. This test can be performed without medical prescription, upon presentation of the reservation of a ticket, which allows the passengers to have the result of their test before taking the plane. On the basis of this experiment, the purpose of this amendment is to enable the Prime Minister to impose such a test on persons wishing to travel by public air transport between the metropolis and an ultramarine community or between two of these communities. Indeed, every effort must be made to limit the risk of spread of the virus in ultramarine territories, for all the reasons you imagine and we have already had the opportunity to mention. That is why the state has been putting the package in the ultramarine territories, since the beginning of the crisis, both in human reinforcements and in material reinforcements, for the protection of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u424	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 83 and to support Sub-amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u425	The sub-amendment is in line with the balance found in the Joint Joint Committee on the law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. While taking account of health developments in certain overseas territories, it aims to exclude flights from overseas communities where the infection does not circulate from the testing scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u426	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u427	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u428	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u429	I do not think the Government's amendment is very clear. We all agree that in Guadeloupe, Martinique and Réunion, the situation has changed relatively well – they are classified as a green zone. In Guyana and Mayotte, on the other hand, difficulties are still present. An experiment has been set up: on the basis of volunteering, people who leave Hexagon to go to Martinique can take a test; If the latter is negative, then they undergo what is called a "septain," a seven-day isolation, while people who do not have a test undergo a strict quarantine. The most recent cases of covid -19 in Martinique – a little more than twelve – have all been imported. The virus circulates very weakly on the island, if not at all. The measure now proposed by the Government seems useful to me because it allows economic development and the continuation of activities, while putting in place what I would call a "sanitary lock". There is no question of letting the virus circulate. However, there are two areas of shade. Firstly, the amendment provides for this test obligation, coupled with a quarantine for travel between Guadeloupe and Martinique. I'm not saying it, he's rereading the amendment: the quarantine measure would concern the journeys from Martinique to Guadeloupe and vice versa. Secondly, the amendment, as it is written, would impose quarantine in the opposite direction, i.e. from Martinique to Hexagon, which would be a considerable step backwards. As I understand it, Sub-amendment No 84 abolishes quarantine for travellers from Martinique to Hexagon: this is a very good proposal. We do not want the setting up of a quarantine, but the organization of a sanitary lock, with a test before departure and another seven days after arrival,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u430	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u431	... in such a way that we are assured that people arriving in Martinique are not covid +. Since these two tests are made mandatory, we are of course in favour of the abolition of the seventeen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u432	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u433	If the efforts made for Mayotte and Guyana are tangible, I continue to say that they are still too late, when the situation has been allowed to deteriorate in a very bad way. The amendment and the sub-amendment that we are discussing seem to me to be striking at the point of common sense for these two territories: they will help us to drastically limit the circulation of the virus in our territories. However, I would like to recall, after my colleague Letchimy, what consequences they will have on the great economic balances in particular. Tourism, hotels and restaurants, in particular, are hit hard by these binding and dissuasive provisions, the consequences of which will not be the same depending on whether you are in France or overseas. So I can understand the guideline. However, in the cases of Mayotte and Guyana, it seems to me that the work already done will have to be strengthened. That is why, in accordance with Scientific Council Opinion No 7 of 2 June, I call for the rapid implementation of a plan for prevention and protection against covid-19 for these two territories, and for the strengthening of budgetary and economic support measures for very small enterprises and micro-enterprises, bearing in mind that some have already taken the lead and that others are likely to disappear in the coming weeks or months. The right balance must be struck between the necessary constraints and their consequences, so that not all companies in these territories disappear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u434	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u435	Outside Guyana and Mayotte, the epidemic is controlled overseas; Anyway, we're in the green zone. In Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the authorities reacted very quickly, from the beginning of the crisis, by drastically reducing the air and maritime services of the archipelago, by putting in place strict quaterzaines, accompanied by tests at the entrance and exit, and by adopting, as everywhere in the metropolis, containment and measures of social distancing. As a result, only one case was registered and very quickly confined to Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. It can therefore be reasonably said today that the virus does not circulate, a priori, which explains the debunking that occurred earlier than in Hexagon. The external threat, whether coming from neighbouring Canada or metropolitan France, is in sharp decline. So there is the question of opening up the territory, which we want to be progressive, controlled and controlled. With the end of the state of emergency, all efforts made by the population and the authorities should not be ruined. Therefore – this is a strong desire expressed by the population – it is necessary to maintain a control mechanism at entry into the territory after 10 July. Given the controlled epidemic context, this device can be lightened, as our colleague Letchimy said, for example by providing for only one test before departure and another seven days after arrival; However, the arrival in the territory must be controlled. I have heard the previous comments on the liberticide of maintaining control measures, but our ultramarine territories are fragile and are not as well equipped as Hexagon for a health response. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen to the island and ultramarine specificities so that our people can go through this complicated period as calmly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u436	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u437	This amendment by the Government is a sign of contempt, but above all a terrible confession. The Minister of Solidarity and Health told us that he had put the package; I remember the pack of mouldy masks that came to Reunion: if that's what he was talking about, we agree! Nevertheless, this amendment is the admission that nothing has been done in due course in the Overseas Territories to ensure that the pandemic is controlled and that people are protected at best. They have been abandoned and abandoned, and we now see the result in Mayotte and Guyana. This amendment is only the admission of this terrible inconsistency for our fellow citizens. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u438	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u439	It is in my capacity as the former Special Rapporteur on air transport appropriations that I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, a question which is certainly secondary, but nevertheless important. I will take the example, mentioned earlier, of Martinique: one can go there from the metropolis, but also from the United States or from another foreign country close to the West Indies. Under these conditions, how will you apply your measure? Air transport law is characterized by the principle of reciprocity: for passengers coming from third countries and travelling to or returning from these territories, an IATA – International Air Transport Association (IATA) agreement is required. In the absence of such an agreement, the measure you are advocating will not apply. Could you explain why your amendment only envisages traffic between parts of French territory and not from or to third countries?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u440	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u441	How are you going to deal with this issue? To visit my good friend Letchimy in the West Indies, I can indeed pass through the United States, taking a flight from Paris to Miami and then from Miami to my final destination. Can you explain to us how your amendment will work if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u442	He's not gonna walk! He won't even fly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u443	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u444	[[Minister denies head]] Our colleague Charles de Courson is asking an excellent question which I see in your face, Madam Minister, that she seems to leave you a little perplexed. We'll see how you answer that. Beyond this very technical but interesting question, there is in reality the question of a form of discrimination against ultramarine citizens. Once again, your amendment undermines freedom of movement, to which we are particularly committed. It is understandable that measures concern Mayotte and Guyana, where the health situation is indeed unique. However, for speaking on the telephone just a few hours ago, with Mansour Kamardine, our Member of Parliament for Mayotte, I can tell you that teachers are being asked to reorganise the school to accommodate all the students, but that we are unable to provide tests, so that we do not know how we will manage to control anything. On the other hand, we're going to confine people, not at home, but on their island, from which they won't be able to get out! This is a strange measure, which I consider to be particularly discriminatory. I have another question, more legal. You would like to change the title of article L. 3131 of the Public Health Code by transforming the "national territory" into "hexagonal territory". I will have to be explained the legal significance of the concept of Hexagon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u445	It's better than talking about metropolis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u446	Until proven otherwise, the Republic recognizes the national territory in its diversity. If the word "Hexagone" is used in a familiar way – we also speak of mainland France – the hexagonal territory seems to me, on the other hand, to be a new legal concept, of which I am not sure that it passes all the controls!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u447	It's a legal notion that we invented here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u448	I understand that in the common sense, Mr Letchimy, but it is a matter of including it in the law, which is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u449	Metropole, it's not okay! When there's a metropolis, there's a colony!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u450	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u451	Mr Letchimy, as you have understood, the Government's amendment provides for a measure that would allow for the imposition of a PCR test in air transport when boarding, from the hexagonal territory towards the overseas, between the overseas territories and from abroad to the national territory. My sub-amendment provides that a PCR test cannot be imposed on persons embarking from an overseas territory in which the virus would not circulate, i.e. in a green zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u452	But also between overseas territories in a green zone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u453	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u454	But it's not written!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u455	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u456	Let me first apologize for the slight delay I arrived with. I will try to answer all your questions, recalling that the amendment and the sub-amendment are intended to take account of the situation in the ultramarine territories. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the national framework has, of course, been applied in the ultramarine territories, but we have insisted that any decision should be adapted to each of these territories. That is why we are talking about the ultramarine territories in the plural, since not all of them have adapted national decisions in the same way. It is now a matter of reopening these territories, of which you know they have been very strictly closed. Some, such as Mayotte and Polynesia, were not served by any flights, which is why we set up air bridges, respectively with La Réunion and Paris. Others were served by one, two or three flights a week. This limitation in the number of flights made it possible to control the virus in these territories; However, this medically useful confinement has had serious economic and family consequences. The virus is now controlled in almost all territories, outside of Mayotte and Guyana – I will come back to that. It is therefore time to reopen these territories to allow for family reunions and the taking of enhanced leave – I have spoken a lot about "affinitarian trips". We're on the rendezvous. What have we done in the last few days? First decision: as of 22 June, it will no longer be necessary to have a compelling reason to travel overseas. Second decision: the number of passengers on flights will no longer be limited. The flights to the ultramarine territories were limited to 60 passengers, then gradually loosened the constraint up to 150 and finally 200 passengers. From 22 June, the number of passengers on a flight will no longer be limited and, gradually, in agreement with the prefects and elected representatives of the territories, we will increase the flow of flights to the ultramarine territories from Hexagone – since that is the term we would like to use, rather than the metropolitan one, after a great debate that we have already had together, and I will mention later the legal aspect of this question. We must now talk about the period following July 10 and the end of the state of emergency: how can we reopen the ultramarine territories while maintaining health vigilance, which is our priority? Be aware that it is these territories that have requested and requested the maintenance of a sanitary filter – Serge Letchimy uses the word "locking" – imposing a test on travellers who wish to travel to an ultramarine territory from Hexagon. However, in order for this test to be made compulsory, it is necessary to go through the law, which is why I am before you. This test will therefore be mandatory for all ultramarine territories as of 10 July. This does not prevent the prefects – it is also provided for in the law – from issuing local recommendations. In response to Serge Letchimy, I would point out that the prefect of Martinique can thus request, in a recommendation note, the completion of a second test seven to eight days after the arrival of the passengers. It is not the law that will specify this point in detail, but such a recommendation may be formulated, in the same way as that of not visiting fragile persons or not participating in major events that would be organized locally. This is the principle of this compulsory test. This is why another device intended to replace the quaterzaine has been experimenting for a few weeks and until July 10 in certain ultramarine territories – Reunion, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy: test before departure, seven days of vigilance and then a second test; If this one is negative, one can go to all his occupations in complete freedom, respecting, of course, the barrier gestures and recommendations of wearing the mask valid in all territories. It is therefore a matter of reconciling the protection of the ultramarine territories and the revival of the economy of these territories, whose tourism is often the basis. That is why we wish to strengthen the financial tools already put in place by the State to support this sector which has suffered a great deal. With regard to the links between ultramarine territories, the principle is extremely simple: it is the unconditional freedom of movement between Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin. On the other hand, the quartet is maintained between the territories in the green zone and those in the orange zone, where the virus is still circulating: it is thus maintained between the Antilles and Guyana, where the virus is still circulating, unless it is believed that it can be replaced by the obligation to test. It's the same thing between Mayotte and La Réunion. The issue of flights from abroad is very relevant and raises the question of IATA agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u457	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u458	The President announced that, from 1 July, air links with countries outside the European Union could resume. It is a question of knowing under what conditions. For my part, I will continue to defend the obligation to test flights from the United States or Canada and upon arrival in the West Indies, or from Mauritius and the arrival of La Réunion – especially as Mauritius maintains sustained relations with South Africa, whose epidemic situation is known. That is the position I will take at the next interdepartmental meetings, whether it be transit flights or direct flights, particularly to the West Indies, many from North America. I do not dispute that this is a restriction of freedom of movement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u459	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u460	...but it's to protect the ultramarine territories. This is the Government's choice, but it has done so at the unanimous request of all the elected members of the ultramarine territories! Of course, the situation in Guyana and Mayotte obliges us, one, as we have seen, to maintain a state of emergency in these territories, and two, to impose a test and a quartezaine on arrival in these territories as on arrival in Hexagon for flights from these territories. This logic is common sense since the virus continues to circulate there. We all hope that, by 10 July or a little later, we will be able to reopen these territories also, by decree – because this is the procedure – while continuing to limit the number of flights to these two destinations, currently limited to two flights per week for Mayotte, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u461	For the sake of our ultramarine colleagues and because of the importance of the subject, I will exceptionally allow further statements. Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u462	I thank you for giving me the floor again on an extremely important subject, which deserves us to be much more precise, even to suspend the meeting for a few minutes so that you can provide us with more details. [[Minister approves head]] So you're officially confirming that there will be no four-year or mandatory testing between territories in the green zone, such as Martinique or Guadeloupe? However, that is not what is written in your amendment, but your word is correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u463	Oh, no! The ministerial word is not worth the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u464	Of course, dear colleague of Courson. I note, however, that the rapporteur's sub-amendment to the Overseas and Hexagonian connections provides for the lifting of the test requirement laid down in the government amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u465	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u466	It's good that there was a flaw in his writing. But the Government is asking us "to introduce a mandatory quarantine for passengers from these territories", including, therefore, Martinique, "as it is already possible for them": it is not I who say so, it is in the summary statement of the amendment. But there are no quarantines or septeens, or anything of this order, when we come from Fort-de-France to go to Paris, as is my case. We must therefore also remove quarantine, just like the test! On the other hand, while it is true that most of Martinique's elected officials – I do not know what is happening in Guadeloupe – stress the need to release ballast in order to revive the machine while locking up health security. This text makes the test mandatory, that's very good, but will the septa be deleted, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u467	I will return to you, Mr Schellenberger, but I do not appreciate that you have tried to obtain it by way of a point of order. I am doing so because the subject calls for some indulgence on my part, but I ask you to respect our debates and avoid using this procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u468	I find your speech unbalanced, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u469	Go on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u470	You called me directly, Mr. President; If you prefer, I can answer you with a point of order. If I were to threaten you with a point of order, it is because I believe that this is an essential debate on what the Republic is and the integrity of the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u471	Go ahead, express yourself on the bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u472	That's what I'm doing. We can't mess with such an important debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u473	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u474	We're not messing with anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u475	... opened by an amendment tabled this morning by the Government and by a sub-amendment by the rapporteur, whom we are discovering at the sitting. This raises an essential question, namely the definition and integrity of the national territory, since there are borders within it. This is certainly because it has been necessary to deal with the crisis by establishing such borders between red, orange and green areas, but we are going down there to a level of detail in the establishment of these borders which is calling upon me. I would not like the overseas territories, departments or regions to be treated other than the hexagonal or continental territory. I have the feeling that there is, on this point, a floating, obviously linked to the health situation and our inability to provide our ultramarine territories with the necessary sanitary equipment – the Minister of Health admitted earlier, in a way – but also to a kind of inability to manage our external borders in these territories, for example in Mayotte. While the requirement for testing for domestic flights is in place, it is not entirely certain that it is required to do so for flights from abroad. And here we are talking only about air transport, but what about the illegal entry into Mayotte territory, which is particularly numerous?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u476	I'm going to ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u477	These are all questions that we need to discuss and answer before we can adopt the amendment and the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u478	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u479	Mr Letchimy, what we are asking you is to give us an opportunity to act in ways that will obviously be specified by an implementing decree. Only the law can impose this test obligation, which will only apply when necessary, through regulation: it will be up to the decree to specify in which cases, under what terms and for which territories. This is why the text does not specifically target Mayotte or Guyana but speaks of territories where the virus circulates; In this respect, it may apply to other territories, even if we hope that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u480	Thank you for this rich and useful debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u481	It is intended to delete paragraph 5, which provides that the measures prescribed in the first four subparagraphs are for the sole purpose of combating the epidemic of covid -19. Why was this clarification deemed necessary, if not because these measures are exorbitant under ordinary law? It is because these are emergency measures that it was considered necessary to limit them to the epidemic of coronavirus. This amendment is therefore consistent with my previous requests to delete the first four paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u482	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u483	While the epidemic is considered "under control", in the words of the Scientific Council, it does not seem necessary or even useful to take these collective or individual measures of deprivation of liberty and much less to empower the representative of the territorially competent State, the prefect in this case, to take such sensitive measures. In addition, this paragraph was largely inspired by article L.3131-17. I do not think it necessary to go further than the ordinary law as codified by this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u484	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u485	It is intended to delete paragraph 8, which goes even further than paragraph 7. While the latter empowers the prefect to take measures to restrict freedoms, paragraph 8 allows him to restrict these freedoms himself. Such exorbitant powers of ordinary law are not adapted to the current situation of a controlled epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u486	I have before me two amendments, Nos 52 and 17, which can be presented together. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u487	Amendment No. 52 is consistent with Article 3, paragraph 4, as follows: "3 ° At the end of the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article L. 3131-17, the words "the Director General of the Regional Health Agency" shall be replaced by the words "the competent health authorities". It seems to me to be consistent that the two paragraphs should be drafted in the same way. Amendment No 17 goes back: I ask that the public opinion on the decisions taken by the State representative be given not by the Director of the SRA, but by the Scientific Committee. Indeed, during the health crisis, not all SRAs were up to the situation. Over the last few weeks, I have given an example of this in this Chamber on numerous occasions: the ARS of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur had given its green light, just before 11 May, so that the staff of the crèches and schools in Marseille could be tested before returning to the school, while the ARS of Occitanie refused this possibility to the staff of the city of Béziers. It is therefore not entirely unreasonable to favour the Scientific Committee on RSAs in formulating such opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u488	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u489	It will certainly delight our colleague Philippe Gosselin, since it aims to guarantee the greatest transparency of the decisions of the representatives of the State which infringe, in a territory, individual freedoms. It provides that the decisions of the State representative in a department must be communicated, upstream, to the chairman of the departmental council concerned and to the parliamentarians of the constituencies affected by the measures envisaged. This is simply a matter of good practice. Most of the measures adapted by the prefects are good, but it happens, for various reasons, that some representatives of the state have marottes. Decisions on the reopening of markets were very different from one department to another:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u490	Excellent example!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u491	... in my department, everything went well, but this was not the case in the next one – Mr. Gosselin would have some anecdotes to tell about the subject... I am also thinking of a prefect who banned the sale of strong alcohols, considering that their consumption would cause drunken men to brutalize their wives; But beer or any other alcohol could have the same consequences. Since the prefects are not infallible, it is good that they are advised by elected representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u492	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u493	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u494	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u495	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u496	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u497	I support Paul Molac's amendment. Indeed, the couple formed by the mayor and the prefect was in control of the decisions of the state representative during the crisis, which is quite normal, but the departmental elected officials and parliamentarians, who often accompany the mayors to make the link between national decisions and their application on the ground, must also be involved in decisions. This is very often the case in practice, but it deserves to be clarified in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u498	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 14 and 80. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u499	It is intended to delete paragraph 9. If the provisions of Article 1 were strictly proportionate to the health risk involved, we would not examine, in times of deconfinity and return to normal life, a text which grants the public authorities prerogatives specific to the state of emergency. It's both incoherent and dangerous. In recent weeks, Parliament has largely demonstrated its ability to legislate in a very short period of time. It could therefore meet the needs of a new wave, which I do not wish, of covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u500	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u501	It is intended to delete paragraph 9. The Scientific Council stated that the health situation was "under control" in France. Unless the Scientific Council, which has been followed by the Government in all the decisions taken so far, is not to be taken "strictly proportionate to the health risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place", since the health situation is under control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u502	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u503	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to delete paragraph 11, which is quite emblematic of the role the Government intends to give to Parliament as a board of registration: at best, it is informed. Parliament is coming together to legislate and the Government must be held accountable to it, not the other way around. It is urgent to return to a normal exercise of the work of parliamentarians, for the sake of our institutions and, above all, of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u504	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u505	Had we removed paragraph 4 of article 1, the freedom to demonstrate would not have been restored until July 10. The aim of this amendment is to restore this freedom without delay: the immediate return to the rule of law is imperative, we must not wait until 10 July.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u506	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u507	This amendment, which I mentioned a few minutes ago, aims to extend the state of emergency beyond 10 July in Mayotte and Guyana, where the virus is still circulating. It may be terminated by decree as soon as the situation returns to normal; At that time, clause 1 of the bill will apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u509	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u510	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u511	This proposal may be surprising because it does not go in the direction of restoring the normal situation, but, I repeat, few things normally work in Mayotte and Guyana. This is not necessarily the result of chance: the circulation of the virus could not be cut off because these two territories suffer from many other problems, which we are constantly denouncing in this House, but which have not been solved. In drawing this conclusion, I do not accuse anyone, being aware of the efforts made by each other. However, more needs to be done to address economic and budgetary issues, as well as issues relating to the development of public infrastructure and facilities, education and training. All these elements converged to produce the current situation. I very much support the adoption of this amendment and hope, at the risk of repeating myself, that every effort will be made to better accompany these territories and to ensure that the current situation does not persist. The amendment extends the state of emergency until 30 October in Mayotte and Guyana; I hope that we will be able to normalize the situation before that date, but this will require a great deal of effort from the members of the Government, whom I thank in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u512	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u513	Like my colleague Serville, I would like to stress the peculiarity of the situation and the specificity of the difficulties in Mayotte and Guyana, and indeed in all the overseas countries; As I was just saying, I talked about it this afternoon with Mansour Kamardine, MP for Mayotte. The mechanism you wish to put in place in this text, which we are fighting against, should allow you to manage the situation in these two territories. With the text that is likely to be adopted in a few minutes, you will be able to restrict freedom of movement and demonstration, and maintain a form of state of emergency. I do not consider this to be necessary, contrary to Mr Serville's conclusion, with which I disagree. There are also other difficulties, particularly in Mayotte, probably because of insularity and a very poorly controlled immigration: the aisles and arrivals are incessant; the actual population is approximately twice as high as the official population; health checks do not hold; Finally, despite the considerable efforts of the State, which I stress, there is still a lack of resources. Differentiation is justified for health reasons, but the maintenance of the state of health emergency seems to us too radical, whereas the text could also apply to these territories, with adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u514	Mr Philippe Gosselin, on Rule 2, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u515	I do not want to prolong the debate unnecessarily, but I would like to speak on this article. The current version of the text differs somewhat from that of the Council of Ministers: I recognize that the rapporteur has made efforts to try to find a balance, but this is difficult to obtain on data retention. Above all, there is a complete break with the outcome of the laborious and complex negotiations in the Joint Joint Committee on the text of the law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. The rapporteur herself had finally recognised that the three-month retention period for personal data was relevant, proportionate, taking into account the circumstances, balanced and consistent with the purposes of computer and digital processing. Article 2 breaks with this protective framework. It is not I who say so, but the Constitutional Council itself: called upon to take a decision on the text extending the state of emergency, it made an important decision on 11 May, in which it rightly and for the first time considered that the processing of health data required special vigilance and that their shelf life should be kept as short as possible. If the amendment of the Law Committee is adopted, we will break the balance: the shelf life will no longer be proportionate or adapted, and will no longer meet the purposes set out in the law extending the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u516	I have before me nine identical amendments Nos 1, 12, 24, 35, 40, 51, 60, 62 and 77 to delete the article. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u517	It is intended to delete article 2, for a simple reason: the Government wishes to revert to commitments made in Parliament, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. As Mr. Gosselin pointed out at the moment, these commitments had also been made to health professionals, particularly general practitioners, so far, you cannot ignore, Mr. Minister, that the Medical Order stated, less than 48 hours ago, that the Government was going back on decisions. I will make a number of arguments. First, with regard to data retention and use, when creating the SIDEP file and that of AmeliPro, health professionals had agreed to participate, provided that health data were destroyed after use. However, you are now going back to this condition, which is a breach of the commitments made to healthcare professionals. Respect for medical confidentiality and the protection of the health data of the persons concerned are at stake. Secondly, Article 2 also refers to a decree, whereas this debate must take place in Parliament! As Mr Gosselin pointed out at the moment, this subject is likely to have a constitutional aspect. It is out of the question of dealing with it in a decree. Thirdly, it is absolutely incomprehensible that the Government should reverse its commitments, even as the pandemic recedes! These are important enough for us not to take them lightly. We will be opposed to research issues, but there are others, including the freedom and protection of individual data, with which we cannot compromise, otherwise we break with several essential principles. Article 2 should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u518	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u519	The length of time that certain personal data have been stored, everyone remembers, has given rise to many reactions, both in our Chamber and among the French in general. At the heart of the epidemic, we had conceded a breach of the principle of privacy, in the name of the need to preserve our public health. In the situation now prevailing, an extension of this derogation seems inappropriate, for several reasons. The first reason is, without a doubt, the extreme reservation of the Constitutional Council. Although he had validated, in a context of particular health tension, the establishment of a digital file to list the patients of covid-19, he had, however, expressed reservations about the preservation of private data. The second reason is that the above concession was granted on the ground that it was of short duration. The third reason is that the context has radically changed: the virus has not disappeared but seems to be under control; In these circumstances, extending the retention of certain private data undermines the previously adopted balance and the commitments made to healthcare professionals, as Mr Hetzel has just pointed out. The fourth reason is that the implementation of the provisions concerned is partly unknown since their application will be defined by decree. The last reason is the most serious, it seems to me, even if it does not directly concern the present text, but the application StopCovid: Gaëtan Sonient, a French cryptographic researcher from the Institut national de recherche en informatique et en automatique, discovered and revealed that all the contacts crossed during the last fourteen days had been sent to the central server hosting the data relating to StopCovid. However, Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, said that data are collected only if two people cross over for a certain period of time and at a close distance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u520	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u521	I'm finishing, Mr. President. We would not only like clarification on this matter but also abrogate this mechanism, as I believe there is a breach of trust there; However, if there is a breach of confidence in the StopCovid application, this may also be the case with respect to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u522	Mr Christophe Naegelen's amendment No 24 is being defended. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u523	We believe that the extension of the retention period of the data collected is not an anomalous decision. On the other hand, given the revelations that Mr Ménard has just reminded us, it seems to us that caution is necessary. Moreover, it is quite tasty that it is an INRIA researcher, an organization that has developed the StopCovid application, who has revealed that the data are collected all azimuts and stored in a central server, even if the interaction takes place more than 1 metre away and for less than 15 minutes. That is not exactly what we were sold, ladies and gentlemen! If the situation may justify taking risks or even playing the sorcerer apprentices, it does not take too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u524	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u525	We are at risk of a ubiquitous situation: not only will the StopCovid application have had no health interest, but it will also have exposed our fellow citizens considerably from the point of view of their privacy. We propose, as a matter of caution, the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u526	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u527	As soon as we considered the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions, we called for free masks and tests, not the establishment of a generalized monitoring and tracking society. But this text, like the previous text, does not take this into account. On the contrary, Article 2 provides for an extension of the retention period of data collected as part of the information systems used to combat the epidemic. In detail, it allows, as has been said, to extend the retention period of certain data beyond three months, within a period of six months. We have already alerted on this point, recalling that accepting the creation of this type of file is equivalent to opening a Pandora box. With article 2, we take one more step on the slippery slope of the commodification of data collected on the Health Data Hub. Moreover, the report of the Council of Ministers of 10 June states that the data collected by StopCovid are excluded from this extension. What guarantees do we have? It should be noted that StopCovid was activated by only 2% of the population, at a monthly cost of around 100,000 euros, from the state budget. Moreover, the host of the application is a subsidiary of the Dassault group, and the Anticor association has alarmed at this situation with the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, fearing a risk of overbilling, due to the absence of a public procurement. More recently, an INRIA researcher has discovered that the application collects the identifiers of anyone who crosses their user. Last, and not least, opposition: that of the Order of Physicians, which is absolutely opposed to the extension of data retention. Time inexorably exposes your accumulated lies, minister; Here's one more! For several weeks, you have made promises, with your hand on your heart, that this would not happen. The facts prove the opposite: all you promise is a lie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u528	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u529	I would like to add a few comments to my statement on the article. The ink of the law of 11 May 2020 is barely dry that we are already moving on. This is not an anomalous article since its drafting is directly inspired by last Wednesday's Council of Ministers – although article 2 submitted by the Government has been modified and modulated, on the merits, it does not change the situation. This shows how long the Government intends to give to its commitments: when it says that it is committed to the future, in this case, it is valid from 11 May last to today! All this does not leave us concerned about other issues. In addition, I would like to refer in my turn to the article published by Mediapart and taken up by Le Monde, according to which an INRIA researcher discovered that the StopCovid device is far more intrusive than announced, especially here by Secretary of State Cédric O, with his hand on his heart. Not only is this device far more intrusive than announced, whatever it has been said, but it would also require a longer retention period! It's hardly understandable. The rapporteur understood that there was a difficulty. She therefore tabled an amendment to exclude certain health data from the device. " Vigilance," said the Constitutional Council; Yet, in his opinion of 11 May last – very recently, therefore – he says in substance: be fearless; Article 2 is completely rewritten and distinguishes between anonymised data, the identification of which is irreversibly deleted, and pseudonymized data. Of which act. Except that, by definition, pseudonymized data are not anonymized data. This means that the operation is reversible: one can, with pseudonymized data, through certain processes, find the identity of the persons concerned;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u530	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u531	... it means that anonymity is not guaranteed, that the data of an individual, useful and used, can be fully linked to his or her identity, which is a veritable nonsense and an unconstitutional measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u532	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u533	It is also intended to delete Article 2. The preservation of health data, I repeat, poses a serious problem of confidentiality and clearly undermines the privacy of the French – the above-mentioned World article on the StopCovid application provides a new demonstration of this. Many protests have already taken place among them, who are increasingly concerned about the use of data recovered due to the health crisis. They were to be destroyed; Now they'll be preserved. In previous debates on this subject, we have heard that their conservation must be strictly proportionate to the duration of the crisis. Clearly, however, it seems to be ending, rendering null any argument in favour of an extension of the duration of their storage. It is therefore inadequate, in addition to being dangerous, given the use that can be made of it. Furthermore, the third paragraph of Article 11 I of Law No 2020-546 of 11 May 2020, after which Article 2 of this text is to be inserted, states: "Personal data collected by these information systems for these purposes may not be retained after three months after their collection. Why stop a rule in the first sentence of the paragraph if it is to transgress it from the second? Furthermore, the implementation of such an extension remains highly unclear, since only the Council of State will decide on the purposes of data processing. The article does not mention any date or duration, creating alarming legal uncertainty and excluding Parliament from any effective control of the method used, which is strictly harmful to the balance of our institutions. Finally, with regard to the method used, the inclusion of emergency measures in the common law is becoming a matter of great concern. We know that upon the expiry of this new deadline, a so-called new ground will once again justify the extension of the retention of data, thus transposing measures which are supposed to be exceptional into the common law. This article poses a problem; it must be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u534	[[Brouhahaha]] Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 62. Please, ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u535	Everyone's attention is indeed necessary. I will be brief, as several speakers have already put forward arguments for the deletion of Article 2. Mr. Gosselin was particularly brilliant in the definition of the terms of the article as well as in the distinction between pseudonymization and anonymization of data. We have reached an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee. Going back is a form of denial of parliamentarism. Moreover, the personal data referred to here are health data, therefore sensitive data, protected by two pieces of legislation: the 1978 computer law and freedoms and the GDPR – the general regulation on data protection – which we voted to transpose into this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u536	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u537	In order to be sure not to make an error, I will read a provision: "Personal data must be kept [...] for a period not exceeding that necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u538	That is why the measure proposed by the Government is in conformity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u539	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group believes that compliance with the objectives is not respected. There's an excess of...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u540	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u541	... which undermines our individual freedoms. That is why we are presenting this amendment, aimed at deleting Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u542	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u543	This is the last amendment to delete the article. For my part, I do not believe in this technical solution, this start-up, this "novtechnique".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u544	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u545	As if the technique, in our world, was going to fix everything. In general, the technique does not regulate anything; It creates new problems. Many other examples could be cited: in the 1960s, it was believed that chemicals should be spread in crops to kill weeds, and a pesticide was invented for each plant that was not wanted; Now we can see the damage they are causing. Thus, technology cannot solve certain human problems, including the pandemic we are living in. To believe the opposite is to show great naivety, and this may lead us, in the end, to the society described by Aldous Huxley in which we are tracked. For my part, having voted against the implementation of the StopCovid application, it goes without saying that I am opposed to Article 2. We learned from the press that it would store much more information than announced. I therefore advise our fellow citizens to disable the Bluetooth function of their device: read will be quieter!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u546	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u547	The committee discussed this subject at length and amended Article 2 widely. It considered that the identifying data could only be retained for a period of three months after collection, in accordance with the choice made in CMP. On the other hand, it considered that pseudonymized personal crater data could be retained for six months after the end of the state of emergency once they were used solely for research purposes. If we adopt the amendments and therefore delete the article, we would deprive ourselves of the means to know a little about the virus and how it spreads, even though the data are collected with the consent of people and are not identifiable. In committee, the argument was raised that the data would be pseudonymized and not anonymized, thus allowing identification if certain security was not ensured; I made a commitment, Mr. Gosselin, to give you some insight into this. pseudonymization is the most common mechanism for research: data from the national health data system are pseudonymized. This does not mean that there is no risk and that no control is required. For this reason, the Law of 11 May 2020 extending the state of emergency and supplementing its provisions provides that the data used for epidemiological surveillance and research could be collected subject to the deletion of the names of persons, their registration number in the national register of identification of natural persons and their address. This is also the reason for the establishment of the Liaison Committee. CNIL is also very involved in this matter. I will conclude by stressing that no information system dealing with personal data presents any risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u548	We have to minimize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u549	We even have to give up such a system, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u550	I am on this point entirely in agreement with you, and pretending otherwise would be counterproductive. But we must decide a fundamental question by voting on this article: do we want France to be able to carry out research on this virus in due course?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u551	It's a form of blackmail!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u552	Yes! By giving money to the CNRS!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u553	Do we consider, yes or no, that the collection of the consent of persons, the recognition of a right of opposition and of erasure for their benefit, pseudonymization, the control of the CNIL and of Parliament, and a period of retention not exceeding January 2021, constitute a sufficiently protective set of guarantees for the persons concerned? That is the question we must answer. For my part, I believe that the limitation to the purpose of research and epidemiological surveillance, accompanied by the guarantees I have recalled, greatly secures the drafting of Article 2...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u554	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u555	The article is indicative of these guarantees!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u556	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... and achieves the delicate balance between the public interest and the protection of the privacy of the persons concerned. Therefore, my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u557	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u558	Mr Molac, Mr Saulignac, Mr Prud'homme, Mrs Thill and others, you made the link in your speech between StopCovid and Article 2. I am tempted to ask if you would be prepared to withdraw your amendment if StopCovid was not part of the information systems whose data are collected. Please be aware that StopCovid is not covered by Article 2 for two good reasons: it is not one of the intended applications, namely SIDEP and Contact Covid; data collection ensures anonymity from one end to the next.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u559	I'd be you, I wouldn't start on this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u560	However, in order to pseudonymize data, they should not already be anonymous. On the basis of my explanations, at least four amendments should therefore be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u561	There's still a few left.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u562	I still have a few arguments, too. I haven't finished yet. You were one of those, Mr. Gosselin, who wanted to make coronavirus a reportable disease, if I'm not mistaken. However, for notifiable diseases, data storage can last up to twenty-five years – twenty-five years for tuberculosis, several years for dengue and chikungunya. When considering the extension of the state of emergency, I asked you, in the form of teasing, to table a bill to remove all databases of chronic diseases or notifiable infectious diseases. If the four-month storage of pseudonymized data on a viral disease that has caused nearly 30,000 deaths in our country scares you, what about the 25-year retention of data on diseases like tuberculosis? I was bringing you up; I would obviously be against such a bill. It was just a reminder that non-anonymized data related to covid-19, as a notifiable disease, could be stored for 25 years. That is no choice we have made. [[Rites and exclamations on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] In response to the many comments on the CMP, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Government does not participate in the CMP. Unless we ignore Parliament's respect, we cannot commit ourselves to it, and that is quite normal. I wasn't on the phone with the CMP! However, the Government had heard the remarks of parliamentarians. In CMP, you discussed the retention of nominative data and not pseudonymized data. It is therefore not a negation of the respectable work of parliamentarians within the framework of the CMP, unless it is considered that "MB72" has the same identification value as Marie Balache living in the Sarthe. For a moment, I put the doctor's clothes in order to tell you that not a single research protocol is based on pseudonymized data. This is the life of clinical research! For coronavirus, we should introduce rules that do not apply to any disease or research protocol, and disarm – without falling into provocation, because I know that some want to disarm the police – caregivers and epidemiologists! We need the data! Let's imagine that, by the greatest of misfortunes, in September, the epidemic starts again, because we are not sure on the contrary: I should tell epidemiologists, those who have been breaking their heads for months to make statistics, to know where we are on the curve, so that we adapt our arsenal and adopt the right answers: "Sorry, I no longer have the data,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u563	Oops!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u564	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... everything was thrown away; I am unable to know the number of positive cases in a particular commune or the number of cases contacted in such departuremen. Sorry, parliamentarians did not want to keep pseudonymized, non-identifiable data for four months; We lost everything. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who are about to vote in favour of the amendments, I am waiting for trials in unrepair and amateurism in the event of an epidemic recovery. Take your responsibilities! Vote for the deletion amendments, but – I would like to emphasize the point – do not come and tell us then that you are helping the Government, the health care providers, the epidemiologists, the researchers in this country to fight effectively against the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u565	You've been telling us this since the beginning of the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u566	Take your responsibilities, but don't sue in four or six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u567	This isn't a trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u568	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think I have answered the substantive questions. I would remind you that the data will be deleted. They are pseudonymized three months after being collected. It is not uninteresting to know that people have been infected in Sarcelles at some point. This is really useful for researchers and epidemiologists; It is not for the Minister of Health or the Prime Minister. This does not lead to any restriction of freedoms. We are not in a world of all control; We could have this debate, but in this case, let's talk about GAFA – the digital giants – and all the apps on your phones. Let us be honest, let us look at the situation as it is: it is only a question of health security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u569	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u570	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, I listened carefully, and there is one argument that you have not disassembled. We need to put things in context. Physicians fed databases that followed specific data retention rules. But you are breaking the rules that were announced. This is a major breach of trust with doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u571	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u572	The bigger it is...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u573	When the Minister of Solidarity and Health, a doctor in addition, establishes a mechanism before denying the rules that governed it, it is a major problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u574	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u575	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is no longer the minister but the politician who speaks! You're forgetting the public interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u576	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u577	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You forget that you cannot proceed in this way on such a subject. The Order of Physicians warned you, at the beginning of the week, against what it considers to be a major breakup! Are you assuming such a break with the general practitioners of this country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u578	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u579	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u580	I thank Mr Hetzel for recalling that the Order of Physicians opposes this article, as I did in defending my deletion amendment. Minister, we are not students to whom you give a lecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u581	That's pretty much it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u582	On StopCovid as on the rest, I've already mentioned the Health Data Hub, but you're making promises, hand-on-heart, that break out a few days or weeks later. You claim that the StopCovid app is not concerned, but in a few weeks you will tell us that it is. I want proof that the data should not be collected in the absence of prolonged contact for more than 15 minutes. However, it turns out that all contacts are entered in the database. Everyone, including the College of Physicians, blames you for telling balvenes. Madam rapporteur, stop your verse on research, please! My arms are falling! Professor Bruno Canard, CNRS research director at the University of Aix-Marseille, who was working on SARS, was deprived of state subsidies in 2013; In 2020, we find that we should have given public money to research on this coronavirus because it would have been useful to us. Please choose your arguments better; You're overdoing it and it's not credible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u583	I have before me two amendments, Nos 67 and 63, which can be presented together. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u584	Amendment No 67 aims to further shorten the retention period by proposing two months instead of three, which would be a reasonable limit. Amendment No 63 seeks to limit the data collected, which are sensitive, to those "strictly necessary for the application of the provisions of this Article".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u585	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u586	Interested parties must have the opportunity to exercise at any time their right to erasure and their right of opposition, which are recognized both by the GDPR and by the Decree of 12 May 2020 on information systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u587	I call Mr Christophe Naegelen to support Amendment No. 69, which deletes Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u588	This amendment, which I support on behalf of my colleague Nicole Sanquer, Member of Parliament for French Polynesia, aims to criticise Article 3 both in substance and in form. First, this article was introduced by amendment, without the involvement of all Pacific parliamentarians. Secondly, this method echoes the provisions on compensation for the victims of nuclear tests introduced in a bill that is not directly related to this issue, which my colleague discovered on the very day of its publication. The High Commissioner of the Republic has competence in matters of isolation and quaterzaine in French Polynesia. However, the cost of these measures, which amounts to EUR 3100 per four-year period and per person, is the responsibility of the country. If the competence is that of the State, it is the responsibility of the State to bear the financial burden. Thirdly, the mechanism provided for in Article 3 would have been satisfied had the High Commissioner exercised his review of legality, as it was legitimate to expect. When the Assembly of French Polynesia adopted the country law on the prevention and management of serious health threats, thus granting the French Polynesian government the right to enact measures restricting freedoms, the High Commissioner could have raised the conflict of jurisdiction by carrying out his review of legality on the basis of article 14 of the organic law on the autonomy status of French Polynesia. As you will have understood, Madam Minister, this amendment is intended to criticise the way in which the mechanism provided for in Article 3 is presented, as well as the conflict of jurisdiction between the State and the country in the management of the health crisis. Finally, I would like to point out that this amendment is not contradictory to those of my Caledonian colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u589	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u590	...that I will have to support on their behalf : Nicole Sanquer adheres to it. These tend to affirm the competence of local health authorities in the isolation and management of quaterzaines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u591	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u592	The Council of State, in its opinion on the preliminary draft law, considers: "While New Caledonia and French Polynesia have competence in the field of health, the measures created by the draft law relate to the guarantee of public freedoms which fall within the competence of the State". On this basis, I believe that the competence of the high commissioners in these communities is justified. That is why I will give an opinion against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u593	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u594	It should be recalled that, since the beginning of the crisis and the management of the pandemic, the work done in New Caledonia and Polynesia, in concert between the High Commissioners and Governments, has made it possible to adapt the measures taken at the national level, respecting the competences of each individual. In the present case, Article 3 provides for a link between the regulation of public freedoms, which falls within the competence of the State, and that of health, which is the responsibility of the country. Thus, whether in New Caledonia or Polynesia, the high commissioners, after consulting the health authorities, have the opportunity to take certain decisions. I note that the aim of Nicole Sanquer's amendment is contrary to that of Philippe Dunoyer's amendment, which we shall be considering later: the first amendment tends to confer all the powers on the State, when the second is intended to grant them in full to the governments of the Pacific communities. As far as we are concerned, our position is to respect each other's skills. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u595	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u596	I hear the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister. However, one element is essential to me in the argument I put forward on behalf of Nicole Sanquer: the Pacific Members were not involved when you tabled the amendment that gave rise to Article 3. I think that would have been the least of all; Given the somewhat specific geographical context, you could have had the delicacy – the term seems to me to be appropriate – to associate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u597	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u598	This amendment, which I defend on behalf of my colleagues Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, aims to rewrite Article 3 so that it takes better account of the articulation of powers in the field of public health and health control at the borders, in these territories which have so far been rather spared by the epidemic. To this end, it is proposed that local authorities be given the power to make the necessary arrangements in place of the High Commissioner. New Caledonia and French Polynesia would thus be able to take more stringent measures than those provided for in the Code of Public Health with regard to the duration of quarantine, its extension and the place where it is carried out. As you said yourself, Madam Minister, French Polynesia and New Caledonia are specific territories that have not been affected in the same way as metropolitan France. It would therefore be expedient to entrust them with such decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u599	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u600	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u601	It is unfavourable, for the same reasons as on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u602	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u603	I'll say two things. First, since the beginning of the crisis, the High Commissioners have been working with the governments of the Pacific communities, as well as with the various competent bodies. I think it is necessary to recall this, especially since, so far, it has worked well. Secondly, with regard to your remark that parliamentarians would not have been involved in drafting the text, I do not want to suggest that we would not have had regular contact with them. In this case, if we have not done so, it is because we have exactly the same provisions as those contained in the Emergency Act of 23 March 2020. There were therefore no new negotiations and exchanges to be held; We are in the continuity of what we have done since the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u604	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u605	I am very pleased that you are paralleling the emergency law and that you are saying that you have taken exactly the provisions that were in it. This proves well that we are in a continuity that does not have to be: it would have agreed either to maintain the state of emergency or to return to normal functioning. In your words, you show that the Government is trying to introduce a third way, by prolonging the state of emergency but without naming it as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u606	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You didn't understand everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u607	Amendment No 78, as corrected by Mrs Marie Guévenoux, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u608	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u609	This is an amendment of consistency with the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u610	As I did not receive a request for an explanation of vote, I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-17-O1239.u611	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion, at second reading, of the proposal for a law to upgrade agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas countries and territories; Discussion of the proposed programming law for the public hospital and EHPADs; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to establish a student income; Discussion of the proposal for the contribution of high incomes and high heritage to the national solidarity effort; Discussion of the proposal to introduce a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to make access to masks free of charge. The meeting is adjourned.
