ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 2832). I would remind you that, in the context of the current crisis, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of our sittings. The eight groups are represented, in addition to their chairman or representative, by only two Members. The vote on the whole text will be by show of hands, with each chairman or his/her representative holding the votes of his/her entire group, but Members have the opportunity to make known to their group or to the service of the sitting that they wish to vote differently. Non-attached Members also have the opportunity to communicate their voting positions on the whole to the service of the sitting. Speakers speak from their bench and not from the rostrum. I invite them not to put their hands on the microphone – even though I know it's not always obvious. It will be cleaned after each use, but each speaker is asked to use a different microphone. Of course, the barrier measures we all know must be respected; In particular, the discharges of the Chamber will be staggered. The Chamber has been disinfected: it is cleaned before and after each sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u2	The rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u3	I would like to commend the spirit of responsibility that led the Joint Joint Committee. It met this morning at 11:30 a.m. and we debated successfully for more than two hours. I thank my colleague in the Senate, Alberic de Montgolfier, with whom I had previously discussed at length how to improve this text, which required finding avenues for compromise because we obviously did not agree on everything, and that is quite normal, because this is the way democratic debate is going, even in times of crisis. We have resulted in a joint text which the Joint Joint Committee has adopted. I would also like to thank all those who have made it possible for Members to work under extremely tight conditions in recent hours, particularly the administrators of Division B of the Committee on Finance whose working conditions are difficult, with many sleepless nights – I would like to pay tribute to their efficiency and self-denial. By what were we animated by my counterpart in the Senate and myself? First of all, we were anxious to move quickly because there is a double urgency: the one related to the storm that our country is going through, and the one related to the need to "reload", as the Minister of Action and Public Accounts at first reading, credits that have already been widely consumed. We need to vote on this amending finance bill so that we can continue to apply all the aid measures put in place under the PLFR – amending finance bill – last month. Adopting a text quickly was therefore the number one objective of this CMP – Joint Joint Committee – but it was also a question of finding ways to further strengthen the safety net already put in place by still trying to fill the famous "holes in the racket", necessarily still numerous at this stage. In this regard, I would like to mention four provisions. The first concerns VAT. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we adopted at first reading, already in committee, a reduced VAT rate for the purchase of masks, and, in the sitting, following an amendment by our colleague Christine Pires Beaune, a reduced rate for hydro-alcoholic gels. The Senate has proposed to go even further by extending it to other protective equipment – blouses, overblouses, charlottes. I believe that it is in the logic of what we adopted ourselves; We have therefore decided to retain this provision in our common text. The second concerns the improvement of parliamentary control. You know I care. The Monitoring Committee, which we adopted at first reading on a proposal from the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, will be strengthened by increasing its prerogatives, starting with the extension of its area of control so that the control measures can adapt to the evolution of the measures themselves. The committee thus takes on the weight it deserves. Note also the strengthening of the information that the Government will have to transmit to Parliament as part of the equity investments in the trust account "State financial contributions". This was the subject of an important debate: from now on, the chairmen of the Finance Committees and the general rapporteurs will be informed ex ante, an important clarification, of these so-called strategic investments as soon as they exceed one billion euros. The third provision concerns the generosity that senators had the firm will to encourage. We share the ambition to give more room to solidarity in the framework under development, and we have found common ground. The so-called Coluche tax provision will be extended during the period of the state of emergency – with a sunset clause at the end of the year because it is important to limit this measure over time: the ceiling on donations allowing for a tax reduction increases from 537 to 1000 euros. Finally, the work had to be valued. At first reading, we discussed the deplorable use of overtime, which is the subject of de-socialisation and de-socialisation. I had opposed it then. A common ground has been found on an increase in the ceiling, i.e. 7,500 euros, which is also restricted here to the period of the state of emergency, which I think is understandable. These are the main provisions proposed by the Joint Joint Committee, which make some difference to the text we voted on at first reading. However, the philosophy remains the same: to move quickly, to go strong, to protect all businesses, all our citizens and all jobs. That is the object of this urgent text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u5	A few words to congratulate me, on behalf of the Government, on the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee between the representatives of your assembly and the representatives of the Senate. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this amending finance bill is a contingency plan complementary to the first amending finance law passed a few weeks ago only to respond to a crisis of unprecedented magnitude, both in its budgetary effects and in its consequences for society as a whole. The emergency plan proposed by the Government takes into account the extension of the confinement, with the hope of exiting from it as of mid-May, hence the update of the macroeconomic figures it had submitted to you during the first PLFR for 2020. Thus, the growth assumption used for 2020 increases from minus 1% to minus 8%. The depth of the crisis and the decline in activity imply a response to the level that will have consequences on the budget: the general government deficit could reach 9.1% of GDP, two points higher than in 2009, the year of the last major systemic crisis we have experienced, and the public debt could reach 115 %, 20 points higher than at the time. The strength of state support will result in a budget deficit that will almost double compared to the original finance law, reaching EUR 185 billion instead of the EUR 93 billion originally planned. These unusual figures, which seem dizzying, show massive action to deal with a crisis of exceptional magnitude. You have followed the Government's proposal to strengthen the plan to combat the crisis: with this text, the funds allocated to this plan increase from €45 billion to over €110 billion. Thus, the expenditure mobilized will reach €44 billion to protect employees, maintain their skills, support businesses and preserve our health care system. Among these expenses, in addition to the EUR 8 billion increase in ONDAM – the national target for health insurance expenditure – let me highlight two features of our plan to combat the epidemic and its consequences. First, there is the financing of partial unemployment from 8 billion to almost 27 billion euros, financed two thirds from the state budget and one third from UNEDIC, the National Interprofessional Union for Employment in Industry and Commerce, to preserve the situation of employees. The State-guaranteed UNEDIC borrowing ceiling is increased from €7 billion to €10 billion. Then there is the Solidarity Fund, which is reloaded to the tune of €7 billion, of which €6.25 billion is financed from the State budget. As of 21 April, I would point out that this fund received 1090,000 applications from TPE – very small enterprises – or from self-employed workers, whose turnover has fallen by more than 50%, who request assistance of 1500 euros, a total of 986 million euros. Thanks to the provisions of the PLFR, the most difficult small businesses will be able to obtain up to EUR 8000 totally exempt by combining the various aid measures. We also wanted to mobilise in this PLFR two other instruments: EUR 20 billion are planned to strengthen the state's financial participation in some large companies in difficulty – this will be done in association with Parliament, as the rapporteur pointed out. The Economic and Social Development Fund is being replenished to reach EUR 1 billion All these measures are of course in addition to the arrangements created in the first PLFR for 2020, I am thinking in particular of the loans guaranteed by the State to the tune of EUR 300 billion, which help to relieve the cash flow of companies. The new PLFR also provides that those placed in the safeguard procedure since the beginning of the year will now be eligible for this accompanying and supporting scheme. Government action also requires payment facilities for tax or social maturities. To date, tax carry-overs amount to more than €4 billion, and the carry-over of social deadlines to more than €12 billion. It is therefore more than EUR 16 billion that will reduce the cash flow of the companies concerned. I would add that we are accelerating the repayment of corporate debt to the state in 2020: VAT, research tax credit, competitiveness and employment tax credit, and any other tax credit that can be restored in 2020. Finally, I would point out that the exceptional purchasing power premium for public officials, which I have presented with Gérald Darmanin, the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, for the public service of the State and for the territorial civil service, will be exempt from taxes and social contributions, as well as the sums paid to eligible companies under the solidarity fund. Of course, the Minister of Solidarity and Health will present measures to put the hospital public service under the same regime. I should also like to point out that the discussions between the National Assembly and the Senate have allowed us to deepen the arrangements for the most fragile actors. I'm holding six. You mentioned the first, Mr rapporteur: the least favoured households will receive exceptional aid for a total amount of 880 million euros, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, i.e. 150 euros per beneficiary of the social minimums and 100 euros per child in favour of modest households. Second provision: compensation for employees will be secured through a shift in the partial activity scheme as from 1 May for persons who are currently on leave of employment because of child care or because of a particular vulnerability to the Covid-19. Your House has adopted an extensive amendment to the scheme to the tune of EUR 1.8 billion. You have also indicated, Mr rapporteur, that employees will benefit from an exemption from overtime or overtime paid between 16 March and the end of the state of health emergency, the ceiling being increased to EUR 7500. The third measure I would like to highlight concerns fragile sectors. They will be accompanied more strongly. I am thinking in particular of the EUR 19 million granted to zoological parks, refuges and family circuses for animal care. This measure will also need to be supplemented to support public-friendly equestrian centres, as committed by the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of Sport. At the initiative of your assembly, donors whose tenants are professionals, who we have invited to give up the rents that were due to them, will be able to deduct the said amounts from their taxable income. The Government highlighted this initiative and clearly supported it. As for the State-guaranteed loan scheme, it may extend to intermediary enterprises in participative financing. Finally, I should like to point out that the production and acquisition of health protection measures have been facilitated both by budgetary measures to support investment in machinery for the production of materials used in the manufacture of protective equipment, and by tax measures to reduce the VAT rate to 5.5% for hydro-alcoholic gels, masks and other protective equipment. In addition, the CMP has identified three other notable measures: one in support of rural areas, with an increase of EUR 8 million in the elected local allocation – DPEL; another in support of the voluntary sector since communities will be able to decide to maintain some of their grants; Finally, a third in support of solidarity, since, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, the ceiling on donations allocated to the supply of food and basic necessities giving rise to a tax advantage will increase from just over EUR 500 to EUR 1000. This is also part of the progress made through the parliamentary debate. [[The rapporteur applauds]] I conclude by thanking you again and assure you that, thanks to the adoption of this PLFR, the State will be present to all. We will continue to work in this direction. I know that many of you are very attentive to the follow-up to future sectoral plans, in particular the possible decisions to cancel the charges that are now postponed. The debates, both here and in the Senate, have shown the seriousness of this issue. I believe that, as you did this morning in the CMP, we conducted together in this House, and then in the Senate, extremely useful work to help us and our fellow citizens cope with this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u6	The President of the Joint Joint Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u7	I am pleased that the work of the CMP has been successful. I congratulate the members of the two Finance Committees, as well as the CMP rapporteurs for the Senate and the National Assembly, who have worked with their teams under conditions made difficult by the short time available to them. I see it as a translation of the good will that prevails on both sides: everyone wants the plan to support the economy to succeed. I will mention several reasons for satisfaction, but also a few questions. Everyone understands, first of all, that the second PLFR for 2020 contains, in reality, elements that will appear in the third PLFR for 2020. The debates have clearly shown this. The text also contains elements that need to be corrected. This is true, on a macroeconomic scale, of the forecasts concerning the level of recession: the figures are dizzying. We cannot get used to it – we have no right to it. As the centennial crises become ten years old, we will have to react and try to work differently when the time comes. This PLFR also accuses, I believe, several sub-budgetings – although the forecasting exercise is of course difficult. I am of course thinking of the cost of partial unemployment, which Mr Charles de Courson has mentioned on several occasions, but also of other points on which I do not have time to expand. As regards the reasons for satisfaction, it is good, first of all, that the EUR 20 billion which will be released to strengthen the own funds of companies should be discussed, or at least informed in Parliament, in accordance with the necessary confidentiality conditions. The decision on overtime is also a good thing. As we announced – even if I didn't think this decision would take place so quickly – the income tax exemption limit for overtime was increased from 5000 to 7,500 euros per year, which seems reasonable to me. The raising of the ceiling on donations eligible for a tax advantage is also a step forward, as is the setting up of the monitoring committee and the intensification of the pace at which statistics will be transmitted to it. This body will be important, as it will bring together all parties and verify that the measures voted on will actually be implemented on the ground. Similarly, the extension of the participatory loan scheme for small businesses is fundamental. A few questions remain. The main issue raised in the course of the debate, which was the subject of an amendment adopted in the Senate but not accepted by the CMP, is when you will cancel the social and tax charges that you have just postponed. You'll have to make those cancellations. I don't know if you'll do it up to 20 or 30 billion euros, but you won't be able to ask companies, when they will be – we all hope – in full recovery, paying both the expenses of the moment and those of the past. These cancellations will probably be part of the recovery plan, but I think we should have played cards on the table on this point: it was a key condition for the visibility and readability of the budget, and a measure that would reassure businesses. You didn't want to, but you will. We will soon have to discuss the reduction and cancellation of tax and social charges. Then I am thinking of the changing role of insurers, of which we have talked a lot and about which we share the same view. This will have to be reflected, in due course, in the creation of new mechanisms to respond to the current period as well as to the coming one. I am also thinking of the question of rents: I hope that the measure voted, i.e. the inclusion of debt abandonment in the calculation of corporate tax, will meet the ambition – which I share – of the Minister of Economy and Finance, who hopes that large land will not receive the rents usually paid by professionals in these times of crisis. Finally, a final question relates to the use of the very considerable savings surpluses that have been created. As French people are confined, they do not consume, even though with the exception of the liberal professions and some traders, many of them – employees, pensioners, civil servants, so many large battalions – have not suffered any significant loss of income. How can we transform this savings and use it usefully and efficiently to accompany the recovery and, above all, accelerate the pace of growth – because growth will return? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to ensure good access to the devices. As MPs, we get a lot of rides. We will discuss this in the follow-up committee, but I do not believe in the figures put forward by Bruno Le Maire. When the latter claims that only 5% of the government-guaranteed loan applications – PGE – are refused, I think he relays the statistics that was sent to him, but that this percentage is not fair. I hope I'm wrong. The very basis of this figure would probably be worth discussing. All the measures adopted go in the right direction and are up to the answer to be given to support the economy, but their success also depends on the behaviour – bureaucratic or not, tatillon or not – of those who will instruct the demands. Access to support schemes must not be a race of obstacles for those who can claim it, otherwise the economy will find it difficult to restart. I urge the Government and its administration to ensure this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u8	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u9	The pandemic reveals every day a little more the overwhelming responsibility of our economic model, the weight of finance and the logics of profits that flourished on the exploitation of people and the planet. We have been very alone in recent years to warn, along with a few others, about the dehumanization of society, the ecological risks or the breakdown of our public services, especially that of health. Today, everyone goes out of their own way to say that we have to change everything: everyone wants more economic sovereignty, industry and public services, and our caregivers have become heroes. But how do you want to be credible, Secretary of State, after so many changes? So when we have to discuss a contingency plan for the country – with 110 billion euros, excuse for a little – let us be demanding. A plan of 110 billion euros is not a straw! We would have liked to have been able to move a few lines, all together, to respond to the urgency while preparing the next world. A communist – republican – amendment, I dare say, was intended to ban aid to multinationals living in tax havens. Adopted in the Senate, it was ruled out by the CMP! Another policy was to create an insurance tax to raise €1.9 billion to help small businesses. He suffered the same fate. The urgency was to be able to provide assistance to all those who are facing or will be facing poverty. However, no debate has taken place on this issue. We only know that EUR 880 million will be spent on this, out of a total of 110 billion. The urgent need was to help those employed in part-time employment who lost 16% of their wages and tips and premiums, and who suffered price increases while seeing their bills increase. The urgency was also to increase the solidarity fund considerably more so that all the demands of the affected TPEs and SMEs would be met, including those of artisans without employees or companies employing between 11 and 20 people. On the contrary, you have made the choice of being very generous with the big companies, to which you give 20 billion euros of credit, without us knowing which ones will be concerned or under what conditions: this debate, you have just said, will come later. We already know, however, that Luxfer, Famar and other companies will not be part of it. No amendments were accepted to make these aids conditional on the fulfilment of social or environmental objectives – as if the recent demand of MEDEF, which has your ear and allows itself to openly ask you to postpone the ecological transition, was already heard. The urgency was at last to provide more assistance to the ultramarine territories that always denounce the gap between your speeches and the reality of the aid provided. The other one missing from this text is the question of tax revenues, which remain unobtainable as the country is about to spend EUR 110 billion. Who will pay, Secretary of State? It is the debt that will finance the expenditure, you say. But in the end, who will pay the debt? Who will repay the interest? The governor of the Banque de France and the boss of the MEDEF have already replied: this money will have to be repaid, says one; You'll have to work more, says the other one! We call for the European Central Bank to cancel some of the public debts it holds and to finance state investment directly as we are beginning to see in other countries. It is not for the people to pay for the crisis, especially when they are already suffering the dramatic effects! Yes, the European treaties are overtaken by this crisis and contaminated by the virus: it is time to write new ones, respectful of peoples and their sovereignty, which organize cooperation between nations rather than free and undistorted competition! Finally, the mobilization of the whole nation is essential – and not just of those who work. It is time to use finance and capital to participate in the country's recovery, because their reserves are huge! The 358,000 richest families in France have a wealth of 1028 billion euros! Insurance has several tens of billions of euros in reserves. The tax on financial income is capped at 30%. At this very moment, banks continue to squander the interest paid to them by the state: the latter amount to €36 billion in the state budget this year! That's why we proposed to you to define criteria before allowing the use of public money, to restore the ISF – a solidarity tax on wealth – and a fair tax on financial income, to tax speculation and to give more control powers to employees in companies. You rejected everything. Definitely, with you, the next world is not for tomorrow! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the Communist deputies will vote against this amending finance bill. Other Members of the GDR Group, including ultramarine Members, will abstain. I will hand over their names to the service of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u10	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u11	It is with pride that we can meet again this afternoon to put into practice together the agreement reached by the Senate and the National Assembly for the adoption of this second amending finance bill. This result demonstrates once again the spirit of responsibility of the two chambers and the constructive attitude they have taken to respond to an unprecedented crisis in the best possible way. We can only welcome this and hope that this state of mind will continue to prevail in future discussions. This text is a strengthened support plan for our economy. It meets the needs of entrepreneurs of all sizes and their employees. Collectively, National Assembly as Senate, we assume a preference for debt over corporate bankruptcies. That is why it was necessary to strengthen the appropriations allocated to the partial activity scheme, which now benefits more than 10 million employees in the private sector and whose budget is increased, thanks to this PLFR, to EUR 24 billion. As the Minister of Labour pointed out, the partial activity will continue after 11 May, both to avoid dismissals and because the recovery will necessarily be gradual. We will therefore continue to support this mechanism as much as necessary. This PLFR also helps to continue to support TPEs, SMEs and self-employed people in large numbers the solidarity fund – from EUR 1 billion to EUR 7 billion – by strengthening the FDES, the economic and social development fund, to bring it to EUR 1 billion, creating a EUR 500 million repayable advance fund and offering a new financing opportunity with participatory loans. These schemes are reinforced by social and tax carry-overs which will be designed to evolve for certain sectors at great risk and by the State-guaranteed loan. On this last point, I would like to acknowledge the hard work – and paying – provided by the Government to secure a European agreement so that banks no longer include the level of corporate equity in their criteria for the allocation of these loans. In addition to this, there are several new solidarity schemes: financial aid for families in situations of great insecurity, which must be supported on a daily basis; EUR 39 million in food aid announced this morning by Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health; and aid to associations to combat domestic violence and violence against children, which need our support. The €2 billion allocated by the Government in the PLFR provide these needs without the need for a specific budgetary programme. The current crisis is exacerbating, it is true, the inequalities in employment, housing and health – and our collective goal is to leave no one on the roadside. Much progress has been made in the parliamentary debate. I welcome the work of my colleagues in the House, which allowed companies created between 1 February and 15 March to benefit from the solidarity fund from April, to allow donors to give up rent claims without suffering tax damage, and to apply a reduced VAT rate of 5.5% to the hydro-alcoholic gel and protective masks, which has been extended by the Senate to cover individual protections and disinfectants. I also welcome the agreement reached with senators to raise the ceiling on deficalized donations – the so-called Coluche scheme – from €552 to €1000 in 2020, to maintain the subsidies already paid to events and events that will unfortunately be cancelled, and to extend the benefit of the special allocation of local elected representatives to 3500 mayors of all small municipalities to recognize their work on the ground, essential during this crisis. This debate also served as a reminder of our collective commitment to strong commitments. First of all, I would like to mention the fight against tax evasion, on which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance spoke very clearly this morning, referring to the companies which are based in tax havens. Rules exist and limits are set. I also want to reiterate our commitments to the environment. In this regard, I welcome the fact that the Government's substantial assistance to strategic French companies will be accompanied by strengthened monitoring of their environmental commitments in terms of the carbon trajectory, and that the High Council for Climate Affairs will be able to deliver an opinion on the report they will forward to us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The progress of this text is important and useful. We move step by step and act to save our businesses and jobs first before considering medium-term plans. Before the recovery, we have to rescue her. That is why the La République on the move group will vote for this budget, in many historical respects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u12	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u13	We know that because of the epidemic of coronavirus, the months ahead will be very difficult. Therefore, it is vital that the measures taken by this PLFR are implemented as quickly as possible. The French economy and our businesses, first and foremost of which the TPEs and SMEs cannot wait. The review of the €110 billion emergency plan is a necessary step that we can only welcome, as it will help the most vulnerable and most affected by this crisis. Unfortunately, the forecast of this PLFR, which is still too optimistic, is already outdated and the measures are therefore largely insufficient. However, we welcome the positive outcome of the Joint Joint Committee, which makes it possible to move forward without wasting time. It has been facilitated by a likely postponement of certain provisions that have not yet been adopted, which are likely to be implemented in the third PLFR. We therefore welcome the progress achieved thanks to the majority LR of the Senate – I will mention the challenges of working overtime, with an annual ceiling of EUR 7500, the extension of the reduced VAT rate to all personal protective equipment, the deflation of the amount of donations in kind, the increase in the ceilings for the defiance of public and private sponsorship for food aid, the creation of participatory loans, with a more comprehensive scheme to cover companies not covered by the State-guaranteed loan – PGE –, the possibility of maintaining community subsidies to cancelled festivals and the information of Parliament on all operations of more than EUR 1 billion in State participation. The Republicans have already expressed their support for this PLFR and are reiterating it today, but we also recall our observations: while the effort granted by the Government is undeniable and commendable, we believe first that we need to go further, secondly that we need to monitor the implementation of these measures and thirdly that the time is now to prepare for economic definity. First of all, therefore, we need to go further. For weeks we have been calling for the cancellation of social and tax charges for the most difficult SMEs and an exemption from the audiovisual fee for hotels, restaurants and cafes. As the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out a few moments ago, you will probably have to come to the cancellation of charges, which is absolutely indispensable. This is due to the survival of a very large number of local businesses and businesses. We wanted an increase of EUR 2 billion in the solidarity fund's appropriations and an extension of its eligibility conditions. How can we understand, for example, that, because its manager receives a pension of 1000 euros, a company cannot receive the 1500 euros from the solidarity fund that are intended to cover its fixed expenses? It really has to be that, as you said, no one is forgotten. Some sectors, such as biofuel or horticulture, and others, need specific support measures. We regret that this PFLR2 does not act on these devices and in any case wish that the PFLR3 retain them. Secondly, and this is my second point, the Government's task of monitoring action must be fully exercised, for now, beyond commitments, actions must follow. Moreover, who is better able than we, Members of Parliament, in contact with businesses and people in our territories, to bring up the difficulties, the suggestions and what we call the "holes in the snowshoe"? In order to save our businesses, the implementation, in the best possible conditions and as soon as possible, of the measures voted on is imperative. The Government should also welcome our willingness to monitor and ensure that all are executed properly. In certain sectors, such as the equine sector, we have heard the commitments of the Government, which you have also recalled, Mr Secretary of State. It is our role to verify on the ground the application of the devices and, if necessary, to give the alert. With regard to new participative loans or repayable advances, which are expected to complement the State-guaranteed loan, we need to ensure that each company can find the credit that solves its current or future cash flow difficulties. I am therefore pleased that a provision adopted at the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance allows us to have weekly, not monthly, dashboards, because our responsiveness and ability to adapt and correct ourselves will depend on the survival of a large number of companies. Finally, the time is also to be prepared after May 11. The Government must submit a plan for economic degradation as soon as possible. The survival of a very large number of companies is at stake. A rapid resumption of activity can protect us from the economic disaster and prevent our economy from falling into a crisis many of which may not recover. This plan must be accompanied by strong measures to reinvigorate trade and distribution activities, as this is the essential condition for restarting our industry, probably partial and progressive. We must also learn from this painful episode now: the management of the crisis at the state level also calls for, in addition to a major plan for simplification and lowering our standards, we to reflect on a real plan for decentralization. The State must also challenge itself. Approximation is not acceptable when so many lives are in danger. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The Chairman of the Committee on Finance also applauds]] Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, even if this PLFR seems to us to be insufficient, all together, united, our duty is to allow France to bounce back and return to the path of growth. Pending the forthcoming third PLFR, in which we wish to see selected some of our proposals that have not been adopted at this stage, the Republicans will vote for this second PLFR 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u14	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u15	Although we have worked very quickly on this text, we have had in-depth discussions, which have highlighted all the difficulties in which our country is plunged. First of all, on behalf of the Members of the MODEM and related groups, I would like to commend the Government and thank it for having been able to take account of the developments following the first PLFR, which we adopted a little less than a month ago. The text before us replenishes the appropriations of the three main schemes, namely partial activity, the solidarity fund and State-guaranteed loans, and widens the scope of their beneficiaries, taking into account the difficulties encountered. That's a very good thing. I am thinking in particular of access to the EMP, which is extended to companies in safeguard or reorganization proceedings, access to the solidarity fund, which is extended to newly created companies, and many other very welcome openings. In addition to the extension of these devices, the text provides for the exemption from the premium announced last week by the President of the Republic and which will enter into force very quickly to reward public officials who are in the front line and who have been heavily mobilized in the management of the crisis related to the Covid-19 coronavirus epidemic. We also welcome the additions made to this text by the National Assembly, such as the reduction of the VAT rate to 5.5 per cent for masks and hydro-alcoholic gel, or the amendment introducing the tax neutralization of debt cancellations, which accompanies the Government's desire to encourage some donors to give up the rents of traders and businesses. Indeed, while the Solidarity Fund allows small businesses to meet their claims, in particular their rent, this amendment and the Government's commitment encourage some creditors to simply abandon their claims in order to defuse businesses and traders. Finally, we welcome the enrichments achieved in the Senate and this morning in the CMP, thanks to the discussion between the two rapporteurs general, which we commend for the work they have done to bring together the proposals of the Assembly and the Senate. I am thinking here of the challenge of working overtime for the period of the crisis, the welcome increase in the ceiling on food donations and the participatory loan scheme they created together. This is also a very good measure, as companies do not only need debt tools: an over-indebted entrepreneur will find it difficult to deal calmly with recovery. Debt abandonment and participative loans are thus fully in line with a strengthening of incentives that will help entrepreneurs to resume their business when the time comes for recovery. Finally, we welcome the amendments to assess public policies. Parliament is honoured to control the Government and the Government has grown. The provisions adopted this morning are absolutely in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – The rapporteur and Mr Charles de Courson also applaud]] In a word, the members of the MODEM and related groups will of course vote for this text and are already preparing to participate in the construction of the next PLFR, which will meet us very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u16	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u17	We are here in the Chamber to finalize the vote on the second amending finance bill for 2020. The Joint Committee allowed an agreement between the Senate majority and that of the National Assembly. So she did it. The Socialist and Related Group voted on this second amending finance bill, as did our fellow senators in the Socialist and Republican Group, and we will again vote on the final version of this bill – not that we agree on all of its points, but because we believe that food, social and economic urgency prevails. And since I'm given five minutes to talk about this second amending finance bill, and knowing that we're going to vote on it, I'm going to talk more about what's wrong than what's going on. First, you must never lie about the numbers. You're talking about 105 billion euros, but that figure includes 40 billion less revenue. In the end, there are 62 billion in fresh money, of which 20 billion are spent on recapitalisations of companies whose state is already a shareholder or on temporary nationalisations. There, however, is a thick silence, which we denounced last week, particularly with Gilles Carrez. We don't know anything. You ask us to vote 20 billion euros we don't know on what. Of course, I welcome the agreement reached in the Senate that allows the presidents and rapporteurs-general to have access to information before the investments are made. However, Senator Claude Raynal had tabled a sub-amendment allowing the special rapporteurs of the Finance Committees to have the same access to information, which was not voted on. For my part, I stick to the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF – which gives the same powers to the special rapporteurs as to the general rapporteur. I would like to inform you, Mr. Secretary of State, that these powers will be exercised the day after the breakdown: as early as May 11, Bercy will be entitled to a small visit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u18	It'll be my pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u19	Maybe we'll have some information before? I know Bercy will say to me that this is not possible upstream, but reread the article of the LOLF, which was so well thought out by our predecessors: it is perfect, and gives real powers to Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u20	You will have our support in this process!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u21	Of the second third of the planned appropriations, that is to say the EUR 24 billion spent on partial activity, the amount voted is, it must be admitted, relatively clear, but several questions remain. First of all, I asked the Minister of Labour yesterday how much money had already been paid out of the 24 billion. Indeed, as we have already said in this House – and no doubt we are all thinking of specific cases – many entrepreneurs paid their employees in March, but were not reimbursed by the State. The minister told us that only 1.5 billion euros had been paid out – out of 24 billion, and the minister said so! Indeed, to date, many business leaders have still not received the repayment for the month of March. Secondly, you corrected in the PLFR, and I am pleased to say so, a point which we have denounced with regard to the daily allowances which parents have to stop to keep their young children. This may not have been well explained, but it has led entrepreneurs to think that they would be reimbursed for all or 90 per cent of the salary, whereas this share was only 50 per cent in accordance with the existing provisioning arrangements. I am pleased that the Government has taken a step backwards because I recall that this measure concerned 1.7 million people. This proves that we are not saying anything but nonsense and that we were right to warn you about it a month ago. As regards the third third, EUR 18.5 billion in support appropriations, I repeat what I said at first reading: support for the health and social emergency accounts for only 2% of this second PLFR. We believe that this is insufficient. Laurence Rossignol had passed in the Senate an amendment to include in the law the allocation of 1.5 billion euros to women and children who were victims of violence. This amount proposed by my colleague did not come out of the hat as it corresponded to the announcement made earlier by Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa. However, the CMP removed this article voted in the Senate. I consider that you acknowledge that Mrs Schiappa's remarks were a matter of communication and were not based on any budgetary reality. Beyond these sums remain many questions, as well as oblivions. What are the eligibility criteria for companies in the sectors targeted by the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, including accommodation and catering, with regard to the conversion to cancellation of the carry-over of contributions? Will other sectors be involved? On this point, clarification is needed. On the other hand, the exceptional help to homes in difficulty is not enough: you forget the students and apprentice fellows, as well as the modest elderly. Finally, the effort for culture is very insufficient in this PLFR, despite the Senate's contribution to enable local authorities to maintain their subsidies in the event of a festival being cancelled. Agriculture is completely absent, while French farmers make a major contribution to supplying the country with quality products. We will therefore be waiting for the third PLFR which, I imagine, will be proposed in a month, but the Socialist and related group is already voting for it because we consider that glass is rather half full than half empty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u22	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u23	In the face of an exceptional health crisis, which has led to the cessation of economic activity and an unprecedented recession, we are trying to respond quickly and effectively to the emergency by means of this second law of amending finance. The choice made by the Government is clear: not to squeeze on budgetary means in order to support the economic fabric and protect employees. This choice was the only one possible and we fully support it. The emergency plan is now being fed by EUR 110 billion. The role of Parliament, in our view, is twofold: on the one hand, to give the Government the necessary flexibility to adjust the measures already taken and to incur the new expenditure which appears necessary in a very evolving context; On the other hand, thanks to the upsurges, propose improvements to the existing arrangements so that no one, among the most affected, is forgotten by the State. Thus, the threshold for companies to benefit from the solidarity fund according to the criterion of loss of turnover has been reduced from 70 % to 50 %. Similarly, we welcome the creation of a EUR 500 million business advance programme, which will benefit in particular companies that would not have obtained a state-guaranteed loan, or the extension of this loan to companies that were already in difficulty and subject to collective proceedings. The parliamentary debate also made possible some common-sense developments, such as the 5.5% reduction in VAT on masks and hydro-alcoholic gel, as well as on protective equipment and disinfectants, provided for in the text of the Joint Joint Committee. I am also pleased that it has reached an agreement because the bill that we are about to vote on contains many other advances, such as the exemption from income tax and social security contributions from remuneration for overtime worked by employees from the beginning of confinement until the end of the state of health emergency, or the increase of the ceiling below which donations to associations supporting the poorest, including food banks, are deductible from income tax. On the other hand, we regret that the proposal to create an emergency fund against domestic violence, with EUR 1 million, has not been accepted, while calls to 119 have almost doubled since the beginning of confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u25	The contingency plan that we are going to vote on is, however, up to the stakes. However, other projects still have to be carried out and deserve quick answers. First of all, we reiterate our request to cancel the tax and social charges for the most affected companies. Deferral is a good measure, but the exemption will also be necessary as it will restore confidence and visibility to the companies concerned. The crisis will also have a very negative impact on local and regional authorities, which I think we have spoken of very little of, even if it will not be felt in the same way everywhere. Local and regional authorities are at the forefront of the management of the health crisis, showing exceptional creativity and initiative. It will also help to identify the potential for recovery and recovery in the territories. They will therefore have to be given flexibility. Like the order issued this morning, which allows the local tax rate on external advertising to be modified by 2020, they must be able, which was the subject of an amendment by our group at the first reading of the PLFR last Friday, to partially or totally exempt local tax companies. Finally, solidarity between companies must also be total. It is they and their employees who have been able to adapt, here to make masks, there to ensure the continuity of services of general interest, proof that our administration also needs private initiative. We believe that some sectors that do not suffer from the crisis must be able to use their margins to support the most fragile. It is possible to go further in the involvement of insurers who, alas, do not take their part in the operating losses of companies, even if they do not contribute elsewhere to the support fund. Similarly, I am particularly committed to the creation of a fund, which large areas should provide, in favour of small non-food businesses which have had to close their doors at the risk of their activity. This enhanced PLFR offers many tools aimed at mitigating as much as possible the economic crisis as well as the social crisis that is affecting the most modest and families. The IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote unanimously. We know that a new amending budget will probably be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks. Let us hope that today's one will already draw the contours of a recovery and investment plan and that it will also find a strong translation at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u26	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u27	Less than a month after the adoption of a first law on amending finance, we are here to amplify, quite broadly, the emergency measures adopted in the face of the crisis. We have entered into a recession that promises to be a rare violence, with a gross domestic product falling by 8%. Our economy is severely slowed down and some sectors are on a long-term standstill. In the face of this situation, the Government has chosen to resort massively to public spending and borrowing to avoid economic and social collapse. We say this from the outset: the majority of the members of the Freedom and Territory Group will vote for the compromise reached with our fellow senators in the Joint Committee. However, we must regret a lack of overall vision, and ask ourselves: but who, in the end, will pay the mark? Yes, the scale of the health crisis and its socio-economic consequences require a rapid and massive response. But our public deficits are multiplied by four, from €50 billion in initial finance law for 2020 to about €200 billion in amending finance law. Two hundred billion euros! This figure is more telling than the 9.1 percentage points of GDP often mentioned. Returned to each French asset, it represents 7434 euros of additional debt, i.e. 3.3 months of average salary of a Frenchman. That is the reality. I will make a few comments on the distribution of these deficits. The State alone stands at EUR 185 billion. But we would like to draw the Government's attention to that of the social security administrations. Minister Darmanin estimated the deficit for social security agencies at EUR 41 billion. This amount does not take into account the UNEDIC deficit of around 10 billion, which is heavily contributed, since it finances one third of the partial unemployment scheme. According to the breakdown which the Minister has kindly told us, following repeated requests, the deficit of all social security administrations would amount to EUR 50 billion. In view of this deterioration, we urge you to consider a bill to finance the social security correction. We also call for a new law on public finance programming, which was promised, I would remind you, by the end of this month. As for local and regional authorities, they are, to use the term "consecrated", in the front line. The President of the Republic met today with mayors and representatives of associations of mayors; I do not forget, for my part, the departments and regions, which are also heavily mobilized. The impact of the current crisis on local and regional authorities would be EUR 14 billion. Indeed, their surplus, which in the original finance law amounted to 0.2 percentage points of GDP, or just under 5 billion, has become a deficit of 0.4 percentage points of GDP, or 9 billion. The latter will have to be the subject of a dedicated support plan, in line with their commitment, as soon as the next law of amending finance. On many aspects, the Senate has improved the text that we voted on at first reading. Some of the measures taken by the Joint Joint Committee are in the right direction. They sometimes cover small amounts, for example the increase in the local elected budget of EUR 8 million, which our group defended at first reading, alas without success. But sometimes they are also broader measures: I am thinking in particular of the de-socialisation and de-socialisation of overtime, which, in the current context, is a good lever to better pay the highly sought-after employees – with, however, a cap on the amount eligible for €7500. The same applies to the almost doubling of the ceiling of EUR 1000 for the deductibility of food aid grants. The subsidiary participative lending mechanism – up to €50000 for small businesses – supported by the Economic and Social Development Fund is also maintained. I see it as confirmation of the difficulties some companies have in accessing credit despite the State guarantee. We hope that this mechanism will make it possible to remedy this. Let's say a word about the $20 billion you're planning to invest in strategic companies. At the end of the CMP, Parliament is a little better informed, but in this case its powers have not been respected. With regard to the social and environmental conditionality of this participation, a small step has been taken by the Senate. The High Climate Council will give an opinion on the report submitted to Parliament, which will have to assess compliance with the national low-carbon strategy and the objectives of our energy policy. But we remain far from the ecological shift promised by the President of the Republic. The "after day" will wait! We also regret that insurance companies are not further involved, as proposed by two articles adopted in the Senate. As parliamentarians, we asked about the impact of the crisis on their activities. Do they win, do they lose, and in what proportion? Finally, I will address a final point which constitutes a transition between this PLFR and the next one, which we will have to discuss before the end of May. The cost of the partial unemployment scheme remains largely undervalued. I still do not understand why the UNEDIC, which is already in deficit, bears one third of the weight of the EUR 24 billion devoted to it while its Board of Directors has not even met to discuss it. A cost of 8 billion, for an organization whose debt already amounts to 37 billion and will be increased by the end of the year to 50 billion! Not to mention that the amount of the envelope will finally be much higher: it is difficult to give a figure, but it will be at least EUR 30 billion, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out. We will have to come back to this at the next PLFR. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, the Libertés et territoires group will vote mostly for this second amending finance law, but a large minority will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u28	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u29	Our position has not changed: we will vote against this PLFR, as the passage to the Senate has not changed the text in depth. This bill, which sees the state intervene massively in the economy, does not propose any path concerning the "after world" which even the Elysée, it is said, calls for. We cannot re-launch on the same basis the machine that led us into the wall, thinking that we will notify later: this is neither possible nor desirable. We cannot continue with the same productivist logics, with the same capitalist logics. You insist on wanting to offer 20 billion euros to businesses without subjecting this aid to any environmental or social conditions, as if history had taught you nothing. You refuse to discuss the payment of dividends, which are said to be shared by CAC 40 companies at the end of June. You refuse to subject this aid to the condition that you did not dismiss it during the crisis, even though companies had the possibility of resorting to partial unemployment. You refuse to raise partial unemployment to 100 per cent of wages, while many of our fellow citizens cannot afford to lose 20 per cent of their wages – and I am not talking about the loss of bonuses. In this context, one can speak of great distress, of the food crisis itself, as unfortunately shows what is happening in Seine-Saint-Denis where, according to the Prefect, 15 to 20,000 people are at risk of malnutrition. You insist above all on not changing anything and listening to anyone outside your camp, to the point that you have not even let pass the most moderate of the House's amendments aimed at even slightly conditioning this €20 billion gift to businesses. You also rejected the amendments made by senators in that direction. The result? Even companies in tax havens will be able to benefit from these aids, while the Minister Le Maire assured on France Info that this would not be possible. This, therefore, as these companies cheat on the rules of the tax game! Nothing about sharing wealth either. Even the provisional restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth in order to involve the richest of our fellow citizens in the national effort, you have refused it. You also rejected the Senate's amendments to tax the insurance sector a little better. As for the debt, even when it comes to it, you keep closing your eyes. When we propose a concrete solution, the direct redemption of their debt by the European Central Bank to the states and its conversion into perpetual debt, an idea that is of interest to more and more economists – even those who are not expected on this ground, like Alain Minc – with the aim of getting out of the crisis from the top and preventing debt from becoming an austere ball for decades, not only you tell us no, but you even refuse a report that could take stock of the issue. What is, in the end, deeply worrying is that no coherent strategy, no guidelines seem to have been drawn, no health planning, no preparation. You have refused, for example, any concrete project of nationalization or requisitioning of companies by answering us "Don't worry, we will see well. I am concerned that this lack of preparation will continue. Here I have heard Mrs Pannier-Runacher dismiss our repeated requests for the nationalisation of Luxfer, which manufactures oxygen bottles and closed in 2019 on the pretext that France could continue to supply itself to the United Kingdom... Hello relocation and health sovereignty! And I am all the more concerned when I note that at the same time the Government welcomes the order of thousands of respirators from Air Liquide when a survey by France Info shows that this is a model that does not even work in the resuscitation services for the Covid-19. I'm worried when I see the conditions under which deconfination, even partial, is being prepared. For example, for the school, between the Head of State and Mr. Blanquer, the counter-orders follow orders, to the point that it is thought that they might be able to call before giving interviews. As far as the transport sector is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, you were able to see the report broadcast yesterday by France 2 on metro and train lines serving, in particular, the Seine-Saint-Denis, where there are again many passengers who are not protected. Defining doesn't start on May 11th, it has already started for many activities! However, the lack of preparedness in the transport sector could be dramatic and could lead to the revival of an epidemic crisis of even greater magnitude. As regards the supply of masks or tests, as regards the protection of workers due on 11 May, all this impreparation seems to us to be highly anxiogenic. And you now seem to want to rely on the territories, not because of political will but because of your inability to organize anything – that is the impression it gives. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This PLFR is not a reflection of this risky management of the crisis and of the debunking. I would very sincerely like to see the opposite for the country, for its health; But that is not the case, and that is why Members of the La France insoumée group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u30	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u31	I shall put to the vote the whole of the amending finance bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u32	You wish to speak, Mr Secretary of State, for an intervention that will not revive the debate I imagine...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u33	I just want to thank the House for its vote. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the Government wishes to provide information to Parliament. A provision has thus been adopted to inform ex ante the rapporteurs-general and the chairmen of the finance committees of the two chambers on the €20 billion business aid programme. After that, of course, we will be open to debate and I have no doubt that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will take a close look at the matter. And I do not forget the prerogatives of the special rapporteurs recalled by President Rabault. I also answer a question from Mr Carrez: the raising of the UNEDIC ceiling, which we have proposed and which you have adopted, has indeed been the subject of concerted action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u35	Finally, I would like to reassure all those who are concerned that amendments have not been adopted. First of all, this PLFR is not the only instrument to finance the State's action: we must count with the reservations of the original finance bill. Secondly, in the PLFR itself there are appropriations which are not allocated and which will enable the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Ministers with regard to women's rights and the protection of the most precarious. We have the means of our policy thanks to this text and the original finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-23-O1197.u36	Next sitting, Tuesday, 28 April, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Government statement, debate and vote on digital innovations in the fight against the Covid-19. The meeting is adjourned.
