ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mr Gilles Lurton and several of his colleagues to ensure the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child (No. 1160, 3115).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u2	This morning, the Assembly heard the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Gilles Lurton, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u3	I would like to thank all the speakers who have unanimously spoken in favour of this bill, starting with you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. I would like to thank you very much for the words you have spoken to me in your conclusion. You rightly pointed out that this bill was not just a technical or cosmetic measure. The adoption of this text is indeed a sign that we give to the families of our country in favour of a family policy that I call for and for which I have been fighting since the beginning of my first mandate in 2012. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] [[Applause on various benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I would also like to thank my parliamentary group, The Republicans, and its President Damien Abad, for allowing this bill to be defended by placing it on the agenda as part of our group's parliamentary niche. I will have a special thank you for Alain Ramadier, who works with me on these issues in the Committee on Social Affairs and whose convictions in the field of family policy are entirely in line with mine. Like Mrs Nathalie Elimas of the MODEM group, you pointed out in your speech the blows to family policy since 2012, with, among many others, the two-fold decline in the family quotient, the modulation of family allowances according to resources and the decrease in the amount of the early childhood care benefit, while the birth rate of our country has been declining steadily for five years now. I know that Nathalie Elimas also shares my convictions. In a few days' time, dear colleague, you and Stéphane Viry will be producing a report in which I participated as a member of your information mission. For learning about his findings, I can say that they are very much in line with those of my own work. I would also like to thank Pierre Dharréville and Caroline Fiat for their comments. I have to admit that in terms of family policy, we have very often come to an agreement. Dear Caroline, I was very moved by the words you spoke. To Christophe Naegelen, Martine Wonner, Paul Christophe and Marie-Noëlle Battistel, I would like to express my thanks for their position in favour of the text. I would like to reassure Christophe Naegelen of the fate of his amendment concerning the date of payment of the premium and to tell Yannick Favennec Becot that the text, if it does not constitute a major response in the field of family policy, is at least one link, which honours our assembly. Finally, I thank the majority group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u4	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u5	[[Applause on all benches]] ... in the person of Charlotte Lecocq, here, for the evolution that he has made and for the work that we have accomplished together in a constructive and consensual spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u6	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u7	I too welcome the unity of views expressed on the benches of the House. It shows our commitment to our social protection system, and in particular to our family policy system, on which we must continue to work. We see that consensus leads to fine texts – perhaps more easily about isolated elements than in the broader context of a bill to finance social security, which is rather a list of measures. The information mission of which Nathalie Elimas is rapporteur, under the chairmanship of Stéphane Viry, will present her proposals in a few weeks. They will have my full attention and we will continue to work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u8	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u9	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the MODEM group]] Thank you all for our exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u10	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u11	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 4, 6 and 8, as corrected, which are the subject of a sub-amendment, No 9. On the same amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u12	It is important to include in the law the date of payment of the birth premium: in the seventh month of pregnancy. This is the subject of this very simple amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u13	The rapporteur, Mr Gilles Lurton, has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u14	To date, the date of payment of the premium was defined by decree, which allowed a minister from a previous government to have the payment made after the birth of the child. This measure, which had nothing to do with common sense, simply saved EUR 239 million over one year. We need to learn from this episode that occurred in 2015. We therefore want to include in the marble of the law the date of payment of the birth premium in order to prevent this kind of situation from happening again: it is always possible to amend the law, but it is more difficult to refer the matter to Parliament than to make a decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u15	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor to support Amendment No. 8, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u16	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] If the single article of this bill finally notes the return to a payment of the premium at birth before the birth of the child, we hope, as the rapporteur rightly said, that the date of this payment will no longer depend on the hazards linked to a decree and will be included in the marble of the law. I have consistently defended this position – with you, rapporteur – for the past three years; I look forward to a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u17	The Secretary of State has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u18	If I may, Mr President, I shall first give the Government's opinion on Amendments Nos 4, 6 and 8 as corrected. These identical amendments are intended to ensure that the birth premium is paid before the end of the last day of the calendar month following the sixth month of pregnancy or, at the latest, the last day of the seventh month of pregnancy. Understanding your concern to specify explicitly in the law the date of payment of the birth premium, I will therefore issue a favourable opinion. The wording is secure insofar as it is identical to the wording which was fixed by decree before 2015. However, the Government proposes a sub-amendment referring to a decree to fix the date of payment of the premium only in the case of an adoption – where it is already foreseen that the premium will be paid within two months of the child's reception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u19	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u20	Favourable, because my bill concerns only the birth premium, not the adoption premium. In fact, in the case of adoption, there is no question of paying the premium before birth, since the adopted child has already been born.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u21	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 4, 6 and 8, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u22	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 35 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u23	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u24	It aims to put an end to any discussion such as that which we have witnessed in the Chamber about a possible refund of the birth premium in the event of the loss of a child before or immediately after delivery – a tragedy about which we have recently unanimously voted on Mr Guy Bricout's proposal for a law on the death of a child. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, LR, SOC and Agir ens]] To that end, the amendment is intended to ensure in the law that the question of reimbursement, which I considered to be unworthy at the time, is never again put to families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u25	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u26	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u27	Favourable, of course. The death of a child is the most painful event a family can experience. It would be cruel to seek to recover the amount of the premium that had been paid to the bereaved family, especially since, in most cases, that family had already paid for the child, which could make the situation even more cruel for her. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-I, LT, Active ens and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As I said in committee, in my mind – that was the practice until now – the premium is not recovered in the event of the child's death. However, as Mrs Elimas has said, it seems to me good to include this clarification in the marble of the law, so that we do not have to go back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u29	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, IUD-I, LT, Active ens and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Existing regulations already provide for the maintenance of the premium in the event of the child's death. The premium remains payable if the death occurs beyond the sixth month of pregnancy, during which the conditions for opening the premium are verified by the caisses. However, your concern is legitimate and I understand your wish to explicitly secure this point in the law. I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u31	I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 11, which can be discussed jointly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 10 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u32	It is intended to specify the date of entry into force of the Act. Indeed, while the Government's intention is to set this date as soon as possible, we must nevertheless take into account operational constraints and ensure that the family allowance funds will be able to advance the payment of the premium at the time of the coming into force of the law. However, the health crisis has strongly mobilized the information services of the national family allowance fund, which must also carry out other major priority reforms, such as housing subsidies or the establishment of the State maintenance service. [[Charlotte Lecocq and Michèle Peyron applaud]] It is therefore proposed to set the date of entry into force of the law by 31 March 2021, even if we understand the intention of Amendment No 11, which is to set it on 1 January 2021. The date of March 31 is a maximum: however, I will ensure that the entry into force takes place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u33	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u34	The Secretary of State has explained this very well. The date I propose, by 1 January at the latest, avoids unequal treatment between parents whose children were born the same year. Three months apart, that's not much. If we ask them, our administrations will agree to make a small effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u35	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u36	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u37	I would have liked to give an opinion in favour of your amendment, Mr Naegelen. Over the past few weeks, the issue has been the subject of lengthy, very open and constructive discussions with the CNAF, which is even quite satisfied with the action we are going to take. Nevertheless, in 2015, the postponement of the payment of the premium after the child's birth had asked CNAF for 250 days of computer work. Several projects have had to be opened, not only to change the payment date, but also to deal with issues of accounting, payment chains, the impact of the change of date on retakes or changes in registration from one family allowance fund to another. The same work, in the opposite direction, is needed today; You can understand that it takes as much time as it did at the time. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the action of the CAF in a context where the computer services of the family branch are particularly mobilized. They were very much asked during the health crisis to pay the two exceptional aids for the most vulnerable households, while at the same time they had to complete important projects, such as the reform of the method of calculating housing aid, the intermediation of maintenance payments or the daily allowance of the caregiver. [[Charlotte Lecocq and Maud Petit applaud]] At the end of our discussions, we agreed that the March 31 date was the deadline they needed. It is a long way, of course, and I would have preferred the law to apply well before, as soon as it came into force. But sometimes you have to know how to deal; That's what I chose to do in this case. The opinion is therefore in favour of Amendment No 10 and against Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u39	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u40	[[Ms. Michèle Peyron and Ms. Charlotte Lecocq applauded, as did Ms. Maud Petit]] The date was chosen for reasons not budgetary but technical, related to information technology services. The rapporteur was kind enough to remind him. Reforms under development are to be implemented from 1 January. Services should be given time to ensure that the system is fully operational as soon as it is implemented. It is clearly specified in the amendment that the provisions will apply "by 31 March 2021 at the latest". I'll take care of it. You can count on my full commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u41	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u42	We must all welcome the future adoption of the bill by our colleague Gilles Lurton, who is, as we have seen, trans-partisan. Some have been working in this House, since 2012 for Mr Lurton and since 2017 for the little new ones of which I am a member, in order to correct a mistake made by the previous government, which had fixed the payment of the premium two months after birth, which makes no sense because, of course, it is before birth that this money is needed. Nevertheless, it took us three years – and much more for you, Mr.Lurton – to reach our goals. I regret, Madam Secretary of State, that we have not been able to do so before. We have lost three years, which is not normal for a measure that is a matter of common sense. I come to the last two amendments. Our administrations have deployed treasures of ingenuity and creativity during the crisis of the Covid-19. In emergency situations, they know how to act. However, I believe that the payment of this premium is an emergency for families. That is why I would very much have liked to see at least Mr Naegelen's amendment adopted. I regret that this beautiful transparency moment, and the work we have done to achieve it, is tainted by the choice of 31 March, a date which seems somewhat distant to me. I will not go back to the reasons given, which I have understood all the better because they were developed by my colleague, Mr Lurton, whose honesty I know. However, these provisions should have been applicable as soon as the law was passed. We could grant a deadline until January 1, a relevant date since it corresponds to the beginning of the calendar year. I therefore regret, Madam Secretary of State, that you have chosen to wait another three months. I thank Gilles Lurton again for defending this beautiful bill. We'll finally be there! Gilles, thank you for everything. If you've ever been elected this weekend – what I wish you to do –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u43	He will be!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, LR, IDU-I, LT and Active ens]] ... we will miss you very much in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u45	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u46	[[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] After conducting some research, I had learned that the CNAF had indeed needed time in 2015. But I had simply thought that, with this first experience, our administration, which is competent, would know how to proceed and therefore this same work, in the other direction, would be carried out more quickly. I therefore felt it was possible to reduce the deadline a little, for reasons of fairness and consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u47	On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Republican Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u48	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u49	Much has already been said about this very beautiful bill which aims to restore the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child. It is a fair, common-sense, consensus-based measure. It will help families prepare for the arrival of a child and will restore some legal consistency. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LR, MODEM, IUD-I, FI, Active ens and on a few benches of the group LaREM]] Dear Gilles, your commitment, your determination, your involvement today bear fruit. I will take up Caroline Fiat's very kind words this morning and trust that, for many MPs elected in 2017, you are a fine example to follow. It is therefore with great enthusiasm that the Republican Group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u50	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u51	I may paraphrase my colleague Ramadier. We look forward to discussing this bill in substance today, as some of us have been doing for the past three years in the framework of the PLFSS. This is obviously a measure of common sense and social justice, as we all said in the general discussion. This bonus of about 1000 euros will be very useful to families. Since this aid is provided on a means-tested basis, it is intended for the most vulnerable families. It is therefore a very good step that we are about to take, and I welcome it. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LR, UDI-I, Active ens and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, a great emotion is palpable on our benches: dear Gilles, you will remain an example for all of us; I am humbly and dignified in your steps, since I too, with conviction, defend this family policy that is dear to you. Thank you for having accompanied us throughout this year, especially during the work carried out as part of our information mission on family policy, of which you were Vice-President, which you honoured with your presence and especially enriched with your thoughts and common sense. A big thank you to you for everything you've done. I don't know what the result will be on Sunday, but I have a good feeling. On behalf of the MODEM group, thank you and good wind, Gilles!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u52	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u53	Is it useful to repeat what has already been said? On behalf of the IDU and independent Group and in view of the importance of the text, I can only congratulate Gilles Lurton, but also the MODEM Group, which has defended the measure several times,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u54	Three times!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u55	...notably last year. What happens proves that when you really want something, you get to your ends. At heart brave, nothing impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u56	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u57	[[Applause on a few benches of the IDU-I, LR, MODEM and Active ens groups]] The big winners are the future parents. It is they who will thank you, Mr rapporteur, many of them who have difficulty making ends meet, not being able to buy everything that is necessary for their future child. Having the pre-birth bonus will really change their lives. It is for them that you have tabled this bill; I would therefore like to thank you very much for them and my congratulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u58	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] At the risk of repeating what has just been said, on behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group, I would also like to welcome the unanimous approval by this House of a very good text which will benefit, in particular, the most modest families. I would like to thank her rapporteur again. Dear Gilles, as the song says, "hold the bar and hold the wind, rise high"... in Saint-Malo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u60	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u61	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] I was pointed out that, during the general discussion, I forgot to announce my group's vote. Since you were all asking yourself the question, I would say that the La France insoumise group will vote in favour of the bill. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] On the other hand, let us return to Caesar what belongs to Caesar: I thanked the rapporteur a lot, but I did not do the same for the MODEM group, notably Nathalie Elimas, who is working very hard on the subject. When other Members commit this kind of oblivion, it makes me scream, so I had to fix mine. Thanks to them, and thanks to the rapporteur, the measure we have discussed will finally be voted on. (Applause from several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u62	Thank you Caroline!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u63	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u64	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Mr rapporteur, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, thank you very much for making this debate and congratulations possible for the consensus reached, which allows us to correct a mistake collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u66	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u67	All the groups wishing to speak, I could not remain silent. On behalf of the Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group, I thank Gilles Lurton and Nathalie Elimas. By being unanimous,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u68	If only this could happen more often!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u69	...the Assembly demonstrates that we can all together promote a secure family policy in France for all new families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u70	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u71	I, in turn, express the support of my group, act together, to the bill and welcome the great emotion that this social progress and the unanimity that it calls for are creating among us. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] This emotion is also expressed in relation to our rapporteur. Dear Gilles, we saluted your consistency and, I would like to say, your intellectual honesty. I also thank the Government for listening. A birth policy does make sense in our country. I am delighted for all the future beneficiaries of this premium, or rather – since, as you know, I do not like this word – with this aid, by which we offer a good encouragement to our society. Congratulations to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u72	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] On behalf of the La République Group, I also thank Gilles Lurton for opening the debate by tabling his bill. He has defended a measure of support for purchasing power towards families, especially modest ones, and a measure of common sense because it makes sense to this aid, designed to prepare the arrival of the new child. That is why we will support her. I would like to commend the constructive and consensual work we have done together, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u74	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u75	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 47 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 47 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u76	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u77	I'll only say two words. I am very pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, that injustice is being corrected today. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, MODEM, IDU-I, Active ens and LT]] Mr Lurton, I know that we have a few weeks left to take advantage of your presence in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I wish you the best now. Thank you for being there, for being a support; Thank you for your kindness and your experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, MODEM, IDU-I, Active ens and LT]] Before giving you the floor, Mr Lurton, and without prejudging, of course, what the Malouins will decide next Sunday, I join in the unanimous and warm words by which our colleagues welcomed your long-standing parliamentary commitment. In my turn, I express my gratitude, my immense gratitude. You should know that it is always a great pleasure, when I chair a sitting, to know you are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u79	Thank you, Mr President, for the words you have just spoken. Neither do I prejudge the outcome of an election: just as a game is won only at the final whistle, an election is won only when the last ballot is stripped. I will not repeat my thanks to each other at the end of the general discussion. That said, even for a bill that you seem to have mastered perfectly because you have been defending it for a long time, I realize the amount of work it requires, particularly from the entire administration of the House. (Applause from all benches.) The work of the administrators deserves to be commended: in the last few hours, I have been able to measure the number of exchanges that have taken to achieve such a result. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, IDU-I, Active ens, LT and FI groups]] Thank you all once again for your unanimous vote. I now hope that the bill will follow its parliamentary path as quickly as possible so that, on 1 March, the birth premium can be paid before the child is born.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u80	The next item is the debate on the motion for a law by Mr Xavier Breton and others for an emergency ethic (No. 3038, 3120).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u81	Mr Xavier Breton, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u82	We will now look at the bill for an emergency ethic, which I have tabled with several of my colleagues in the Republicans Group. The covid-19 pandemic has been and remains a painful ordeal for all our compatriots. Faced with the perils we have suddenly faced, the crisis has highlighted the values of solidarity, courage and dedication that characterize the mobilization that our compatriots, including caregivers and caregivers, have demonstrated in these difficult moments. This crisis also justified the development of a new legal framework to combat the virus effectively. Parliament adopted the two bills of 23 March and 11 May last creating and extending the state of health emergency, which allow the Government to take exceptional regulatory measures that drastically restrict our rights and freedoms. The derogatory nature, sometimes even liberticide, of certain measures dictated by urgency is not limited to a mere legal controversy. We must collectively reflect on the protection of the principles that underpin our civilization and structure our society. Ethical issues are necessarily at the heart of this reflection. It is precisely because the health emergency could induce or even legitimize all the drifts, that we must preserve our fundamental landmarks. Unfortunately, as we barely emerge from the health crisis, we can only note and deplore the crossing of red lines without genuine ethical questioning beforehand, as if the imperative of health efficiency was enough to sweep away the complexity of our relationship to life and death. The responses of the public authorities have sometimes provoked reactions of incomprehension or even anger on the part of our compatriots, in a particularly anxious climate. A feeling of injustice in the face of the brutal or even inhuman dimension of certain situations has been combined with the suffering caused by the epidemic. I will cite only three examples attesting to the reality of this observation: the inadequate consideration of vulnerable persons; Prolonged isolation of EHPAD residents; modification of the rules governing funeral rites. First, vulnerable persons, with disabilities, with no permanent residence or housing difficulties, were particularly exposed to the consequences of widespread population confinement for almost two months. As pointed out in the progress report issued last May by the Ile-de-France area of ethical reflection, their access to care or accommodation has thus been made more difficult, increasing their physical and psychological suffering without the implementation of solutions adapted to their situation by the public authorities. Second, the decision to place EHPAD residents in total isolation and prolonged isolation raised major ethical issues that were clearly not anticipated. This decision, taken without consultation with the actors on the ground, imposed on residents overnight, imposed dryly on EHPAD staff as well as on families, instantly deprived the dependent elderly of the daily social interactions that give them a reason to live. Despite the gradual introduction of digital palliation, the sudden breakdown of the social bond, not limited in time, has caused or reinforced the psychological distress of our seniors, at the risk of causing a slip syndrome at the fatal end. This example symbolizes the imperative of thorough ethical reflection, in order to understand that the preservation of biological life must not exclude the preservation of the reasons for living of our elders. As Doctor Philippe Mahier, EHPAD coordinator in Montrevel-en-Bresse and Foissiat, in the department of Ain, wrote in an open letter which met with an important echo: "Will you let go those who are our roots, who fought for our freedom, who built our beautiful country, without letting them see their children again? » Finally, thirdly, the fight against the pandemic has justified the adoption of regulatory measures significantly modifying the legal framework of funeral rites. Yet we can all agree that this is a particularly sensitive subject, which affects the intimate sphere of each individual and each family. For several weeks, the bodies of the deceased who were contaminated or probably contaminated with covid-19 were put in beer immediately. Conservation care and mortuary toilets have been prohibited. The holding of funeral ceremonies was strictly and severely limited. All of these restrictions have made it even more difficult for families and relatives to mourn in an already difficult period of crisis. Again, ethical issues seem to have been misjudged, or even deliberately ignored. These and other examples highlight the need for ethical reflection in times of health emergencies. The purpose of this bill is therefore to ensure that these ethical issues are taken into account, drawing in particular on the expertise of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, the CCNE, and regional ethical think tanks. Since its establishment in 1983, the CCNE has been the leading national ethics advisory body. As early as 2009, he had issued a premonitory opinion: "Ethical issues raised by a possible influenza pandemic". He rightly questioned what measures could be taken in such a context, saying: "The issue that the Committee believes is essential is whether the state of emergency caused by an influenza pandemic involves the possibility of putting certain fundamental principles in the background. Should individual freedoms be subordinated to other values more adjusted to the effectiveness of the strategy to combat the health scourge? » These words, written eleven years ago, make sense today. During the crisis, the CCNE issued four opinions, following referrals to the Government or the Scientific Council Covid-19, or on its own initiative. These opinions provided an overview of the various ethical issues from a critical but constructive perspective. The notice published on April 17 thus found the exceptional seriousness of the regulatory measures relating to funeral rites provided for by the decree of April 1. This awareness, although it probably did not meet the deserved echo, helped to move the lines and finally led to the repeal of this decree. At the regional level, regional ethical think tanks, established in 2004, complement the Ethics Network in the Territory. At the direct contact of the field players in the medical and social sector, they constitute places for training, documentation, meetings and interdisciplinary exchanges. As rapporteur, I had the opportunity to hear representatives of the regional areas of Île-de-France and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes; I would like to commend the quality of their work and their unwavering commitment during the crisis. Their proximity role has been essential to safeguard the existence of ethical principles to the test of health emergency. Our bill aims to strengthen the role and influence of the CCNE and regional spaces in times of health emergency. On the one hand, it is a matter of providing for the systematic publication, rather than on the basis of a discretionary referral, of an opinion of the CCNE in the event of a declaration or extension of the state of emergency. On the other hand, the NCCE will prepare an evaluation report to draw lessons from crisis management in terms of ethical questioning, within two months of the end of the state of emergency. Because these are subjects at the heart of the democratic debate, Parliament will be able to take up these issues and debate them in the light of the CCNE's evaluation report. I welcome the constructive climate in which the committee has examined this bill, far exceeding, and that is good news, the traditional divides. The few amendments proposed by the majority group and by our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine, adopted by the committee, made it possible to clarify the wording of the proposed provisions and not to over-rigid decision-making in times of emergency. The committee also chose to refer to a decree the extension of the referral to the CCNE by various parliamentary authorities in the event of a state of health emergency. Initially, the text provided that, in addition to the Speaker of the Assembly and the Speaker of the Senate, the NCCE could be seized by the Speaker of the Parliamentary Groups or by 60 MPs or Senators. I hope, in accordance with the wishes that we have formed in committee, that the Government will now commit itself, through regulation, to this enlargement. Finally, the committee adopted two additional articles. The first is to facilitate referral to OPECST – the parliamentary office for the assessment of scientific and technological choices – in the event of a declaration or extension of the state of health emergency. The second provides for the submission of a report from the Government to Parliament on the end of life of persons who died during the covid epidemic -19; This report will also address the sensitive issue of changing the rules for funeral rites. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These developments will strengthen parliamentary control over all these issues. The aim of the bill is obviously not to take a definitive look at the ethical acts taken in recent months, but rather to chart a path for the future. Albert Camus said: "A man without ethics is a wild beast abandoned to this world. Let us hope that ethical reflection can be, everywhere and all the time, a compass that will allow us to collectively preserve the values of our civilization and our attachment to the principle of the dignity of the human person.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u83	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u84	Never, under any circumstances, should ethics float in a vacuum; It is at the heart of the medical procedure and of any approach to care, whether it is a long-awaited intervention or an unanticipated, unpredictable care that meets the criteria of urgency. In recent weeks, our country has been confronted with the unthinkable: a health crisis has energized all our health facilities and mobilized our caregivers as never before; We must pay tribute to them because they have faced with exceptional courage and dedication. The technical competence of our caregivers is recognized all over the world, but competence is not just a sum of procedural knowledge or actions to be done to accompany, to help, to heal, to save. Competency is entirely controlled by ethical principles without which to take care would become a mechanical, cold and disembodied task. Ethical choices reflect the values of a society, not in an abstract way, but in everyday practices, in the corridors of our hospitals or in the room of our EHPADs. In the context of a health crisis like the one we have been experiencing for several months, there are perfectly legitimate questions which you have kindly referred to, Mr rapporteur. One of them is related to the competition of temporalities between the long time of ethical reflection and the short time of action, when a life is threatened and one can no longer afford to wait. This competition must be overcome. This bill, initiated by Mr.Xavier Breton, pursues an objective that can only be shared, but we felt it needed to be worked on to make it more effective. This work has been done in committee, and I welcome the involvement of Members who have spent time building a text that takes into account the complexity of the situations to be dealt with. In our country, as you know only too well, we have instruments unique to the world so that technical and technological advances are not out of control and that the progress of science does not contradict our main principles. That's the whole meaning of bioethics laws. As early as next week, we will have an opportunity to debate again in committee the bill that your house has already considered at first reading, and I welcome it. Bioethics laws allow at regular intervals the representatives of the nation that you are to discuss the limits that should be imposed on what the technique makes possible, to draw a clear boundary between what is possible and what is legal. On the other hand, bodies, which can formulate opinions, allow scientists, as well as philosophers, practitioners and citizens, to question tensions at work in certain situations; This is particularly the case with the National Ethics Advisory Committee. This person may be seized without restriction during states of emergency. His reflection has accompanied the decisions of the Government, since he has delivered three opinions during the recent period, as you said, Mr rapporteur. The first, entitled "Ethical Issues in the Face of a Pandemic", was released on March 13, in response to a referral from the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The second, drafted at the request of the same ministry, on "strengthening protection measures in EHPADs and LCUs" – long-term care units – was handed over on April 1. Finally, the third, issued on 20 May, was entitled "Ethical Issues in Deconfining: Responsibility, Solidarity and Trust". [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mrs. Michèle Peyron also applauds]] This text will make it possible to make progress in formalizing the role of ethics in the event of a state of emergency. Many families, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, have been severely affected because they have not been able to attend the funeral of a relative or relative who disappeared during the health crisis. It's a fact and a reality. It will be necessary in the future to guard against these consequences, which should not be regarded as mere collateral damage. These questions are obviously not secondary; They are crucial for each of us, for each of our fellow citizens and for our society as a whole. Mr rapporteur, thank you for putting them at the heart of the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u85	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u86	Who, on these benches, does not remember the distress of the separated families during the unprecedented health crisis that we have been through, and which is not yet behind us? I am thinking of those whose father, mother or relative has been isolated in an EHPAD. Who, on these benches, does not remember the deep sadness, but also the well-legitimate anger of the bereaved families who could not say goodbye to theirs in decent conditions, because of strict health rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u87	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u88	Who, on these benches, does not remember the profound discomfort of caregivers who could not accomplish their mission by being able to live up to their own expectations and those of families?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u89	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u90	Undeniably, situations of unparalleled hardness have made us aware of the dangerous nature of the epidemic, but they have also revealed our society, its weaknesses and its strengths. During the covid -19 epidemic, ethical issues were unfortunately relegated to the background of our concerns. Yet they refer to what we have most precious and what we need to save, even in the most difficult and extreme situations: the dignity of the human person. Red lines have been crossed to respond to the urgency and severity of the health crisis. Thus, many questions remain about the management of the epidemic in residential institutions for dependent seniors, EHPADs, in particular regarding the pending funeral rites or the isolation of residents. It is not a question of distributing bad points or addressing any criticism or moral lesson – it would be unworthy and ill-advised. Nor is it a question of accusing those who have been back to the wall and who have faced, with the means that were theirs and this self-denial that forces our admiration because it reveals the best of Man – I insist on the capital. However, we must accept this observation with no misconceptions and responsibility in order to draw all the lessons from it, the first of which is that the necessary support work for families, caregivers and residents of EHPAD will have to be carried out. I would like to thank Xavier Breton for this text, which enables us to move forward in this area in a spirit of appeasement and consensus, which is indispensable on this essential subject. Indeed, the purpose of the proposed law is neither to frustrate the debate on bioethics nor to amend the Leonetti laws on the end of life or other similar texts; It aims to avoid, in the future, such political decisions being taken without taking into account the ethical dimension, leaving all responsibility on the shoulders of those in the front line. This is why it is planned to make the CCNE the ethical watchdog of the state of health emergency. He will give a preliminary opinion, possibilities for referrals will be open to parliamentarians, and he will present a report giving rise to a debate at the end of a state of health emergency. In committee, the text was rewritten with the agreement of the rapporteur in order to make the scheme more flexible. The CCNE report is no longer a precondition for action taken in the context of a state of health emergency – this provision could have significantly increased the device knowing that neither the nature nor the technical means of the CCNE allow it to work in such an emergency. On the other hand, it is expected that the Committee will report on the measures taken and that it will be available to parliamentarians in the event of a declaration or extension of the state of emergency. The committee unanimously adopted these amendments, as did the bill, which I think is rare enough to be underlined and welcomed – we will have had a nice afternoon with the bill on the agenda by the Republicans. I would add that the committee has had to examine a small number of amendments and that almost all of them have been adopted. A new article has also been introduced in committee, which I think is quite relevant: it aims to give substance to our shared requirement of clarity and transparency by providing that the Government will submit to Parliament, before 1 January 2021, a report on the end of life of persons who died during the state of health emergency. This report will deal in particular with the arrangements for accompanying such persons and with measures derogating from the common law of funeral legislation adopted in the context of the epidemic of covid-19. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM and FI groups]] This bill is evidence that, on issues as fundamental as human dignity, we can work together. It is happy and reassuring for our debates, our institutions and our future. It is for our debate, and it will have to be remembered in a few days' time when the bioethics bill is being considered. It is for our institutions, because Parliament is the place for the expression of the sovereign French people and that there must be no taboo subject within them. It is for our future because, although I do not wish it, a second wave is possible and we will have to be ready to fight the virus again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u91	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u92	The covid-19 pandemic has greatly shaken our health care system, our economy, but also our society in its fundamental freedoms, beliefs and habits. This unprecedented health crisis has indeed required the implementation of extremely restrictive measures in the context of the state of health emergency. If their aim was to curb the spread of the epidemic, they had many consequences, whether it was the isolation of elderly and dependent people, the increase in the precariousness of our most fragile fellow citizens or the evolution of the regulation of funeral rites, as explained in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. These observations must ask us, as legislators, about the relationship between the means of health emergency and the duties of public authorities in matters of ethics in this context. That is why we thank you, Mr. Rapporteur, for having brought this relevant and particularly topical issue before you at a time when this House is to resume consideration of the bioethics bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u94	In its initial version, the draft law sought to entrust the National Advisory Committee on Ethics with procedures for a priori monitoring and a posteriori evaluation of the measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency, in particular those relating to the regulation of freedom of movement for persons, public gatherings or medication. If we were totally in favour of the need for a stronger ethical watch involving Parliament in the context of the state of health emergency, the original mechanism seemed too rigid in terms of the reactivity and agility required in such a text. This analysis, shared by all the groups and accepted by the rapporteur himself, gave rise to relevant legislative work in the Committee on Social Affairs last week and the adoption of several amendments and sub-amendments which make the text more flexible and operational. As such, we are pleased that the possibility of referrals to the CCNE by both Assemblies has been expanded and that the Committee's self-referral principle has been relaxed. The bill is also an opportunity for us to welcome the work of the CCNE and the regional ethical think tanks, which have worked throughout the crisis. This text will make it possible to reaffirm Parliament's consideration of these essential bodies and to include in the legislation their role as watchdogs. Also introduced in committee, the possibility for Parliament to refer scientific and technological choices to the Parliamentary Office for the assessment of health emergencies seems to us to be another significant step forward in strengthening the information of parliamentarians. Finally, the Committee considered the delicate question of the conditions under which persons who died during the state of emergency were accompanied, as well as the painful derogations relating to funeral rites introduced during this period. It will be a matter of analysing all these situations in order to draw the conclusions that will, I hope, improve the protocols and bring them more in line with the ethical principles that govern our country. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The MODEM Group welcomes the co-construction work carried out on the bill, at the initiative of Xavier Breton. The version obtained at the end of the work of the Committee on Social Affairs seems to us to be fully in line with the objective of better taking into account ethical issues in the establishment and extension of the state of health emergency. It is therefore in this spirit of balance and compromise that we will vote in favour of the text as adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u95	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u96	The proposal of our colleagues in the Republican Group draws our collective attention to the many ethical issues raised by the health crisis. The urgency that characterized this period of population containment, particularly at the time we reached the epidemic peak, has led to a certain prioritization of priorities. The first of these was obviously the saving of lives. This is legitimate, but in such a context other key issues have been relegated to the background; This is, I believe, the case with ethical subjects. However, the period of state of health emergency offers many examples of situations where these subjects were essential. Many decisions could indeed question us and should have been more ethically questioned. I am thinking in particular of the isolation imposed on EHPAD residents, the situation of disabled or homeless people, or restrictions on funeral rites and the support of end-of-life patients in palliative care services. If these situations arise, it is first of all because the fundamental freedoms, which seem natural and consubstantial to everyone, have been called into question; Then and above all because confinement, confinement and loneliness may have had harmful effects on the psychological and mental state of the most fragile of us. I am also thinking of the moment when, drawing closer to the epidemic peak and seeing our heroic but tired caregivers, under stress, sometimes even understaffed, and saturated resuscitation services, we have asked ourselves whether, if necessary, we should make the terrible choice of whether or not to provide hospital care to people with low chances of survival. This question ran counter to our fellow citizens and raised serious concerns, not to say indignation; It helped fuel our country's sense of downgrading and exposed the threat of erosion of the values on which our society is founded, especially those of fraternity and solidarity. If this question has been in all minds, we will not have had time to debate it, to question the ethical issues which are so high. We do not forget that each of the decisions was made in a very difficult context, in a mix of urgency and pain. While it is normal in democracy for oppositions to control and even criticize the management of the crisis by the executive, it cannot be ignored that the choices made by the public authorities have sometimes been difficult. That is why the idea of this bill – accompanying crisis decisions with the opinion of the CCNE – deserves reflection. It is true that, if we need to deepen our ethical reasoning about the decisions taken in such a period and make our public policies more subject to these reflections, the CCNE seems, a priori, to be the most qualified body. It was created by President Mitterrand to provide advice on ethical and societal issues raised by advances in knowledge in the fields of biology, medicine and health. In view of the definition of its tasks, it seems legitimate for it to be able to comment on the many ethical issues that arise in times of health emergency. Our group, through our colleague Dominique Potier, questioned last May the Minister of Solidarity and Health, asking him to mobilise the expertise of the CCNE, so that it would carry out a critical review of all the events that took place during the health crisis. We believe that the exceptional context should not lead to putting in parentheses the ethical rules that govern our society: they must be respected in all circumstances. The text proposed to us had initially raised questions, but they could be lifted during the debates in committee – our colleague Serge Letchimy had echoed them. While the CCNE was able to be seized, during the crisis, about the isolation measures in the EHPADs, in its opinion, it deplored the conditions of this referral itself. He said that the expected answer within a very short time frame was "difficult to be compatible with in-depth ethical reflection, which presupposes a multidisciplinary approach to the question and the possibility of a dialogue comparing opinions that might be different". If ethical questions are to arise more during an episode of a health crisis, the necessary means should be put on the table to organize the reflection. However, it appears that the CCNE, by its own admission, is not in a position to assume this new role. However, we are pleased that the debates in committee have been fruitful, raising these uncertainties – at least in part. Indeed, the original arrangement, which was to make pre-advisory advice from the CCNE on the various emergency measures mandatory, has been eased. The text adopted in committee now provides for a comprehensive CCNE opinion, a more flexible and operational mechanism. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u97	Thank you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u98	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u99	The UDI-I Group welcomes the introduction of this bill on the initiative of our colleague Xavier Breton. The period we are going through is exceptional. The pandemic has spared almost any country. The global disaster surprised by its suddenness and speed of transmission of the virus. In the face of the inexorable increase in the number of patients and deaths, it was often sideration and fear that dominated. In response, our country, like most of our neighbours, has urgently adopted measures derogating from freedoms. It was necessary at all costs – it was legitimate – to ensure the health security of the community; Every effort should be made to effectively combat the spread of the disease. Nevertheless, the understandable fear of the strangeness of this unprecedented situation should not lead us to lower our guard over our values of humanity. On the contrary, it must be accompanied by renewed vigilance in order not to cross red lines in ethical matters. Ethics is not an abstract notion; It refers to very concrete situations that affect human dignity. They are our seniors, in EHPADs or confined to the home and deprived of visits or even social ties, for long months. It is a whole universe that gradually collapses into loneliness and sadness, leading some to die of grief. They are the sick people of the covid-19 and separated from their families in the last moments, so difficult. One must have in mind the distress and incomprehension that one can feel when one is alone in the hospital, without the comfort of his loved ones. How many elderly people – I lived it – thought they had been abandoned? It is the bereaved families who do not have the opportunity to accompany the deceased during the funeral. These few examples demonstrate this: the need to confront our laws with our moral values is ubiquitous, and it is even more urgent in times of emergency. This bill is a salutary reminder. It is essential that Parliament be able to maintain its full clarity and a critical look at the measures taken during the state of emergency. We will therefore fully support these provisions. They will allow Parliament to draw on the expertise of the National Ethics Advisory Committee in a simpler and broader manner in the event of a declaration of a state of health emergency. As for the use of OPECST, it will make it possible to take full account of the scientific issues related to the techniques used. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Everything cannot be decided on the grounds of security or urgency, at the risk of losing sight of what makes our humanity. It is therefore appropriate to adopt safeguards. The bill is moving in the right direction: the UDI-I Group will fully support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u100	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u101	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u102	Since March, the country has been experiencing a health crisis of unprecedented magnitude. The state of health emergency, in force since 23 March, has overtaken that which the French have known since 2015, following the terrorist attacks that have marked our country. This state of health emergency, which was to end on 10 July, will nevertheless be part of the common law until next November and will allow the maintenance of mechanisms restricting the freedoms of everyone. Parliament is indisputably weakened because it itself decided, by voting on the exit from the state of health emergency – we will see what will happen after the meeting of the Law Committee this evening, and then the passage of the text in public session at second reading next week – to give some of its prerogatives to the Government. This hidden state of emergency will therefore remain the daily life of the French. The scheme is unprecedented and has affected the entire population; It has also enabled the competent authorities to prohibit the movement of persons and to order confinement. I do not seek today to discuss the justification for these decisions; the moment is now at the moment to reflect on the values of our society, on relations to the Other – with a great "A". The current period, traumatic for some, must prompt us to reflect. It is now essential to learn all the lessons of this crisis in order to build a resilient, serene and law-abiding future. Several ethical issues have erupted into the public debate for several weeks now. The health crisis of the Covid-19 was devastating for our seniors in the EHPAD, especially in the Far East, but also for all grieving citizens who were not able to say goodbye to their loved ones. The ban on visits to institutions or the likely sorting of patients strongly question the entire political class and citizens. Many EHPAD residents have been affected by covid -19, many have died, alone, of loneliness and sadness, in a painting of slip syndrome that must challenge us. The controversial use of Rivotril in these same institutions also poses a major ethical problem to which no one has yet responded. Of course, the challenges associated with the health situation were real and quick decisions had to be taken. However, it is our duty as parliamentarians to assess decision-making channels and governance, and to ask ourselves about everything that has been done. The state of emergency, whatever it may be, must not lead to drifts. In such a period, decisions made can have dramatic consequences. During the health crisis, the Scientific Council played a leading role, particularly with the President of the Republic. If such a body could have been so important, it would be totally incomprehensible that the National Ethics Advisory Committee, too, could not have important prerogatives at such controversial times. Finally, the other great interest of the bill is the strengthening of parliamentary prerogatives during such a period. Indeed, parliamentarians, elected from the field, must also be able to express themselves on ethical issues. The bill refers to a parliamentary debate on all the measures taken during the state of health emergency, which I find quite relevant. Thus, the proposal for an emergency ethic law is a matter of common sense. It does not call into question the measures taken during the state of emergency, but reminds everyone of the importance of ethics and of the control of public decisions in times of emergency. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will therefore support this text in order to address more calmly a possible future health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u103	Thank you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u104	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u105	The period we have been through has been particularly challenging for many of our fellow citizens. We must pay tribute to the health care staff, who have demonstrated a great ability to adapt and have remarkable endurance despite their stress and feeling of loneliness. Emmanuel Hirsch stressed this when we auditioned him, Monique Iborra and I: ethical questioning was overwhelming during the crisis. Yet, they have moved very widely to the background for policy makers – I have said this several times in the media, but the bill gives me the opportunity to repeat it in this chamber. In April, I worked in a resuscitation department at Nancy's CHRU, which was welcoming patients from the covid-19. A protocol prohibited anyone from seeing the deceased. It was up to me, as a caregiver, to put the deceased in the mortuary cover, to close it and seal it, telling me that I would be the last person to see him. I wasn't his family and I didn't know him. There were probably people who would have liked to say goodbye to him one last time. He had no jewel, no wedding ring, nothing. I've been through this experience very badly, having put my blouse back on, and I never want to relive it again. I think this protocol was a mistake. Before banning mortuary rituals, I would have liked an ethics commission to have the subject dealt with. Because of my status, I was lucky enough to be able to call, the next day, the RSA – the regional health agency – and the director of the CHRU to talk about this painful and difficult experience. The only solution that was found following this episode – I thank the ARS and the director of the CHRU – was to ensure the presence of a psychologist with the caregivers after each death; It was very little, but already not bad, at least for the caregivers. I would also have liked an ethics board to deal with the difficult access to abortion – voluntary termination of pregnancy –, triage, drug shortages or prolonged confinement of dependents. Some residents of EHPAD have been left to die of sadness, despair and aggravation as a result of isolation. Our choices in this matter are not annoyed. Even today, families are alerting me because their EHPAD is unable to put in place the barrier measures that would allow visits to residents. I would also like to commend the work of the directors of EHPAD: if they prohibit visits, it is not because they do not like families or residents, but because they do not have the appropriate equipment to allow them. The bill recommends that health emergencies should not escape ethical questioning: the measures taken to deal with them should be scrutinized by a reflection on human dignity. On this point, a reminder is required. The ethical issues should have already been addressed, with strength and gravity, before the epidemic of the covid-19 – I have hammered it several times and I have no difficulty in reminding him again. Is it ethical that EHPAD caregivers only have ten minutes to groom, dress, serve breakfast and give medication to each resident? Is it ethical that, to do this, they often give up brushing their teeth or preventing the appearance of escarres? Is it ethical, in one of the world's largest powers, that people who care for others beat records in terms of musculoskeletal disorders and accidents at work? Is it ethical that our caregivers barely earn the SMIC, while the shareholders of the lucrative private EHPADs in which they and they work raise billions of euros of dividends each year? I could continue to talk about EHPAD for a long time: the severe repression of trade unions and warning workers, the exorbitant cost of accommodation paid by families, the dequalification of professionals and the slippage of tasks. I could also refer to other medico-social services and institutions, such as home support services, DSS – specialized reception homes – and IME – medico-educational institutes. My colleague François Ruffin has just submitted his report on the jobs of the bond, which suffer the same disastrous fate as the jobs of the care. Again, unbearable situations are legions. Ensuring ethics in times of emergency is a necessity; We should take care of this in normal times, outside of a pandemic! Emmanuel Macron wants to relaunch the aviation and automotive sectors. When will he decide to launch a large-scale plan for the care and linkage professions? No ethics justify such double standards in our public policies. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and Agir ens benches]] In conclusion, because the Group of the European People's Party is obviously in favour of ethical issues not being set aside in times of health crisis, it will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u106	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u107	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u108	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] However, we would like these issues to be more central to the concerns of our leaders at all times.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u109	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u110	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u111	"For an ethic of urgency", this is the title of the PPL that we are looking at; I thank our colleague Xavier Breton for bringing him to the debate. The health crisis of the covid-19 will leave deep traces, economic, social and medical, as has often been said, but also traces of human suffering: death, pain, the impossibility of seeing one's loved ones for a last farewell, the difficulty of organizing funerals – though essential, as we know, to the work of mourning – and doubts. Doubts that have settled insidiously in the families: what if my father had been cared for earlier? Didn't my mother die for lack of room? Did my son get the treatments he could claim? So many questions... These painful doubts, we must respond to them by looking back at the arrangements made during the crisis – the National Assembly takes all its part in this work – but also by creating new procedures, so that the French have confidence, and full confidence, when we face a new crisis of this magnitude. That is the meaning of the bill. Ethics is not an option to choose or not to accompany urgent public health measures; This is not the gift package with which we pack emergency measures. This is a central, essential and priority data, otherwise we would ignore our human condition. Effectiveness, rationalization and protocols cannot be imagined and implemented without the ethical issues being resolved in advance. In the name of social utilitarianism, we must not abandon our ethical principles. However, during the crisis, questions arose about, for example, care for the elderly, living conditions in EHPADs and medical-social centres or funeral rites. If I see the need to be particularly vigilant on ethical issues, this commendable attention must not render decisions taken under the state of emergency ineffective when they are to be applied within a very short period of time. The emergency health system is relatively heavy and requires rapid action. Reactivity is therefore essential, which should lead us to question the compatibility between an emergency situation and the need for ethical reflection, particularly at the initiative of the CCNE, whose work is long-term. Any legislation aimed at legislating on emergency ethics must take account of these two seemingly contradictory imperatives, which must be taken into account simultaneously, without excluding each other. The purpose of the bill is to establish an a priori monitoring procedure and an assessment by the CCNE of the measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency. The Group of the European People's Party voted in favour, of course, especially since the work in committee has allowed positive developments in the direction of easing the text. He now calls on the CCNE to self-apply in the context of a health emergency, and this progress is extremely positive. In addition, the CCNE will now have before it any decree declaring a state of health emergency and any bill to extend the state of health emergency. However, there is only one possibility of self-referral for the various enforcement measures that will be decided, whenever deemed necessary by the NCCE. The aim is to highlight the CCNE, which worked extensively during the crisis, as well as the regional ethical spaces for reflection. Their work probably didn't get the echo they deserved, because of a treatment of the news made difficult by the sequence of macabre counts. However, opinions have been published and the CCNE has even self-satisfied on funeral rites, thus changing the original drafting of the decree. The text before us is a form of consecration for the CCNE, whose role, composition and mode of operation we will probably have to review in order to give it a wider place. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] In view of the work of the committee, which has made it possible to clarify the text and which delights me as a parliamentarian, our group, as I said, will vote in favour of it. It is the result of a good work of co-construction, which honours us and that, I am sure, we will continue and amplify during the examination of the texts which will be presented to us in the next few days...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u112	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u113	The health crisis and the choices that accompanied it imposed on us a test, a social trauma. This moment of tension passed our society to the revealer, it came to question our priorities, to question the meaning. In the very management of the crisis, these ethical issues have emerged, which refer us to the idea that we make ourselves human beings, members of the same human race. In a forum published at the end of April, Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben asked: "And what is a society that believes only in survival? » He denounced a society in which, in the name of the health imperative, we sacrifice our freedoms, but also our normal living conditions, our friendships and the respect of our dead. These are questions that we must not leave aside. We heard people wonder if that was how they wanted to live the last period of their lives. We felt how much it is the human bond that keeps us alive, beyond biology. At the heart of the crisis were ethical questions that we are not sure they have always been educated by our democracy under bell, numbness, which relies on a leading Republic and remains suspended from the announcements of its "tele-president". It is therefore more broadly the question of how we collectively went through this ordeal. The philosopher Lucien Sève, to whom I want to pay tribute again with emotion because he left us during this crisis, was an eminent member of the National Ethics Advisory Committee for many years from its creation. It thus defined the fundamental role of this institution: "... through the opinions it will have to issue, to form the public judgment which will make it superfluous". The CCNE does not therefore arise as a moral authority that absolutely says good and evil, but as a body for collective reflection that helps society raise its level of awareness of the issues at stake. If it is in this role that our assembly appeals to him, then this is welcome. And the word of this body would not have been superfluous at a time when we had to make difficult decisions, which would question our collective relationship to the fragility, death, equal dignity of people. But would it have been enough without the possibility of a genuine public debate and a democracy deployed? The Scientific Council set up by the President of the Republic, even though it was chaired by the Chairman of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, for reasons which were also at least as much related to his profession and experience, was still very difficult to respond to these issues; We were more in the register of the prince's council. We need institutions standing up in the crisis, but we felt rather that they were bypassed to ensure a better justification for the decisions taken. Our republic cannot accommodate it. As such, if we are to strengthen their place by including it in the law, we are not opposed to it, but with prevention: obviously, we must learn the political, ethical and historical lessons of the period we have just lived. This will take time and the CCNE's advice, however well-informed it may be, will not be sufficient. While it seems appropriate to question him in times of crisis, the CCNE is not intended – and this is not what the bill provides – to take precedence over the necessary democratic deliberation, which was largely confiscated during the period. The ethical issues raised by certain decisions taken during the health crisis, such as those concerning the organization of funerals, reveal the inadequacies of a mode of government based on expertise when it neglects the arbitral role of politics and adversarial debate. Faced with such anthropological issues, and as our responses engage us far beyond the crisis of the moment and shape humanity, we must guard against any regime of experts, whether their power is real or apparent; We must guard against any scientific and technocratic management, and therefore from a "monarchical" ethical approach to the words of Lucien Sève. Everyone must be in his place in the great body of the Republic and, above all, the citizens must always be in control. To the fear that the official discourse itself aroused to secure its grip was added a vertigo, that of seeing the paradigm of humanity reduced to the health issue, however decisive it may be, or rather to a hygienic issue excluding the other dimensions of the human being, placing with weight this requirement of respect for every human and all human. This hygienist temptation, positivist, scientist, responds to authoritarian conceptions that must be kept fiercely. We can see to what extent, when we look back, democracy remains subversive in nature, under obvious circumstances. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and EDS benches]] The Group of the Left Democratic and Republican Party will therefore vote on your bill, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u114	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u115	Let me begin by thanking our colleague for introducing a bill on this very important subject, ethics in times of crisis. The weeks of health crisis that we have just gone through have illustrated the importance of an ethical approach to the issues raised, whether they be anticipated or unpredictable. The ethical question underlying many decisions deserves the full attention of parliamentarians as well as that of society as a whole: these reflections should not be reserved for a few specialists but rather widely shared. The epidemic of covid-19 has raised many questions because of its unprecedented nature. It imposed the rapid creation of a state of emergency specific to health-related disasters, allowing the implementation of measures restricting freedoms as soon as possible with a view to protecting the population, in a context of constant and often partial knowledge of the epidemic. These measures have raised many ethical questions because they relate to the values that underpin our society: the protection of human dignity, freedom and autonomy, equality and solidarity, fraternity and justice, individual and collective responsibilities. As you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, many of these measures have particularly aroused the emotion of our compatriots: the ban on visits to EHPAD and the confinement of certain residents in chambers; management protocols for elderly patients with covid -19; the prohibition of conservation care in the event of death and the immediacy of beer; restrictions on funerals and funeral rites. However, and it is important to recognize this clearly, ethical questions were not relegated to the background during this crisis; they crossed all the professionals of the care, from nurse to doctor, from the aide-career to the assistant of life and to the director of the hospital. A framework for the measures was organised very quickly, although no specific procedure was foreseen. And the National Ethics Advisory Committee has been approached by the Government or the Scientific Council at each stage of crisis management in order to contribute to the general reflection. He worked independently. As an example, I would like to cite some of its opinions expressed in recent weeks: the opinion of 13 March on the ethical issues of the pandemic and the opinion of 30 March on the strengthening of protection measures in EHPADs and in long-term care units, as well as its position on the decree of 1 April 2020 on the treatment of bodies, in which it alerted the implementation of the measures by stressing the need to put into perspective the health risks of transmission with the long-term psychological risks incurred by families who have not been able to say goodbye to their dead and exposed themselves to complicated situations of mourning. Finally, it has set up an ethical watch for people who are vulnerable because of their age, disability or psychological condition in order to consider a return to experience in order to better understand the fragility highlighted by the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, EDS and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Further questions will need to be addressed by the CCNE in the future: how can women seeking abortions in times of health crisis not be penalized?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u116	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u117	Is it ethical to temporarily stop certain emergency activities, such as organ transplants, thereby penalizing patients? In order to better answer all these and future questions, referrals to the National Ethics Advisory Council will now be systematic in the event of a declaration of a state of health emergency or the tabling of a bill extending it. The NCCE will also be able to address any ethical or societal issues related to the actions taken in this context. The text completed in committee also strengthens Parliament's power by making OPECST the scientific council of parliamentarians during a state of health emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, if the bioethics bill that we are going to consider at second reading over the next two weeks confirms the creation of a permanent parliamentary delegation to bioethics that our assembly voted on at first reading, we will be able to answer any timely ethical questions in real time even more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u118	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u119	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their unanimous support for the adoption of this bill, as well as the Secretary of State for the joint work. I note, moreover, that the Government initiated the accelerated procedure on this text on 15 June, which confirms the importance it attaches to it. I am grateful to my colleagues in the Republicans Group for co-signing this bill and placing it on the agenda of this parliamentary niche; I particularly thank our President Damien Abad. One last thank you for the administrator I had the pleasure of working with. I believe that we have found ourselves on the record: that of families that are permanently affected, that of all these painful situations to live in. And during this general discussion, we were able to hear the testimonies of several colleagues: I am thinking in particular of the feeling of abandonment of the dependent elderly evoked by Béatrice Descamps and the poignant experience of the last impossible farewell that you lived, dear Caroline Fiat, at the resuscitation service of the CHRU in Nancy. Our second point of convergence is that ethics cannot be relegated and marginalized, but must be at the centre – "at the heart," you said, Secretary of State – of our reflections and decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u121	We must preserve what is most precious: the dignity of the human person. As Agnes Firmin Le Bodo, who knows these issues well, said, "ethics is not an option." I think this formula sums up everything: we can't ignore it, decide whether or not to put it aside. The ethical requirement must be at the heart of our action. But ethics, and that is my third point, must be part of a collective approach. Maxime Minot, rightly paying tribute to those who have been on the front line, said: we cannot leave them alone. Parliament must take part in this collective reflection and Martine Wonner is absolutely right to invite us to be part of this debate, both at the time of the declaration and during the state of emergency, and then at the time of its assessment. Jean-Louis Touraine recalled that our assembly voted at first reading of the bioethics bill to create a dedicated parliamentary delegation – I believe that we will also find ourselves on this point, my dear colleague, in the next few days. And then, of course, there is the question of how ethics should be taken into account. The text I originally drafted was probably a little too systematic, a little too rigid, even more so in times of emergency. Isabelle Florennes clearly showed that this first milling was not operational. It had to be relaxed and at the end of a co-construction, I believe that we all agreed that the CCNE was "a priori, the most qualified organization", in the words of Marie-Noëlle Battistel, to deal with these subjects – it did well to remind that in a written question, Dominique Potier proposed as early as 26 May a referral to the CCNE on all the ethical issues raised during this health crisis. Turning to the modalities, it is also an opportunity to question how our democracy deals with ethical issues, which was well illustrated by Pierre Dharréville, of whom I remember that he occupies the seat of Michel Vaxès, who had worked a great deal on the revision of the bioethics law in 2011, as part of his steps in terms of ethical reflection. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, SOC, IUD-I and EDS group]] These are all mixed observations. It is important that, even when our conceptions differ – we will have the opportunity to see them in the near future – we can work together to build our thinking on ethics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u122	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u123	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u124	"I was afraid of death," wrote Jules Renard to his wife Marinette. "I am no longer able to die young. » Beyond civilizations, times and religions, we all feel the fear of death evoked by the writer. Religion then accompanies us to eternal rest. The ritual proper to each confession allows the believer to pass through the other world. Today it is difficult for believers – Muslims and Jews in particular – to carry out ritual burials in France. Of the 35,000 cemeteries in the national territory, only about 200 have a Muslim square. The small number of denominational squares – a few hundred – thus imposes the repatriation of the bodies abroad. During the crisis, however, this repatriation was made impossible by the suspension of the airlines. [[The speaker quotes the Bible in Hebrew]] I therefore propose that the report on measures derogating from the ordinary law of funeral legislation taken in the context of the epidemic of covid-19 which will be presented to Parliament also take into account this ritual question, which is essential for the various religious denominations. In the Jewish religion, for example, burial is an obligation, and burial must take place very quickly after death. "His body must not remain on the tree at night. You have to bury him the same day. » Colleagues, allowing all religious denominations to bury their dead with dignity, even in times of crisis, is a matter of ethics and even civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u126	This is a personal opinion, as the committee did not have the opportunity to discuss the amendment. We all agree that funeral rites refer to the privacy of each person and family: the state is only involved with a great deal of caution and only for health reasons. The questions you raise also refer to the organization and layout of cemeteries, i.e. a pre-health crisis problem that will continue to exist after it. While the epidemic has revealed dysfunctions, they are not at the heart of the concerns that led us to introduce the bill. Article 3 provides that a report shall be devoted to the question of the end of life and funeral rites. In particular, it will deal with religious rites, but focusing only on this issue would be disproportionate. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u128	For the same reasons as the rapporteur, I also ask for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u129	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u130	I accept that the proposed wording is too focused on religious affiliation. I therefore withdraw my amendment. However, I am taking the date for us to try, in the future, to resolve this serious issue, which indeed affects the intimate, but which shows above all the need to respond, with respect for secularism and the Republic, to those of our fellow citizens who wish to follow confessional funeral rites but cannot do so, in particular because of legal constraints preventing someone who does not live in a commune from being buried there. I hope that we will address these issues in other texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u131	On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Republican Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u132	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Maxime Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u133	Caregivers have forced our admiration through their availability, courage and self-denial. Caregivers have adapted their practices and implemented new protective measures in order to continue to provide quality care to all patients. The purpose of this bill is in no way to accuse those who have been back to the wall of anything. On the other hand, accompanying work is now required for families, caregivers and residents of EHPADs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI group]] The aim of this text is to prevent such decisions from being taken in the future without taking into account the ethical dimension and leaving all responsibility on the shoulders of those who have been in the front line. The Republican Group welcomes the fact that this text has been placed on the agenda of its parliamentary niche, and will of course vote in favour of the fine bill tabled by our colleague Xavier Breton.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u134	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u135	This text is, as the rapporteur has pointed out, a co-production: it has been collectively shaped in committee. On this occasion, we sought – and hopefully succeeded – to chart a path between the desire to frequently question the CCNE and the need not to differ from urgent decisions in crisis situations. This has not been easy to find, and the text has been corrected to limit the risk of delays caused by excessive consultations. Similarly, the path is narrow between the speed of the response desired by the executive and Parliament and the need to allow the NCCE to carry out in-depth reflection, free from pressure and based on multiple consultations, which characterize its work. We have thus written together a text which departs from any rigidity, but which will strengthen our decisions by giving them an ethical dimension. The La République group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u136	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u137	The crisis has led to social, economic and human cataclysm. A lack of control at such a time of exception is likely to lead to drifts, which can further aggravate an already very difficult situation for everyone. The EDS Group welcomes the fact that ethics is being put at the centre of concerns and welcomes the fact that once again we agree on these fundamental elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u138	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u139	As I mentioned earlier, the IDU and Independent Group welcomes this welcome initiative from our colleagues in the Republican Group. The exceptional period that we are living in, which has marked us all deeply, has required the adoption of emergency measures derogating from freedoms in order to ensure the health security of everyone. But what we have experienced leads us to recall how much renewed vigilance is needed in order not to cross the limits of ethics. It is therefore essential that Parliament retain its full clarity and take a critical look at the measures applied: everything cannot be decided for reasons of security or urgency, except to lose sight of what makes our humanity. The IDU and independent group will therefore give its full support to the bill and thank you, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u140	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u141	Because ethics should not be an option under any circumstances, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the text. I thank the rapporteur for defending him. It is important that this bill be adopted unanimously: it would be a very nice signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u142	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u143	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 42 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1249.u144	Next meeting, Monday, 29 June, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the draft organic law postponing the election of six senators representing the French from outside France; Discussion of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
