ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its examination of the defence appropriations (No 3399, Annexes 13 and 14; No 3403, Volume IV; No 3465, Volumes II to VII) and to veterans, in memory and in connection with the Nation" (No 3399, Annex 7; No 3465, Volume I). Mr Claude de Ganay, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u3	Draftsman of the opinion on programmes 212 and 178, it is my task to examine the budgetary appropriations dedicated to the joint support and logistics of this finance bill – PLF – for 2021. As the military programming law – LPM – is being updated, maintaining its financial trajectory is satisfactory, despite a difficult economic situation. For the programmes that concern me, I have noted significant progress in the following areas: the continuation of the family plan, to which I had devoted my budgetary opinion last year and whose role is to improve the daily lives of our soldiers, thus contributing to better loyalty; the SCA project – Secure cooperative autonomous systems – 2022, for closer support to the soldier, including the deployment of Atlas spaces – one-stop shops for administrative services at defence bases; the launch of the hosting plan, with an envelope of €237 million in programme authorisations and €96 million in payment appropriations; the entry into force of the Geographic Mobility Allowance, the first step of the new policy on compensation for members – NPRM – which will make the calculation of the pay of our members more readable; Finally, the extension of Source Balance to the Air Force and the Armed Forces Health Service – SSA. This is an opportunity for me to pay tribute to the men and women of the SSA, who have been, in a context of strong pressure and weakening of their resources, the working ankle of Operation Resilience. However, I would like to reiterate that the primary mission of the SSA is not to treat civilians, but to provide health support in operation, from the combatant's medical operational readiness to the resumption of the service of injured or ill personnel. Let me turn to the thematic part of my report. This year, I chose to address two topics: the Department of Armed Forces' cultural policy and the Department's communication. With regard to cultural policy, I have noted, on the one hand, the desire of the Ministry to renew and diversify its cultural offer and, on the other hand, the significant financial effort made for the renovation of the Marine Museum in Chaillot, the extension of the Musée de l'Air et de l'Espace au Bourget and the modernization of the Service historique de la défense – SHD. These efforts are essential to strengthen the armed-nation bond and to enhance the place of the armies as the second cultural actor of the State. As far as the communication of the armies is concerned, my assessment is more mixed. The Ministry of Armed Forces has initiated a process of transformation of the Delegation to Defence Information and Communication – DICOD. This transformation may have been justified, but it raises three questions. The first concerns the overlap of the cross-cutting communication mission of the DICOD and the communication mission of the communication body of the General Secretariat of Administration, the SGA-COM. The second relates to DICOD's human resources policy, including its recruitment strategy. The increasing civilization of DICOD, with a ratio of 60-40, results in an increasingly small contribution to external operations. As a result, the Military Staff Communications Unit, EMA-COM, and the military information and public relations services, the SIRPA, which are already at the bone, are obliged to compensate for the military disengagement of DICOD in order to ensure the operational contract. The growing civilization of DICOD has a second consequence: a growing gap with the military identity of the ministry – I would point out that it is not the presence of civilians that questions me but the profile of the civilians recruited. I come to my third question, which concerns the role of spokesperson entrusted to the delegate of DICOD. In this capacity, as specified in a 2019 order, the delegate ensures relations with the general or specialized press and responds to her requests for information. However, I have heard several television, radio and print journalists, who have all confirmed to me their difficulties in obtaining information, and even finding interlocutors at DICOD; However, they maintain close relations with SIRPA and EMA-COM. I would like to recall here the difficult economic situation of journalists, who are struggling to justify their position as defence correspondent for lack of sufficient material to deal with. While it is not up to the State to resolve the economic difficulties facing journalists, it is its duty to inform citizens about its policy, to report to them on its action, and thus to provide information to defence journalists. That is why the mission of spokesperson is essential to the Ministry of the Armed Forces, as is the case in all the ministries of the Republic of Senegal. How are journalists supposed to carry out their information mission – in which some see a form of counter-power? If DICOD is an ad hoc structure, outside the three pillars of the ministry and directly attached to the minister, it is primarily because of the vital importance of its role as a spokesperson. Since this function is not performed, its specificity is no longer justified, and this calls into question its position in the organizational chart of the ministerial communication. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] These three problems that I have identified are likely to affect the proper functioning of our democracy if a solution is not found quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u4	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u5	[[Applause on all benches]] First of all, I would like to say that I honour myself as the first woman to report this budget, and I thank Thomas Gassilloud for joining in it. The National Defence and Armed Forces Commission has already given a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the Defence Mission. I welcome the support of a Government that has fulfilled its commitments to the French and, in particular, to the military. The law of military programming is respected for the third year in a row, which is unprecedented in the history of these programming laws, and we see the incidents whose narrative fills our media daily how welcome the increase in the defence budget is. However, I cannot fail to observe the paradox that, while budgets have never been so high for more than a decade, the LPM is being strictly respected, and the armies have put in place effective maintenance contracts, the Army is struggling to intensify its operational readiness. It is hard to reach 56% of its targets, expressed in terms of hours on major equipment in 2020, and the forecast for 2021 is 57%. In 2021, the training time of a Leclerc tank crew will be half as much as it should be. The number of hours of activity on this equipment will fall from 20,000 hours in 2019 to 13,000 hours planned in 2021. This development is of particular concern as the army has to prepare for high-intensity conflicts. How can I explain it? The progress of the army's operational activity is now slowed down by a mountain of financial needs to be met, the mountain of the MCO, or maintenance in operational conditions. After years of delaying the delivery of new equipment, under-execution of the "small equipment" appropriations and cuts in the operational readiness budget to finance the additional costs of the OPEX, the military programming law 2019-2025 has taken on the problem of arm-to-arm: the regeneration and modernization of the equipment is the subject of an unprecedented effort, and the provision for the additional costs of OPEX is gradually increased to the level of the recorded costs. This effort is undeniable and produces visible effects every day. Although very active in operational terms, whether they are planned or unforeseen operations – Resilience, Friendship in Lebanon or, since yesterday, reinforcement of Sentinel – the army has resumed the path of the training grounds. This effort, however, is insufficient to meet the ambitions of the LPM and that expressed by the Chief of the Land Staff in his strategic vision of a "hardened army". First, because the pace of operations remains steady, whether abroad or in the national territory. OPEXs have a high and unpredictable cost, too destabilizing to be borne by staffs alone. Then, because yesterday's renunciations produce today's cost slips. The relaunch of the Leclerc turbomachine production lines, closed in 2014 to save 4 small million euros, will cost several hundred million euros – and this is just one example among others. In addition, the Ministry of Armed Forces is pursuing its ambitious modernization: the maintenance of new, more sophisticated equipment in operational condition is therefore more expensive; Similarly, "global" or "vertical" equipment support contracts are also more efficient, but also more expensive. Finally, the context has changed. The 2020 coronavirus pandemic has raised awareness of the need to relocate certain strategic productions, maintain skills, assume duplicates and rebuild stocks, which are now historically low. For all these reasons, a mountain of costs rises before the army and prevents it from preparing for the shocks of tomorrow, which no one can predict but which will most likely be harder and larger than the current operations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister of the Armed Forces, I believe that these issues should be on the agenda for an update of the military programming law. Until then, you know my proposals to free the Army's potential in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u6	Mr Didier Le Gac, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u7	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that, in a constrained budgetary context, the national defence budget continues to rise, in line with the commitments we made during the adoption of the 2019-2025 MPA. Once again this year, the appropriations allocated to the national navy are also increasing, with €3.8 billion in commitment authorisations and €2.6 billion in payment appropriations. Of course, I can only rejoice. Indeed, I am one of those who think that we have sometimes fished in recent decades with a geostrategic approach that is too land-based. Today we see how the sea is at the centre of the geopolitical and strategic stakes of the moment and how our country, the world's second largest maritime power, can and must assume a major role in this field. New threats – but also new hopes, I hope – come and come from the sea, whether they are issues related to strict defence, security and respect for borders and exclusive economic zones, humanitarians, transport, energy, the environment or the flow of information via submarine cables. Who could have imagined, only twenty years ago, that global warming would open up new maritime routes through the Arctic – the famous north-east and north-west passages – for Russian and Chinese ships? On all these subjects, our national navy is fully mobilized. In addition, as confirmed to us by the Chief of the Navy Staff, Admiral Pierre Vandier, during his hearing, naval combat becomes again a serious working hypothesis. That is why I am pleased that the Navy's appropriations for 2021 allow the implementation of three types of commitment: firstly, the permanence of the deterrent posture; Then, the defence of our maritime territory, for which the navy is responsible for the tasks of the action at sea; Finally, the presence in five simultaneous theatres of operations, the Gulf of Guinea, the Strait of Ormuz, the North Atlantic, the Central Mediterranean, Libya, and eastern Syria? The 2030 ambition aims to build a complete military model, up to these strategic challenges. The appropriations of the finance bill for 2021 confirm the rearming effort of our national navy undertaken since the vote of the LPM 2019-2025 with key orders, including that of a defense and response frigate and that of eight light joint helicopters; Numerous deliveries, including three renovated patrol aircraft, a multi-mission frigate – FREMM –, a renovated light stealth frigate and a Cayman helicopter. In addition, major infrastructure programs in our ports will continue in 2021, with the arrival of many new generation buildings. In this regard, I was able to observe, during my trips to military ports, the first tangible effects of the family plan launched in 2017, which contributes to the improvement of the living conditions of sailors and their families, as well as their accommodation and equipment conditions. The Navy will continue to equip itself with drones, which are absolutely crucial for approach and listening monitoring. The effort to maintain equipment and investment in operational conditions – MCO – will continue in 2021. The MCO is essential for the availability of ships and the number of days spent at sea. As I pointed out in the second part of my report, it is imperative that a successor to the Charles-de-Gaulle by 2038 be built and that a new-generation carrier – PANG – be built. It is essential that the national navy maintain its status as a great maritime power and maintain its naval autonomy by equipping itself with a modern aircraft carrier, i.e. a high-tech aircraft carrier, which combines, on the one hand, our century-old aeronautic know-how and, on the other hand, the adaptability to the dynamics of global conflict. The concept of aircraft carriers and aircraft force remains relevant because of the operational advantage it represents in the face of possible enemies with unorthodox and increasingly disinhibited methods. It will also be necessary to adapt to the air combat system of the future, whose new combat aircraft will be on the aircraft carrier what the Rafale is currently at Charles de Gaulle. Finally, PANG will have to ensure interoperability with strategic allies and be at the heart of all European cooperation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations allocated by the finance bill for 2021 correspond to the objectives of reviving the French national navy. I welcome this positive development, which will enable our country to maintain its position as a great power in the world, to protect its interests and to ensure the application of international law everywhere and over all the oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u8	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u9	"A third world war in pieces": this is how Pope Francis described the state of the world in the encyclical Fratelli tutti on fraternity and social friendship. Published on October 3, this encyclical has a cruel gravity in the wake of the attacks that have just struck France, on October 16 in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and yesterday in Nice. While, in recent days, fanatics have been targeting France in a large part of the world, my first thoughts obviously go to the families and relatives of the victims, as well as to the elected representatives of the communes concerned. We're not going to let these few blood-loving fanatics think they might ever win. Their struggle is doomed to failure, for they oppose an idea that surpasses them, a robust country, fortified by a thousand-year history, and a people eager for life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u11	Nevertheless, France is experimenting daily with the acceleration of the world's disorders. Both in the East and in the Sahel, where our soldiers are fighting the terrorist hydra, the aircraft of the Barkhane force carried out 109 air sorties just last week, including 26 sorties of combat aircraft. In the Mediterranean Sea, the reckless agitations of President Erdogan led to the illumination of the frigate Courbet and confirmed that a high-intensity conflict had become possible again at sea. To the east, the Cigognes and Leclercs participate in the reinsurance measures carried out for the benefit of the Baltic countries, within the framework of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Finally, in the national territory, the Head of State decided to increase the number of men deployed under Operation Sentinel to 7,000. In front of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, the Chiefs of Staff made the observation of an increasingly shook world, marked by the disinhibition of powers. All circles are involved. For the one who cares for me, the air force, the superiority of the Western armies is gradually being called into question. In the Levant, only our Rafale can be deployed due to the presence of high-performance Russian and Turkish combat aircraft and the spread of the high-level ground-to-air system. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In this context, the continuation of our rearmament efforts is inevitable. Although a member of the opposition, I can only acknowledge that this is what the budget proposed by the Government is about. With regard to the Air Force and Space Force, the appropriations under Programme 178, "Preparation and Use of Forces", amount to EUR 9 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2.5 billion in payment appropriations, representing an increase of 78% in commitment authorisations and 8% in payment appropriations. All this goes in the right direction. On the other hand, I am concerned about the future: the health crisis we are going through is accompanied by economic effects whose consequences we cannot yet fully measure. However, we know that our already narrow budget margins will be further narrowed. In this context, consideration should be given to the coverage of needs for the last three years of programming. In addition, as the Chief of the Armed Staff points out on a regular basis, our army will certainly be back in power after military programming, but it will remain a peacetime army. Minister, we must now leave the time of reparation to prepare a wartime army. Will we be able to afford it? Let us take the example of combat aviation: by 2025, a quarter of the air force's fighter aircraft will be devoid of air-to-air combat capabilities. How can we enter first into a high-intensity conflict and at the same time ensure the protection of the national sky? We need to step up the modernization of our combat aviation, by increasing the number of aircraft and, above all, by equipping them with efficient and sufficient mission equipment – I am thinking of pods, active antenna radars and ammunition. If I welcome the order of twelve new Rafale by the end of the year, I wonder how they will be financed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and Dem groups]] I return to Pope Francis' encyclical: "History," he says, "is giving signs of retreat. Anachronistic conflicts, considered outdated, are on fire, nationalisms narrowed, exacerbated, full of resentment and aggressive reappear. More than ever, we must prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u12	Mr Christophe Lejeune, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u13	Again this year, the Government's proposed budget for the Defence Mission is on the rise. It amounts to EUR 39.2 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 4.5% and EUR 1.7 billion. With EUR 21 billion requested in commitment authorisations and EUR 13.6 billion in payment appropriations, the 146 programme, "Equipment of forces", benefits from most of this increase since it captures almost 65% of the new appropriations. The nation's defence effort is all the more remarkable given the fact that it is part of a fiscal environment that is constrained by the world's health crisis and its economic consequences. It is therefore very logical that the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has issued a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the Defence Mission. Before I mention the appropriations entered for next year, let me say a word about the current year. From the beginning of the crisis, the Ministry of Armed Forces set itself in order of battle, in conjunction with the industrialists, in order to minimize its impact on the conduct of weapons programmes. In the end, 2020 was therefore the year of a large-scale rearmament programme, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic and the provisions of the military programming law. Important milestones have also been laid in the preparation of the future: I am thinking in particular of the launch of the Suffren Sea Test Campaign, as well as the test shot of the M51 missile. Delays are inevitable, but they will be contained and all will be resolved by the end of next year. Finally, I do not forget that the Ministry of Armed Forces has benefited from the stimulus measures: I am thinking in particular of the expectations of aviation orders, announced last June for an amount of 600 million euros, thanks to your determination, Madam Minister. Our efforts will continue in 2021. Program 146 funding will continue to increase the capacity of our armies. I will mention in particular the order of the first Guépard, the delivery of many aircraft and ground equipment of the Griffon programme, as well as a FREMM. In space, a CSO satellite – an optical space component – and a CERES satellite system – a space electromagnetic intelligence and listening capability – will be delivered. Can't be exhaustive for lack of time, let's just remember that 2021 will be a happy year for all force systems. The LPM and the PLF are full-fledged stimulus plans: recognize it, we look forward to it and remind those who seem to forget it! That said, we will have to remain vigilant about our strategic enterprises, in particular SMEs and IMPs. I have devoted a large part of my report to them. They constitute the bulk of the industrial fabric of the BITD – an industrial and technological defence base – composed of about 4000 companies employing some 200,000 people. However, we all see this every day in our territories, they have been hard hit by the crisis. The magnitude of the crisis and its duration are explained by the combination of two factors, perfectly described last spring by our president, Françoise Dumas: on the one hand, the contraction of national demand and the absence of a resumption of air traffic; on the other, the absence of a resumption of export markets. The State's response has been strong and effective, including enhanced partial activity and guaranteed loans. All the actors I met also welcomed the proactive action of the Ministry of Armed Forces, in particular that of the "Task Force" in support of the BITD. But in the face of the scale of the crisis, let us make sure that our efforts are sustained. We will have to find ways of reviving exports, while some of our competitors take advantage of our absence to lure markets, and meet the challenge of financing the defence industry in the face of the timidity of some banks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In order to remedy the fragmentation of the strategic industrial fabric, it seems appropriate to accompany a movement of consolidation of our companies. In doing so, we would help strengthen them in the face of the voracious appetites of some of their competitors. It is also about maintaining our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u14	Mr Stéphane Baudu, alternate Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u15	First of all, I would like to greet Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion, the potential contact of a positive person at Covid-19. He went into isolation this noon and looked at us from a distance. "These French, whom we were forced to throw into the battle, have rights over us. They want none of our thoughts to turn away from them, and none of our actions to be foreign to them. We owe them everything, without any reservations. Thus was Georges Clemenceau, President of the Council and Minister of War, here, on November 20, 1917, before the Chamber of Deputies. From the first generation of fire, whose nation commemorated the commitment during the First World War, to the soldiers who today fight jihadist terrorism in the Levant and the Sahel or who warn him in sentries in our streets, from the pupils of the nation to the widows of war, from the wounded or killed soldiers to the victims of the terrorist attacks – unfortunately news since yesterday – it is to the entire world fighting that the right to recognition and reparation is addressed. The implementation of this right is the subject of the comments of the draftsman, whom I am presenting here before you. The interdepartmental mission "Veterans, Memory and Link with the Nation" is a link between civil society and the fighting world, as well as between generations. The actions contained in the mission are intended to demonstrate the nation's recognition of the world of veterans and to encourage the French population's commitment to national defence issues. By strengthening the patriotic spirit, this mission contributes not only to the proper functioning of the armies, but also to the nation's resilience to the crises that have been passed. The mission is structured around three complementary programmes. The appropriations of programme 167, "Links between the nation and its army", are increasing, in order to strengthen actions aimed at youth and memorial politics. As a continuation of previous years, Program 169, "Recognition and Reparation for the Fighting World", is also strengthened, in order to consolidate the rights of CPIVG nationals – Code of Military Disability Pensions and War Victims – while strengthening the fairness between the various generations of fire. Finally, programme 158, "Indemnization of victims of anti-Semitic persecution and barbarism during the Second World War", continues its implementation, fortunately without debate, form or substance. Ms Geneviève Darrieussecq, Minister Delegate to the Minister of the Armed Forces Florence Parly, and the draftsman of the opinion have been pursuing since 2017 a constant policy of maintaining and extending rights to nationals of the fighting world, by deciding and implementing measures that have been requested for a long time but have remained unanswered until then: harmonisation of the conditions for granting the survivor's pension before and after 1962; Extension of the benefit of the fighter card to former soldiers who could justify four months of presence in Africa, between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964 – a measure affecting nearly 50,000 former military personnel; increase in the pension of those who have given up a large part of their professional career to take care of their spouse heavily injured for France. This year, the major advances are the convening of the tripartite convention – state, parliament, associations – to upgrade the military disability pension point – PMI – and the extension of the number of surviving spouses of large war invalids eligible for an increase in reversion pension. Thus, a widow of a great war invalid will be entitled to an additional military disability pension: if her deceased spouse had received, from this pension, 6000 points, this number will increase to 10000. In the second part of his report for opinion, MP Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer wanted to devote an important place to Senegalese tirailleurs in France's memory policy, addressing this year the Thiaroye massacre, a veritable memory vacuum that needs to be addressed seventy-six years after the facts. These, of unparalleled cruelty, took place in the early morning of 1 December 1944: dozens of Senegalese tirailers, demobilized and presented as mutins or deserters, were executed as they came to claim their pay and their captivity bonus. It is not a military fact, for no senior, both today and yesterday, would accept the killing of his own men, his own warriors, who fought for France and were captive for her. This massacre is the result of men who did not want to see that a France leaving the Occupancy would never again be the same, that a just and resistant France would now rise against any form of oppression. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem group]] The Thiaroye massacre is an emerging symbol; This is why the draftsman of the opinion opened the doors of the hearings this year to Senegalese associations of descendants of tirailleurs and historians, so that the national representation can face up to our history – our whole history – and learn from it, so that it never repeats itself; So, too, that the truth finally finds a land to be fertilized: France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u16	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. May I remind you that the time limit for speakers is five minutes. Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u17	After three years of presenting the army's budget – which I now know in very good hands, thanks to the involvement of Sereine Mauborgne – I have received the mission to bring you the position of the Take Together group on the appropriations of the missions "Defence" and "Veterans, memory and links with the Nation" of the 2021 finance bill. A year ago, right here, during the review of the PLF 2020, who could imagine the shock of the health crisis? At that time, we welcomed good economic trends in terms of growth, deficit reduction and falling unemployment. Then came this pandemic, brutal and persistent, deeply disturbing – even inverting – the mentioned progressions. For many, the 2019-2025 LPM, which had already miraculously survived the financial consequences of the yellow vest crisis, would not escape sacrifice this time, as was almost always the case in the past. Yet, Madam Minister, you are again presenting a PLF 2021 in line with this LPM. Thus, this budget devotes a new budgetary effort of EUR 1.7 billion, an increase of 4.5% in appropriations. The budget rapporteurs have brilliantly explained to us what this means for each of the armies, both to repair, but also to modernise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u19	In order to ensure that the nation's defence effort is as understood as possible, it is our duty for everyone to explain the reasons for this to our fellow citizens. First, at the international level, we have entered an era of great instability, of erosion of respect for international law and of the often unseasoned use of force. Secondly, the health crisis shows us that strategic surprise still exists; It is better to have invested well upstream in order to be ready. Thirdly, the current situation reminds us of the urgent need to combat terrorism; This fight takes place on our soil as well as at times far from our borders. In order for France to be ready to deal with all the scenarios, and because we want peace, the Group of the European People's Party will vote with conviction in favour of the appropriations for these two missions. Having said that, our group's DNA is to be a vigilant component of the majority. More generally, beyond our group, we French, know what it costs to let go of what General Beaufre called, in the drama of 1940, the poisons of victory, these false doctrinal certainties that precipitated the French army into the greatest defeat in its history. My duty, therefore, is to share our concerns and proposals. First of all, while awareness of the possibility of a high-intensity confrontation is now a fact, its operational decline in the 2021 budget does not seem to us to be sufficiently marked. In fact, over the last twenty years, our armies, under heavy budget constraints, have organized themselves more to cope with a projection average – a commitment average – rather than at a peak, moving gradually from a stock logic to a flow logic. The PEGP – a policy of employment and fleet management – is an example: in nominal conditions, the pooling of the fleet of vehicles certainly makes it possible to operate, but when you ask a regiment how many companies it can actually equip, the answer can be worrying. But deterrence, which is a national treasure, does not cover all scenarios. Without waiting for the LPM's re-visitation clause, it would have seemed desirable, with a constant financial envelope, to gain more by 2021, for example through a greater increase in the stock of ammunition – especially those we no longer know how to produce in France –, basic mobility equipment or operational reserves. Finally, how can we not say a word about the situation in the Sahel? After seven years of engagement, since the start of Operation Serval, we find that, despite our great tactical successes – which we owe to the formidable efficiency of our forces – the situation is not changing favourably on the spot. We are also seeing a heavy human balance sheet, too heavy, and a significant financial cost to the nation. In 2020, the incremental costs of operations are expected to reach a record level of 1.6 billion euros, or 500 million more than expected. In this context, how can we not be challenged by the recent release of 200 jihadists in Mali? Do we still share a coherent strategy with our Malian partners? If so, what strategy? The question does not seem to me to remain or to leave, but, no doubt, to remain otherwise, in a common and demanding transition strategy, thought with our partners, in a less cumbersome format so that the French forces can prioritize aid towards countries that improve their governance. It is a matter of reassurance, of course, of international action and of continuing certain ad hoc actions, in particular with Operation Sabre. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That, Madam Minister, is my vision and that of the Working Together Group on the 2021 budget of our armies, for which we will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u20	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and LT groups]] It is a great emotion and an honour for me to present myself to you tonight. I have been sitting in this House since 9 October, and I am speaking for the first time in this gallery: I hope it will not be the last.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u22	Welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u23	With €39.2 billion, an increase of 4.5% over 2020, the military budget for 2021 is satisfactory and serious. The IDU and independent group obviously approves this increase of 1.7 billion and is pleased that the military programming law is finally not revealed only a pure exercise of poetry. After the movement of the yellow vests, the challenges of the pension reform and the crisis of the covid-19, the Government could have had the temptation, as has been so often done in the past, to use the armies as an adjustment variable. This has not been the case, at least with regard to the two missions that bring us together. As the storm rages, the Government has decided to stay on course, and we welcome this courageous decision. I will not go back to all the qualities of this budget, but I would nevertheless like to highlight some of them. Budget 2021 will help improve the working conditions, living conditions and equipment of soldiers; That's the minimum we owe them. The year 2021 will also be the year of the implementation of the new policy of remuneration for military personnel, with an enhanced system of compensation for geographical mobility. On this point, I would like to alert you, Madam Minister, to the persistent inequality towards soldiers from the Pacific with regard to the installation bonus in metropolitan France. This situation has been going on for too long and is absolutely not up to the dedication and love of these soldiers to the homeland. MEPs Philippe Dunoyer, Philippe Gomès and Nicole Sanquer have tabled an amendment to this effect and hope that it will be adopted or, at a minimum, followed by commitments from the ministry. In terms of capacity, the IDU and independent group welcomes the delivery of many equipment, as well as the various orders scheduled for 2021. These are visible and concrete signs of the rise of the armies. If all these elements go in the right direction and are to be welcomed, however, our group regrets that the defence is the great forgotten of the recovery plan. Of course, measures in this plan will benefit the defence industry: credits for dual space technologies or the reduction of production taxes. Some orders have been anticipated to support the aeronautics sector and several companies are already benefiting from remedial measures. But will that be enough? We regret that the Government has not taken advantage of the crisis to invest even more intensively in this area of excellence, which guarantees our strategic autonomy and is one of the best investments for the State from an economic, social and budgetary point of view. Faced with this critical situation, the IDU and independent group defended an amendment to this effect last Monday, as part of the "Relaunch Plan" mission; He was immediately swept away with a back of his hand, as if this subject did not exist. However, this is not just a view of the spirit, as demonstrated by the flash mission of Members Benjamin Griveaux and Jean-Louis Thiériot, as well as the European motion for a resolution which we will be discussing next 3 November in the Defence Committee. In my home, in the Albert-Méaulte basin, the historical fief of aeronautics in the Somme, Airbus subcontractors take full advantage of the crisis. Job cuts have already been announced: 290 in Stelia Aerospace, others in AAA and various subcontractors. A total of 339 job losses relate to the Méaulte site in a department already badly affected by the restructuring of sugar mills. Every day, the geopolitical context unfortunately shows us that diplomacy and the measured verb gradually leave room for senseless phrases, warlike facts, the politics of fait accompli and an uninhibited use of force. As the world becomes darker, conflicts become more complex and areas of confrontation multiply at the gates of Europe, our group hopes that this missed opportunity will not jeopardize the Government's defence efforts since the beginning of the quinquennium, nor even our ability to defend and enforce our interests. With respect to the "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" mission, although the budget is down $70 million, the IDU and Independent Group believes that due to the particularly constrained economic environment and the unfortunate clarification of the ranks of our veterans, it remains satisfactory. The rights of veterans and their dependants are maintained and even extended in some cases; We look forward to it. Our group will remain particularly vigilant about the work of the tripartite commission scheduled for the last quarter of 2020; It must examine the evolution of the military disability pension point, which we call for. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Despite the regrets and vigilance raised, the IDU and Independent Group welcomes the work of the Government and will vote for the appropriations for both missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u24	Your first intervention was somewhat more than the five minutes allowed, but you are forgiven. [[Smile]] The next speaker is Mr Jean Lassalle, who will respect the allotted time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u25	[[Smile]] Chief of Staff François Lecointre – the General – was educated in a primary school located 25 kilometres from my home in the village of Laàs. We met him in an atmosphere that I had not known for a long time, thanks to the chairman of the Defence Committee, Mrs Françoise Dumas. Madam, for the study of such a sensitive and delicate subject, you have created an almost family atmosphere, which for a country is very good. I was very impressed with the work of the rapporteurs. One of them gave me a map with a text to read, but I lost it. If he recognizes himself, he could give it back to me, that would be good. Thank you and congratulations to the Minister of the Armed Forces: for the second time, you are presenting a budget that is faithful to the MPA, which I welcome. The world is changing, the United States is gone and Brexit has gone through it. In NATO, we no longer know exactly who our friends are – or the others. Consideration must also be given to the emergence of China and many other powers. Brexit, moreover, is not necessarily a disadvantage, at least not entirely. You know better than I do, the British have drawn, with us, the last millennium. For a very long time our enemies, they've been ravening. They'll never give up getting out of the story. Therefore, they will be allies more than objective, in particular for the maintenance of the deterrent force, which France now supports alone for the European Union. We would also have an interest in making this known to our people. We are working in good conditions with Germany, and of course with the other countries of the Union. All this is happening in a world that is becoming more and more ephemeral, unpredictable, experiencing crises, hotbeds of tension, a human misery that is constantly growing on all sides. The European Union has given up. I would like to stress an area in which we have fallen behind, as we were in advance. It's about space research. God knows, however, that danger is imminent, for example, with regard to minisatellites. I am happy, as I wrote a long time ago, that we are creating a fourth army against cybercrime. If we re-launch space research, we will have the means to deploy our deterrent force differently. In my view, it is also through this process that she can express herself. I hope that we will go further in this area. I am thinking of President Kennedy, whose vision, expressed in a world on the brink of chaos, was extraordinary – "we choose to go to the moon," he said. That wasn't his only goal – everyone followed. What happened in Mali? Will you be able to repair the mistakes of 2011 and 2013, and revive a genuine French diplomacy, which comes to the rescue of the army? The Associate Minister, who is responsible for memory and veterans, also think about the points of military pensions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u26	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u27	I guess I won't let anyone down by starting with a criticism, even if you're not really responsible for the situation I'm denouncing. We are discussing a defence budget, while the strategic directions to which it must contribute are beyond our control. In my opinion, as in the opinion that the group La France insoumée defends, it is one of the critical brands of the Fifth Republic. Our military interventions, strategic choices and their consequences are not discussed here. If they were, I think we'd win. At a time when we are under attack, when consent to certain subjects is needed, when our troops are engaged in Mali, as the previous speaker mentioned, it would be legitimate and right for us to ask ourselves politically about the meaning and presence of our military. Then, depending on our political choices, we would decide what material means would be necessary to bring them to a successful conclusion. I do not believe that Parliament should be ruled out and that decisions should be taken only by the Government or even by the President of the Republic alone, since that is one of his prerogatives. Once again, it is a criticism that we address to our institutions. I would like to illustrate it with examples. The project of the new aircraft carrier, the sale of eighteen Rafale aircraft to Greece, the deployment of the universal national service: all the contours to which the draft budget presented to us does not provide details. It is a bit of a hole budget, there is no mention of the sale of the eighteen Rafale aircraft, nor is there any mention of the precise amount corresponding to this increase in power several times affirmed by the universal national service and the army corps concerned. Frankly, all these issues are problematic. With regard to external operations, the Government often decided unilaterally. This is a paradox: we sometimes find that these operations are under-budgeted, while they are, according to the often repeated formula, aimed at putting force at the service of law – once again, without us being able to debate it. I would like to look at the substance, since we have to go quickly and I have to content myself with speaking, rather than making a real decision. This budget is lauded as a stimulus budget. Nevertheless, in my view, it is still short of expectations imposed by the context. Of the 1.7 billion increase, $1 billion comes from the anticipation of orders in heavy programs. But what kind of stimulus is this, when 80% of the budget effort of the military programming law is planned for after 2023? Let us take it as saying: the follow-up to this two-year programming law and its objectives is not really a synonym for recovery. What revival is this when SMEs in our defence industry are struggling to be supported, as other speakers have mentioned, when they are essential for our military sovereignty? I am thinking, among other things, of Tarbes industries, a strategic enterprise threatened with liquidation. As you know, Madam Minister, my colleague Bastien Lachaud and I have spoken to inform you of this. I come to the gap between this so-called revival and its concrete translations. The law of military programming was intended, to take up your expression, up to man; But there is every reason to believe that it is not really up to the requirements of the military condition, even though some improvements have been made; In terms of accommodation, salaries, small equipment, as you know, progress does not always meet expectations. The same applies to the 27 per cent increase in the appropriations for the military health service. The pandemic is far from past, and there is no significant increase in numbers. There is a concern that all of this is not enough to truly protect our soldiers. Taking advantage of this short moment, I would like above all to say a word about the tensions that are shaking France and Turkey today. The subject has often been discussed here, but I want to highlight an aspect that – unless I have not given my attention – has not yet been mentioned: we are part of a military alliance with the same Turkey! We are engaged in NATO with a foreign leader who asks the head of the French armies to take care of himself! What conclusions do we draw? None. None! Some tweets have been sent, but the threat is clear, including with unacceptable internal effects, when supporters of President Erdogan march through the streets of some of our cities, threatening some of our compatriots, especially of Armenian origin. But we are committed to a military alliance with Turkey! Perhaps it would be time to draw some consequences, failing which one does not understand the tone that sometimes rises. With regard to the funds allocated to veterans, things have been done. Of course, I mentioned a few criticisms, and more could be done. But my last word, in the few seconds that remain, will be for the important question of the relationship we have with Algeria. What we call the Algerian war is both one of the last great and lively conflicts in which we have been engaged, painfully, and the end of a colonial history. I expect much from the mission entrusted to historian Benjamin Stora; I guess we'll discuss it again. I hope that it will provide strong answers. The President of the Republic asked for a reflection on what could contribute to reconciliation; I believe that we have to work hard on this because, I believe, there are some effects of a vivacious topicality in the light of current tensions in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u28	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u29	The first part of my speech will be devoted to the subjects to be addressed by Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir, spokesman for the GDR Group on this budget, chosen in Martinique. She wished to express, in her personal capacity, a favourable vote, welcoming the new 4.5% increase in the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces to €39.2 billion, which respects the trajectory of the military programming law 2019-2025. As part of her mission with Jean-Michel Jacques on the continuum between security and development, she noted on the ground, in the Sahel, the importance of waiting for our soldiers, as NGOs, and our allies and partners, as to France's mission and role abroad. She would like to stress that this budget responds to a double observation: that of an increasingly dangerous world, where our soldiers are everywhere engaged, and that of the state where our armies were in 2017. It also wanted to address the twofold demand that we have to maintain our sovereignty and independence: the events in Turkey remind us of it, as the European Union's procrastinations and the disengagement of the United States remind us of it. Turkey is threatening, it has a strong and consistent army. So, although it is part of NATO, we must not lower our guard. I share my colleague's positive assessment of the choice of our Mediterranean and European solidarity with Greece. Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir also wished to stress the importance, in the current context, of having a dynamic and national defence industry. The defence industry has complained, she recalls, of being forgotten in the recovery plan, and they are calling for more coordination with the defence industry. Our defence industry is also confronted with the growing reluctance of the French banking and financial system to support the defence sector, particularly companies that offer digital or physical security solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u31	Start-ups are the first targets, because of their financing needs for rapid development. SMEs, some of which have been active in the field of defence for several decades, are now also in line with these reservations. This is a threat to the sustainability of the defence and security industry, with the risk of loss of sovereignty and strategic autonomy. As far as I am concerned, I shall refer to the unfavourable vote of the Communist Members, taking up only a few of the points which justify it. The first is the maintenance of France in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, an alliance overtaken by history and, in the words of the President of the Republic, "in a state of brain death". Beyond alignment with American domination and its industrial and commercial interests, the expenditure is substantial, in particular because we are providing part of the air service in the Baltic countries on behalf of NATO, and we are making available to the Alliance 400 French personnel. Another subject of divergence is the lack of vigilance against defence companies that do not exercise due diligence in the field of human rights, as defined by the United Nations Business and Human Rights Guiding Principle. This is the case of French companies that provide military equipment and services to the coalition led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, at the heart of the ongoing conflict in Yemen: combat and surveillance aircraft, aircraft engines, bomb guidance and drop systems. In this budgetary debate, I will defend two amendments by our group, one on the inadequacy of the funds provided to the small equipment of our soldiers, and the other on the inadequacy of the resources allocated to the health service of our armies. I will propose to increase the appropriations by limiting the budget for the modernization of nuclear deterrence: this would be a strong sign of our country's will to move towards the abolition of nuclear and radioactive weapons, a will already affirmed by some 50 French parliamentarians of various sensitivities who have signed a bill to organize a referendum on France's participation in the abolition of nuclear and radioactive weapons. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LT groups]] With regard to the budget for veterans, I will refer to the analysis and reservations of the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, my colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne; They lead us to cast an unfavourable vote. The funds abolished would have led to an expected improvement in the living conditions of veterans. We regret this missed date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u32	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u33	While yesterday, in Nice, the President of the Republic announced that the staff of Operation Sentinel will increase from 3000 to 7,000 troops mobilized, we are here tonight to decide on the budget of the defence and veterans of the PLF 2021. I would like to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in such a demanding context, we will be able to vote on this budget with the interests of our military as our sole compass. Whether in external operations around the world to secure our sovereignty or in national territory, our armed forces remain engaged at a very steady pace. Our soldiers pay for this commitment with their lives. Since the beginning of the year, ten of them have died in operation. Tonight, I have a very special thought for them, for what they embody, but especially for their families. Everyone, on these benches, remembers the faces of these children of France. Everyone also remembers the exceptional commitment of our military at the height of the first wave of the pandemic. Again, since Wednesday, in metropolis and overseas, the armies responded "present", proving once again that we can count on them. In return, it is up to us to live up to the demands we impose on them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The military budget is on the rise for the third consecutive year, now amounting to €39.2 million. This budget fully respects the commitments that the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, made in 2017, and we will continue to move forward more calmly. We can all welcome the determination and the high value of the work carried out by the Minister of Armed Forces, Florence Parly, and by the Deputy Minister Geneviève Darrieussecq, who each year fight for our military and who defend our country, France. Our majority is proud to support the voluntary and ambitious action of the executive. We put an end to the cuts, underinvestments and other renunciations inflicted on our armies by a series of perilous and irresponsible policies carried out over the past twenty years. This budget, built on the operational reality of our military commitment, makes it possible to chart a path towards our 2030 ambition, and it demonstrates to the armies that they can in turn count on us. It takes into account the rise in preparedness for high-intensity conflicts; It also provides a solid perspective on the equipment of our military, both on the large, complex and technologically demanding programs, and on the small equipment that contributes equally to the operational capability of our forces and to the improvement of their operating conditions. Thus, from material to support for families, from infrastructure in regiments to maintenance in operational condition, nothing is forgotten. All of the professionals and veterans interviewed in committee share this finding and easily recognize it. I want to conclude this intervention by addressing my final words to veterans who will again be able to benefit from enhanced measures this year. This budget strengthens the link between the French military and the people they defend. It is a question of maintaining the links with our oldest, of making live through their memory what they have experienced. At the same time, it is a matter of reaching out to the next generations, of integrating them more into our national novel, our republic as a whole, and the values that it proudly carries. All these subjects are of the utmost importance. Let us never lose sight of the fact that, behind these figures and columns, these programmes and these lines of text, we take refuge in our hands the lives of all those women and men who consent for our country to the supreme sacrifice, if necessary. It is now more than obvious: it is a duty. As we undergo a major economic crisis, we must continue the upsurge of the French army, because threats are increasing against our country, our values and our culture. We see it every day, again yesterday in Nice or a few days earlier in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] Let us all live up to the commitment of our soldiers to our nation. Let us live up to our task and together continue the ambitious action we have been taking for our armies since the beginning of this mandate. We owe it to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u34	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u35	The 2021 budget of the National Defence can be seen as a half-full glass or as a half-empty glass; I will look at both aspects successively. In a third phase, I will talk about a missed opportunity: the recovery plan. Let's start with the glass half full. The 2021 budget, amounting to €39.21 billion, is 4.5% higher than 2020. The financial trajectory set by the military programming law 2019-2025 and thus respected: it must be emphasized. [[Smile]] Sad minds – of which I am obviously not a member – may object that this financial effort may be reduced by the extra cost of external operations which, in 2021, could exceed by EUR 400 million the amount of EUR 1.1 billion you have planned for this purpose. This EUR 400 million will have to be taken from the defence budget to the detriment of other actions. It is also to be feared that the cost of domestic operations – I am thinking of Operation Sentinel – will explode, given the tragic events that we are experiencing: 4000 additional military personnel have been affected. Similarly, the lack of clarity persists on the financing of two short- and medium-term expenditures. The first is the replacement of the twelve Rafales transferred to Greece; the second, the repair of the nuclear attack submarine Pearl, net of compensation paid by the insurers of the site. Now I'm going to the half-empty glass. Even if it complies with the forecasts of the military programming law, this budget will not be able to deal with the threats that appeared or worsened after the vote on this law in 2018. In my speech at this rostrum, on 30 October 2019, I was already drawing up a list of five factors of aggravation: the increase in crises and their increasing intensity, as more and more countries are equipping themselves with sophisticated weapons; the persistence of the terrorist threat; the attitude of the United States, which may lead us to doubt at times the Atlantic Alliance; the weakening of international treaties and multilateralism; Finally, a standstill European defence policy, particularly in industrial matters – arbitrations on the two major Franco-German programmes, the air combat system and the tank of the future, are still not returned. The situation has deteriorated further since then: the year 2020 saw the escalation of Turkey's aggression and the destabilization of the states in the Maghreb and Sahel, not to mention, of course, the epidemic of covid -19. Minister, you have to keep a language of truth and draw all the consequences: the military programming law 2019-2025 is now partially out of date. The time for asymmetrical conflicts is over, and we must arm ourselves as soon as possible for a high-intensity conflict against opponents using the same technologies as we do. It must be noted that the increasing resources made available to our armies by the 2021 budget do not meet this challenge. In the absence of sufficient budget appropriations in the defence budget, at least the stimulus plan should have been used. That was not the case. This is the missed opportunity that I was talking about in the introduction: the arbitrations were very unfavourable to the Ministry of the Armed Forces and the place of military orders in the recovery plan is very small. The figures speak for themselves: out of the €100 billion that the Government claims to allocate to the recovery plan, 16 billion relates to the aviation sector and, out of this €16 billion, only €600 million is earmarked for advance orders for military aircraft. Not a euro for the army or the navy buildings in the recovery plan! For all these reasons, the Republicans will abstain from the 2021 defence budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] We will do the same for the veterans' budget, because, alas, once again, the majority did not accept our amendment to increase the veteran's retirement by 2 points on 1 July 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u36	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u37	We are, of course, all in shock from the terrorist act which once again struck our country yesterday, and I have a special thought for the victims and their families. I also wish to commend the security forces that have intervened to stop the terrorist in his murderous madness. In response to the ever-increasing and unpredictable terrorist threat, the President of the Republic has decided to increase our military forces from Operation Sentinel from 3000 to 7,000 military personnel. This illustrates our ability to implement a true security continuum. Our military personnel are indispensable to internal security in the extremely difficult period we are going through, and I would like to commend them for their commitment and professionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats is engaged alongside our armed forces to give them the means to carry out their tasks. That is why we are particularly vigilant with regard to budget planning for our armies and for the fighting world as a whole. In this 2021 finance bill, the military budget is 4.5 per cent higher than in 2020. As you said, Madam Minister, it shows a rise in major equipment, a support for the French economy and the dynamism of our territories, an investment effort to support innovation, recruitment and the family. It is a budget of responsibility, which meets the needs of everyday life and prepares the future. It is a budget of solidarity and memory, which recognizes and repairs. Of course, there are still gaps, weaknesses, but we want to believe that the fiscal dynamics we are committed to will help us overcome them. Nevertheless, our group would have liked the national defence industry to have its full place in the recovery plan. I know, Madam Minister, that you will refer us to the figures of the military programming law: over five years, from 2019 to 2023, we will have mobilized 110 billion euros in favour of our armies, the equivalent of the recovery plan. We look forward to it, but there is a missed opportunity. The recovery plan aims to support sectors that suffer and to generate leverage. This effect is generally particularly dynamic in the defence industry. In this sector, the effectiveness of public investment in employment is far superior to that of all other sectors. In addition, minister, small defence companies need to be accompanied – I was able to see it in my Mayenne territory. As we all know, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 is a special year in many respects. It has seen our armies meet important commitments, including in a new way through Operation Resilience, which is the contribution of the armies to the inter-ministerial commitment against the spread of covid-19. At the international level, the health crisis has been an opportunity for some to adopt unjustifiable behaviour and trample the law. As you were able to say before the Defence Committee, Madam Minister, the behaviour of several powers with global or regional claims has reached an unprecedented level of expression: public intimidation, demonstrations of force, strategies of misinformation on social networks or on the street. The desire for international cooperation is increasingly being supplanted by strategic competition, hence the risk of uncontrolled escalation. This budget must incorporate this new reality. This need must be underpinned by synergies. Our defence must be understood in strengthening the links between the armed forces and other dimensions of security, including internal security; Operation Sentinel is a perfect demonstration of this. But this security continuum must not stop at relations between security forces only: other added values must be associated with this synergy. I am thinking of the operational reserve, on which a fact-finding mission has just been launched. At the other end of the spectrum, we must all be actors in the policies of memory and recognition due to the fighting world, because there is no place for the planning of the future without knowing what links we attach to our past, built in common. Finally, the implementation of the green strategy and the rationalization of energies in the armies show that our national defence policy and our environmental ambition are fully converging, which is very important. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] For all these reasons, Madam Minister, the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will vote for the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u38	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u39	This discussion is in the context of a health crisis and tragedies against the backdrop of terrorism. My first words will be for the military health service, which I would like to acknowledge the decisive contribution to the past and – one can fear – future care of patients with covid-19. I would also like to assure you of our gratitude to the 4,000 women and men who will participate in the rise of the Vigipirate plan. We are experiencing increased threats and tensions at international level, including at Europe's borders. Faced with the assertion of actors inclined to question the balances inherited from the Second World War, defence investments may never have been more justified, in any case for many years. Moreover, our country must act at the heart of a crisis of multilateral institutions, which has now been challenged, including by some of the guarantors. NATO no longer provides full assurance. This will be the case at least until next week's election – everyone will understand on which side my hopes turn. The questioning of the pre-eminence of international law and multilateralism complicates the necessary ban on the use of war as a means of resolving conflicts. War resurfaces in hybrid forms. France must anticipate these strategic threats and work at all levels to maintain the primacy of peace. We are, of course, the country of nuclear deterrence, but this one is not everything and cannot do everything. A strategic continuum is needed that begins with the operational capability of conventional forces. Deterrence only works with a range of capable and available forces. From this point of view, the year 2021 is crucial, as it will be the year of the mid-term update of the military programming law. General Lecointre, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, rightly pointed out this: until 2021, the LPM will make it possible to repair the armies – after years, admittedly, of sub-donation; in 2021 must open the time of renewal and increase. It will therefore be a pivotal year, rich in challenges in the design and development of new weapons programmes. The French army still has capacity gaps – airborne surveillance, refuelling aircraft, strategic transport – which, unfortunately, the LPM has not yet filled. Of course, the rate of increase in the appropriations for the Defence mission set out in the LPM is, or almost, 100 million euros – which is not entirely a straw. But, like other speakers who have spoken before me, I regret that there is no plan to speed up the pace of deliveries under the recovery plan. Indeed, as everyone knows here, national defence spending stimulates innovation and productivity, while developing local industrial fabrics and civilian production. Several undisputed studies show that a euro invested in defence earns two after ten years. I hope, Madam Minister, that the updating of the MPA in 2021 will re-evaluate the effort to be made to accelerate these investments. Moreover, the increase in the budget does not put an end to the permanence of a few deficiencies – which nourishes the feeling that glass is half empty. I'll only mention two of them. Firstly, although historically high, the initial allocation of EUR 820 million for external operations will still not be sufficient, with an additional cost of EUR 500 to 600 million expected. Secondly, the twelve used Rafale sold to Greece and the other twelve scheduled to be sold to Croatia will be taken from the air force's stocks. We question how this shortfall will be addressed, which will have consequences for operational capabilities as well as for the training of troops. Thus, despite a significant increase in appropriations, our armies remain under heavy pressure and sometimes operate at the limit of their possibilities. Renewing capabilities and improving operational readiness remain key issues. Given the ever-increasing external commitments, the delay in some programmes, and the difficulty of retaining staff, the military is no longer able to adequately provide the training and operational readiness necessary for the maintenance of skills, especially since the Coronavirus crisis has hardly helped maintain a sustained pace of recruitment in 2020. In conclusion, even though the effort is undeniable, unquestionable, the defence budget remains burdened by a large number of mortgages, which still make the updating of the MPA and the transition from military repair to renewal and increase uncertain. That is why the Socialist and related group will abstain from voting on the appropriations of the "Defence" mission. In addition, for reasons that I will put forward during the consideration of the amendments, he will not vote for the credits of the Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u40	The general discussion is closed. The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u41	First of all, my thoughts go to the victims of the terrorist attack that took place yesterday morning in Nice, as well as to their families and relatives. The fight against terrorism is the daily life of our armed forces and that of our security forces. I would like to pay them a strong tribute this evening to you. Our armed forces are constantly mobilized, both on national soil and abroad. We will continue to use all the means necessary to combat those who threaten us. As announced by the President of the Republic, Operation Sentinel will be strengthened: 7,000 troops will be deployed on our soil, especially in front of schools and places of worship, to protect the French. We will be able to return to it; As time is running out, I'm coming up about the day. [[Smile]] For the third year in a row, the military budget fully respects the commitments and financial trajectory of the military programming law. This budget is the concrete implementation of the commitments made by the President of the Republic in 2017. I would like to thank all those who, on all the benches of the Assembly, have recognized or praised it, even though some – they will recognize themselves – may have had a somewhat persifious compliment. The budget for 2021 continues and consolidates the rise of our armies. With the law of military programming, we have put in place a real battle plan to give France a complete military model. Pursuant to this battle plan, the resources of the Ministry of Armed Forces have increased every year since 2017, without exception. The allocation to the Ministry will thus amount to €39.2 billion in 2021, 7 billion more than in 2017. If we reason over the period from 2018 to 2021, our armies will have benefited, in total, from an additional 18 billion. The budget for 2021 is also, in the context we know, an essential contribution to the economic recovery of our country. If we reason more broadly over the first part of the period covered by the LPM, it is 110 billion euros that will have been injected into the economy for equipment, for infrastructure and for the maintenance in operational condition. It is therefore the equivalent, in five years, of a stimulus plan dealing only with defence issues. In addition, we accelerated implementation as early as June, anticipating certain LPM orders as part of the Aeronautics Support Plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] From this point of view, Greece's decision to buy eighteen Rafale, including six new appliances – it is the first European country to acquire them – is excellent news for our entire industry. We are actively pursuing our discussions with the Greeks in order to make it a reality. To answer one of the questions raised by the Defence Committee, I confirm that the proceeds of the sale of the Rafales will go back to the army budget. It is also a plan to boost employment. In 2021, the Ministry of Armed Forces will be France's first recruiter: it will recruit nearly 27,000 people, all over France and at all levels of training, and will continue its efforts in the fields of intelligence, cyber and digital. I now propose that you go into detail, quickly evoking each of the four axes of the LPM. With regard to improving the working and living conditions of staff, I would like to highlight three key elements that illustrate that the budget for 2021 is man-made. First, we will devote €237 million to improving the accommodation conditions of the military, as part of the accommodation programme, with € 1 billion over the period 2019 to 2025. The second element is the renewal of our military's small equipment, with the acquisition, among other things, of 12,000 new HK416 rifles and 126000 new flame retardant nets. Finally, the third element is the increase in funding for the military health service, many of which you have welcomed. This increase is part of an effort undertaken in 2017, when we ended the deflation of the staff of this service. We had also decided on a number of pay enhancement measures for practitioners and paramedics, amounting to EUR 31 million between 2017 and 2021. The second area I wanted to mention concerns deliveries and orders, which will also continue in order to modernise heavy equipment and equipment. Expenditure in this area will increase by EUR 1.7 billion in 2021, with two thirds of this amount being spent on major weapons programmes. The third axis is the consolidation of our strategic autonomy: 5 billion euros will be committed in 2021 to continue the renewal of the two components of French deterrence. As for the fourth axis, it relates to the preparation of the future. This includes innovation, which is why 900 million euros will be spent in 2021 on tomorrow's technologies. We are therefore on our way to achieving the expenditure target of EUR 1 billion per year in 2022. We know that these exceptional means give us a responsibility that is equally so. Every euro spent must be a useful euro. The Defence Mission's budget for 2021 is therefore a demonstration of constancy, confidence and recovery. It is that of pursuing the mission of protecting the French and that of supporting our businesses, our jobs and our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] I now rely on you to adopt it and to make it the foundation of our achievements in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u42	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u43	The link between the army and the nation is at the heart of our history and is an essential element of our national unity. The proposed budget for the mission "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" for 2021, which I have the honour to present to you today, is a new step in this regard in preserving and improving this link, and it demonstrates our commitment to this unwavering link. Recognition, reparation, transmission and solidarity are the pillars. With a budget of 2 billion euros, of course a 3% decrease due to the decline of citizens – you know that every year – this draft budget nevertheless maintains all the rights and tax arrangements of veterans and their beneficiaries, civilian war victims and victims of terrorism. He applies what we have decided together since 2017, such as the soldier's map for the soldiers deployed in Algeria from 1962 to 1964 and the support of widows and harkis. More generally, this draft budget continues to support all those to whom we must give our attention, that is to say, the most fragile. This is reflected in the maintenance of a high level of funding for ONAC's social action – the National Office for Veterans and War Victims – as well as a new action for the spouses of the great war invalids and the rise in the solidarity fund for the children of former harkis, which amounts to 7 million euros. A new target and performance contract was signed with ONAC for the period 2020-2025. As I had committed myself to it, his departmental network was preserved and his resources were planned and insured for six years. Its budget will be EUR 56 million in 2021. Of these appropriations, €2.5 million will be devoted to the routine maintenance of necropolises and high places of memory. The National Institute of Invalides will receive an operating grant of EUR 12 million and an investment allocation of EUR 3.7 million, in order to be able to start by the end of the year the construction of the infrastructures that will contribute to the creation of the new medical project, indispensable to our wounded. The relationship between the army and youth has also not been forgotten, since the appropriations for this action, which includes the defence day citizenship and voluntary military service, have increased by 15%. A highly effective integration mechanism, voluntary military service will welcome 1200 young people in 2021 – 200 more than in 2020 – thanks to a change in its organisation. For the year 2022, the aim is to welcome 1500 young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u45	I will conclude this presentation by referring to the memorial action. Appropriations to carry out memorial actions increased by 60% in 2021, from EUR 11 million to EUR 18 million. They will meet the maintenance needs of necropolises and high places of memory, carry out the necessary renovations, finance ceremonies and educational activities and promote memory tourism. But beyond the figures, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how precious our link between the army and the nation is and how much the dissemination of the fighting memory and its values seems to me, in these difficult days, more than ever indispensable. The fighting memory shows us that, when France is united, it stands up in crises and dangers. It invites us to resilience in trials. It shows that, far from separatism, our country has relied on its diversity to defend its unity and freedom. It teaches those who believe they are far from it that they are gloriously linked to the construction of our country. And, as Louis Aragon says, she unites "the one who believed in heaven and the one who did not believe in it." [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and LT groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know your commitment to the armies, to the fighting world, to the fighting memory, and to those who live it on all territories. This budget, I hope you will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u46	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u47	It is not easy to respond in clear terms to the continuing evolution of the geostrategic context while guaranteeing our strategic autonomy. To do this, you have chosen, Madam Minister, a method, that of promises and long-term action, which avoids any unfortunate mismatch between political statements and concrete realities. And for the third consecutive year, the budget presented, which amounts, let us recall, to 39.2 billion euros, is in accordance with the law of military programming. It implements the supply of equipment and the improvement of the living and working conditions of the military. Having said that, I would like to refer to an area that has little to do with defence, but which has a significant impact on its budget and its organisations: our energy strategy. If, in Europe, we have now become aware of our dependence on fossil fuels, it can become a matter of military concern in the event of supply difficulties. One day, however, the armed forces should not be hindered in their actions because of a lack of preparedness in this area. In order for a paradigm shift to be organized over time, substantial investments must be made to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, to continue the thermal renovation of our buildings and to better cope with the environment in which our forces evolve. So how does the Ministry of Armed Forces take these issues into account and what response does the PLF for 2021 provide? On the other hand, in order to succeed in this challenge, which is not just industrial, we will need sufficient and qualified human resources. As France's first recruiter and first state budget, how will the Ministry of Armed Forces organize itself to recruit and train these engineers and mechanics who will work to improve today's equipment and design those of tomorrow, in order to make France an innovative and independent military power?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u48	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u49	The Ministry of Armed Forces intends to be an actor who plays its full role in energy transition. We have done extensive work on this issue, involving all the actors in the ministry, and I have recently presented a strategy in this area. It primarily covers the energy and environmental performance of our current infrastructure – buildings, offices and accommodations – an issue on which Geneviève Darrieussecq and I have drawn up a very ambitious action plan. In addition to the department's budget, we have tabled several projects as part of the stimulus plan. But improving energy efficiency is also an operational issue, due to the increased competition for access to resources. In this regard, energy efficiency must increase the performance and endurance of weapon systems by optimizing their energy consumption and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. Limiting energy consumption also leads to a decrease in the frequency of refuelling, which means less exposure of our forces. Energy must be taken into account in our equipment, from the moment they are designed. And we need to prepare for the future. We will use open innovation with a hydrogen drone project. We have launched specific energy projects and are also studying energy alternatives for a number of equipment, like the Griffon Hybrid Armoured Project, which will be developed in 2022. [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] To carry out this work, you are right, you need skills. Military engineers will see their evolution as part of the transformation of the military gas service, now called the operational energy service. The evolution of defence policy will take time, but, as you understand, our approach is proactive and research and development will continue through PLF funding for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u50	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u51	The defence budget allocates €624 million to space programmes, including €100 million for the development of launchers. The Group of the Movement for Democracy and Related Democrats welcomes this because, as the Court of Auditors said in a report published in 2019, "the mastery of space technologies and the ability to gain independent access to space are, for Europe and France, interests whose importance has never been greater". You yourself recalled that, Madam Minister, during the presentation of the space defence strategy. Given the current geopolitical context, there is no longer any doubt about the need for independent access to outer space. This is a sovereignty issue and a growth relay for our space economy. However, competition in the launcher market is becoming increasingly harsh. The Ariane launchers sector faces very important challenges, from technological, budgetary and health issues. The crisis of the covid-19 continues to cause delays and additional costs, whether it be the new Ariane 6 rocket or the Prometheus engine project, developed by ArianeGroup on behalf of ESA – the European Space Agency – and which should allow Europe to enter the era of reusable. The tests of the Prometheus engine were postponed to 2021, while an Ariane 6 shot before 2022 became unlikely. So, Madam Minister, can you tell us how France intends to support the launcher industry, to support its technological development and to reduce its very strong dependence on the commercial market? In addition, since the Senate has not passed the bill to legislate by ordinances in this area, are you considering introducing a bill to amend the space operations law in order to integrate space defence policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u52	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u53	As you have rightly stated, space is a strategic sector for our defence and our economy. Space is a priority of the military programming law and, in this context, I have proposed to the President of the Republic a space defence strategy that meets the challenges. In concrete terms, 4.5 billion euros will be invested in space defence policy over the period 2019-2025. As you said, the field of launchers has been part of European cooperation led by ESA since the 1970s and, in the case of France, by the CNES – Centre national d'études spatiales. This cooperation is aimed at meeting commercial and institutional needs, and I believe that this strategy is the right one. In no case, however, can the evolution of the commercial sector call into question the need to preserve sovereign access to outer space. France, at the last ESA ministerial meeting, confirmed its support for launchers' programmes, whether they are Ariane 6 or developments in favour of a reusable launcher. It is through the joint action of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs and the three ministries concerned with space that we will be able to convince, I hope, our partners to choose Arianespace, the remaining commercial market, no matter what, a strong pillar of European launchers. As far as technological developments are concerned, ArianeGroup is a dual company, leading the future Ariane 6 launcher, but also ballistic missiles of the deterrent force, and we are continuously investing in modernising the means of deterrence and ensuring the maintenance of skills in this field. The skills thus developed therefore also benefit the civilian launcher. This complements the efforts made by the Ministry of Research, and now by the Ministry of Economy, but also by the technological bricks developed in cooperation with the agency, such as the Prometheus engine or the Themis reusable launcher demonstrator. Finally, with regard to the evolution of our legislation, military space operations must be capable of being conducted by the State itself in order to respond to specific technical issues and to a requirement of enhanced confidentiality. These are, of course, very technical provisions, but they are also very essential. I therefore hope that an authorisation can be maintained in order to adapt our right to the evolution of the threat, and I obviously count on all parliamentarians, of whom I know that they are all committed to ensuring security and sovereignty in the space field, so that the text of the research programming law can ultimately include such a provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u54	We're done with this set of questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u55	I call the "Defence" mission's appropriations, which are listed in Statement B. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1633.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u56	Our defence budget depends, as several speakers say, on certain unknowns, one of which is the sale of twelve Rafale to Greece, a sale that is not yet signed and which should be signed, unless the Greeks prefer the American F-35 Rafale. How can we ensure that this sale, estimated a priori at 400 million euros, does not undermine the capacity of the air force? Will these EUR 400 million come back to the funds of the Ministry of Defence or will they be shared throughout the state budget? That would reassure us, Madam Minister, that you can guarantee that. However, the purchase of twelve Rafale costs at least 1 billion euros: the loss of profits is therefore at least 600 million euros for this military programming law. In these circumstances, the amendment aims to start reabunding budgets to compensate for this loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u57	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u58	Dear colleague, you wish to transfer EUR 420 million from programme 177, "Preparation and use of forces", to programme 146, "Equipment of forces", for two reasons. First of all, you want the additional costs associated with OPEX to be borne by interdepartmental solidarity, and you thus challenge the principle of provisioning provided for by these additional costs in the LPM. Then, you want to secure the allocation to the Ministry of Armed Forces of the proceeds of the sale of used Rafale to Greece: the answer has just been given, even if the negotiations on this subject are not completely completed. In both cases, I do not believe that your approach is relevant, and I will deliver an unfavourable opinion, in accordance with the opinion expressed in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u60	Mr President, I would like to confirm my commitment to you in committee to compensate the Air and Space Force for the transfer of used aircraft to Greece. In addition, as I mentioned a few moments ago, I also confirm that, in terms of funding, the revenue from the disposal of aircraft belonging to the Air and Space Forces will be offset to the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces, not the general budget, as you expressed concern about it some time ago. Without going back to the structure of your amendment, which guarantees the proposal on external operations and internal missions, I assume it is an appeal, as his summary statement suggests. I hope that the elements I have brought will allow you to remove it. If this were not the case, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u61	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u62	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, I am withdrawing the amendment, and we will see next year what the state of our air and space army is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u63	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1667.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u64	We therefore have, on the one hand, a budgetary programme of EUR 4.12 billion devoted to nuclear deterrence – which is, if I am not mistaken, a cost of around EUR 11 million a day – and, on the other hand, the fact that we still have a great deal to do for the army's small equipment, although progress has been made, as I wrote in my report with Jean-Pierre Cubertafon. Above all, we found a distortion of equipment within the regiments, which may be a problem when the units go into external operations. Hence this proposal, in which I cannot see any appetence for round figures, to increase the amount for nuclear deterrence from EUR 4.12 billion to EUR 4 billion and to allocate EUR 120 million to the various equipment programmes. It is true that this is very complicated, because these sums are distributed among several programmes, with specific interventions in the different corps.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u66	I think, Mr Chassaigne, that you have in fact just defended Amendment No 1668, which must be considered at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u67	But he defended his amendment with great talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u68	President Chassaigne sees far!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u69	If the President allows me to do so, I can give you the Committee's opinion on Amendment No 1668.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u70	Indeed, we will consider that Amendment No 1668 has just been defended. Madam Special Rapporteur, you have the floor to give the committee's opinion on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u71	I join you, my dear President Chassaigne, when you stress the importance of small equipment for the capabilities of the armies. I know that you are very interested in this question: your report is proof of this. I would even add that these small equipments do as much, if not more, for the daily life of our forces as vehicles, infrastructures or heavy weapons, and that they participate in the military condition. Let me reassure you: in this area, things are moving forward. In the 2021 finance bill, the significant effort for small equipment continues, with €423 million in commitment authorizations, an increase of 23%, and 319 million in payment appropriations for this small equipment, which directly benefits soldiers, sailors and airmen. For these reasons, I will, in my personal capacity – since this amendment was not seen in the Finance Committee – express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u73	Like you, Mr Chassaigne, I note and regret that small equipment has been too often forgotten or sacrificed in the past under previous military programming laws, and I thank you for recognizing that an effort has been made in favour of these small equipments since now four financial laws. One of the merits of this military programming law is that it recognizes that a law of programming law is not only big equipment, but that there are small equipment that is absolutely essential to our armies and our soldiers. The President of the Republic wanted a man-made LPM, and this is what this PLF 2021 continues to implement, with a significant effort in favour of means such as clothing, protection effects, small arms, living equipment in the field and combat rations, which determine the conditions for the exercise of the profession of arms of our soldiers. For this reason, within the programme 178, "Preparation and use of forces", expenditure on small equipment has increased by EUR 95 million. In these circumstances, and while agreeing with your remarks, it seems to me that we are trying to respond as much as possible to the need to continue this effort; I would also ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u74	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u75	I thank the rapporteur and the minister for the precise answers they have given me. I therefore withdraw my amendment, but you will have understood that, behind the request for additional appropriations for small equipment, I also wanted to push forward the idea that I would defend a deflation of the very important appropriations granted to nuclear deterrence. One day we will have to ask ourselves this question, because this programme is, as I said, budgetary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u76	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1667.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u77	It concerns the Armed Forces Health Service, the SSA. The members of the Defence Committee will be able to testify that, during the various hearings that we have conducted, whether it is the Chief of Staff or the General of the Armed Health Service, the observation has been made that this military health service, for several exercises – it is not from you, but from far before –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u78	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u79	That's the reality. This service, I said, was very lightened, with the abolition of hospitals, especially Val-de-Grâce, and Bordeaux, in sleep for two years. Above all, the health crisis has revealed that, even if this is not the primary vocation of the army health service, the army is needed, as we see today with Operation Sentinel, in case of a hard blow, including in the case of a health crisis. We saw how difficult it was to set up a field hospital, and we were told that the requirement was to create, not such a hospital that would always be available, but modular structures that could intervene much more quickly. However, I do not think, unless I am shown, that sufficient funds have been made available in this year's budget for this purpose. It is clear from the re-acceleration of the crisis that we will probably still need strong interventions from the military health service, and I am not sure that this service has sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u81	Thank you for this amendment, which allows us to renew the expression of our gratitude to the SSA, for its competence in everything it managed during the crisis. The PLF 2021 foresees a sharp increase in the health function's appropriations, with an increase of €106 million in commitment authorisations, i.e. an increase of 40% and €30 million in payment appropriations, i.e. an increase of 27%. In particular, investments will be strengthened, amounting to €28 million in 2021, to reinvest in health supplies, improve the response to biological risks, develop the digital tools of the SSA and finance capacity development. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be largely satisfactory, and it is not necessary to add the amount you are proposing to us to the important budgetary effort already made. For this reason, and in my personal capacity, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u83	Mr President Chassaigne, I will not go back to the words you had for the military health service and its past, present and probably future contribution to the management of the health crisis. You have acknowledged that we have put an end to the deflation that had been committed many years ago. At the Army Health Service School in Bron, I set out a new perspective for this service, which must now accompany the rise of our armies: it is indispensable. In this PLF 2021, we are starting this movement, since, for both the health infrastructure and the health function of the 178 programme, the appropriations are increasing sharply, by 56% for the infrastructure and 18% for the health function, respectively. In particular, we will spend EUR 31 million on the acquisition of medical equipment and strategic stocks related to the health crisis. Finally, I would like to point out that the payroll of the SSA includes the co-vid premiums received for 2020 and that we will continue to renovate the compensation system for SSA practitioners, in order to strengthen the latter's attractiveness compared to the very strong competition from the private sector. I therefore fully agree with you that the SSA must take a new path: that of renewal, which must enable it to approach its future with confidence and to accompany our soldiers, for whom it constitutes a real life assurance. I therefore invite you, if you agree, to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, I would be unfavorable – but you understand that it would be for reasons that have nothing to do with the subject we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u84	I shall therefore put the amendment to the vote... I'm sorry, minister: what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u85	I do not go back to the words you had to commend the contribution of the military health service, past, present and probably future to the management of the health crisis. You have kindly acknowledged that we have put an end to the deflation of its staff, which was committed many years ago. As I said at the Bron Army School of Health, it is essential to open a new perspective to the military health service, which must now accompany the rise of our armies. The FLP initiates this movement since, whether it is the health infrastructure or the health function of Program 178, there is a significant increase in funding, of 56% for both and 18% for the other. In particular, we will spend EUR 31 million on the acquisition of medical equipment and strategic stocks related to the health crisis. Finally, I would like to point out that the payroll of the SAS includes the co-vid premiums received for 2020 and that we will continue the renovation of the compensation system for SAS practitioners, precisely in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the military health service compared to the very strong one exercised by the private sector. I fully agree with you, it is time for the SSA to take the path of renewal, which must enable it to approach its future with confidence and to accompany our soldiers, for whom it constitutes a real life assurance. I would therefore like you, Mr President, to agree to withdraw your amendment. If not, I will be against it, for reasons you understand well, which have nothing to do with the subject we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u86	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u87	[[Smile]] I found that the chairman of the sitting wanted to vote at all costs... He's acting like a marshal forcing me to get on the front line! If I want to take a second step backwards, I am quite free to do so, hoping that the declarations of intent will be translated into real progress. I therefore also withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u88	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1634.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u89	This amendment could have been the subject of a joint discussion with the one we have just discussed – despite the general movement to withdraw the amendments that seems to be emerging! The exorbitant increase – 79%! – from the appropriations for the "radiation and external contribution" action within the 212 programme, do not leave us to question. We would like to know what this reallocation of €20 million corresponds to – perhaps a communication action? We have just talked about it, the SSA has been subject to many austerity measures, while the needs, far from decreasing, are on the rise and its successes in medical innovation are welcomed. This is why we propose that these 20 million be transferred from Action 66 of Programme 212 to Programme 178, "Preparation and Use of Forces", and more specifically to Action 05, "Logistics and Joint Support", for the benefit of the SSA in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u91	Your amendment is indeed similar to the previous one, except that the amount is ten times less: 20 million against 200 million. The opinion will therefore be the same: unfavourable in a personal capacity. The increase, in your opinion, in the appropriations for Action 66 of the 212 programme is justified by a development of scope. Since 2020, military and civilian personnel made available to the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security by the Ministry of Armed Forces have been accountable to the Ministry in terms of accounting and their remuneration financed from these budgetary appropriations. As a result, Action 66 was amply competitive, which explains the increase of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u93	I would be tempted to give you the same reply as I addressed to President Chassaigne concerning the substance of your statement. It is indeed the military health service, its future, its means and its ability to cope with the future developments of the health crisis that we are currently experiencing. I hope, therefore, that you will not blame me for sticking to the argument I have already made and asking you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u94	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u95	I am concerned about my health: I am considering withdrawing the amendment! If I have understood correctly, the increase in appropriations for the action of "radiation", a misleading term that had called upon us, is justified by a transfer of personnel previously under another direction: it is not intended to finance a communication budget, but is the result of a simple accounting game. In these circumstances, I consider that my amendment is no longer relevant: I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u96	Don't worry about your health, Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u97	[[Smile]] I'm watching, Mr. President! Maybe I'll get tested...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u98	I call Mr Jolivet to support Amendment No. 1752.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u99	The purpose of this amendment is to warn about "new" intelligent textiles – you have, Madam Minister, set up an agency within the ministry to support these innovations. These new textiles are geolocalizable by GPS, thermal footprint and magnetic footprint. This means that other nations are already equipped with this type of equipment. This is why the United States or China have decided to control the conditions of manufacture of fabrics used to make uniforms, tents or to put on vehicle seats, kevlar helmets, etc. All these materials, whether small or large, can indeed be "infected" and thus detectable, becoming targets for our enemies. My colleague Aude Bono-Vandorme and I have drawn the attention of the Minister of the Interior to this matter. In our country, military or security equipment is defined by decree and uniforms, for example, are not classified as such. I know that unlike the Ministry of the Interior, yours buys the pieces of fabric from spinning machines before having them assembled all over the world, without knowing what threads, which buttons are used for this purpose. Beyond its immediate objective, this amendment aims to underline the need to recreate a strategic chain of production of military textiles, as is the case with many countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u100	That's very interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u102	As co-signator of this amendment, my position is a little complicated! I measure the importance of this theme, but I also measure the suddenness of our inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u103	This is a very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u104	If we have to withdraw this appeal amendment, we will withdraw it, but it is a subject that deserves serious consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u106	First of all, I would like to thank all of you for your interest in the need for our forces to have innovative equipment. You know how the comfort and efficiency of our soldiers' equipment are at the heart of my concerns. The latest generation combat outfits and everything related to ballistic protection are made through defence and security markets and their manufacture is reserved for the countries of the European Union. This is particularly the case with combat tissues. The manufacturing market for the new F3 lattice is thus divided into three lots, two of which were won by French companies and the third by a Belgian company. As far as intelligent fabrics are concerned, the Military Police Station works closely with the IDA, the Defence Innovation Agency, and the Directorate-General of the Armed Forces to maintain an active technological watch. Several studies were launched in 2020, at a cost of €1.2 million, and we expect a supplement of €500,000 for 2021. We are, of course, prepared to step up this innovation effort on the basis of the proposals we will make by the French textile industry, in connection with the Ministry of Industry, since this is a dual subject. The issue of safety that you raise is obviously very important. The police station, in connection with the military staff, is necessarily very attentive to any risk in this area. We are looking as much as possible to obtain textiles from French and European suppliers, but I am very much in favour of working together with the French and European manufacturers to examine ways of strengthening what is ultimately an element of sovereignty. I understand and even share your goal; I want you to know that we're going to work on it. I leave you to judge the fate of this amendment, but I would prefer it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u107	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Special Rapporteur, co-signatory to this amendment, having expressed the wish that it should be withdrawn, I, like all previous colleagues, will withdraw it in my turn. However, I note, Madam Minister, that there is no reason why France should distinguish itself from the members of the G20 who consider that the production of these equipment is an act of sovereignty, thus escaping from the free trade agreements, and that a production chain of these new materials worthy of this name must be recreated in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u109	[[Smile]] I'm gonna end up asking for copyright!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u110	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1742.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u111	Pursuant to an order of 18 September 1964, the Canjuers garrison is not included in the list of camps and localities eligible for the application of a special rate of military expense allowance, ICM. The military personnel assigned to them are therefore not eligible for a "camp premium" despite their objective isolation. It is high time to revise this dated garrison list. This is the appeal that Mr.Matras, Member of Parliament for the riding, and I myself make to the minister with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u113	I believe, dear colleague, that you have not defended the right amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u114	That is what I also think: I therefore consider that you have defended Amendment No 1735, Mrs Mauborgne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u115	As far as the Canjuers garrison is concerned, I understand your concern, but I believe that the reform of the military compensation policy will soon bring these issues to a close and bring about a solution to this problem. Pending this reform, I will personally give a wise opinion on this amendment which has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u117	This amendment raises the general issue of the new policy on compensation for military personnel – the NPRM – and of the in-depth overhaul of very complicated compensation systems that sometimes result in situations that are difficult to explain and understand. This PLF is laying the foundation stone of the NPRM for 2021, but we are going to recast all the bonuses and allowances to improve the military condition; The military expense allowance will itself be reviewed for all members, and I have no reason to consider that only those of Canjuers would be excluded. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u118	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u119	Indeed, the pay system is sometimes difficult to understand and explain; He may also be unfair. However, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u120	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1742.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u121	Essential to the maintenance in condition of the ground materials of the three armies and, at the same time, to the realization of the operational contract as to the preparation of the forces, the site of Moulins, in the Allier, is the main logistics center and storage of the replacements of ground materials. It has seventy-five very heterogeneous buildings and for the most part very old buildings, to the point of having been sanctioned by several non-compliance balances since 2014. The general control of the armies – CGA – sent a reminder to the law concerning the sending and receiving centre, then a formal notice in 2017. On 3 September last, the CGA conducted a new inspection which could lead to a decision to cease operations. Depending on the project selected, the need for funding is estimated to be between €60 million and €80 million. The Minister will no doubt be able to confirm that a request for funding has been made as part of the recovery plan; It is all the more legitimate since the renovation projects of the site are all aimed at preserving local employment by guaranteeing the maintenance of the new warehouses in Moulins. At this stage, however, this funding is still uncertain and, in any event, may be only partial. Given the intensity of our external operations and the threats on the national territory, not to mention the risks to our strategic supplies that the health crisis has highlighted, the renovation of the logistics and storage capacities of the armies is urgent. Accordingly, it is proposed to allocate EUR 80 million to Action 67 of Programme 212 from 2021 to the sub-action "Land Infrastructure" of Programme 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u123	At a recent hearing, I was confirmed the seriousness of the situation at the central warehouse in Moulins, as well as the urgency of remedying it. The maintenance of ground operating conditions and, by extension, our operations may ultimately suffer from mismanagement. That is why I am co-signing your amendment, dear colleague. I am aware that the renovation of the warehouse could also benefit from funding under the recovery plan, but I prefer to give an opinion of wisdom on this amendment which the Committee on Finance has not considered, in order to ensure that the means will not be lacking to provide an effective response to this emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u125	You are right, Member, the Moulins site is very important for the logistical supply of our armies to external operations and its condition warrants a major renovation. I do not go back to the fact that, like small equipment, infrastructure has been the subject of major stalemate in previous programming laws; It is up to us to remedy this and that is what we are doing with a sharp increase in the budget for 2021, since the amount of appropriations dedicated to terrestrial infrastructure almost doubles in commitment authorizations. This should improve the maintenance of the reception, storage and maintenance infrastructure for equipment and spare parts in the army. As for the Moulins site, it has to undergo heavy renovations for an amount of 63 million euros. The timetable for this absolutely necessary operation naturally exceeds the year 2021 alone. We have tabled a project to ensure that this renovation is part of the recovery plan, given its significant economic benefits and its environmental dimension. I can assure you that whatever happens, the Moulins site will be upgraded. In these circumstances, I would like the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u126	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Mauborgne?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u127	Yes, thanking the Minister for all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u128	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1635.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u129	This amendment concerns the Themis cell. The Ministry of Armed Forces received the professional equality label from AFNOR Certification in January 2020 and intends to obtain the diversity label in 2021; That's good news. This PLF adds additional recruitment to the Themis cell, which would increase its staff to six for the entire army. Problem: Between 2017 and 2019, the number of files increased by 94% – this increase, on the other hand, is not a bad thing in itself; It is even a good news that bears witness to the appropriation of the tool and to the release of the simultaneous speech of the general movement of society. In addition, the scope of the cell will be expanded, in accordance – I can only satisfy myself – with proposal No. 53 that Mr Lejeune and I made in our 2019 report. However, we believe that it is necessary to increase the number of staff in the Themis cell in order to respond to the influx of demands. I can only recall the tragedy that occurred in October when a 21-year-old man committed suicide with his service weapon in the barracks of the 8th RPIMa in Castres. I am not anticipating the findings of the ongoing investigation, but the reality is that the accompaniment of the outstanding soldiers can and must be further improved. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u131	Dear colleague, I would like to remind you of the record, as we had during the long debate on this subject in the Finance Committee: 180 relay trainers were trained in 2019 and 3000 managers were sensitized and trained in turn 45,000 agents in 2019. The entire chain of command was therefore made aware of the prevention of harassment. For information, the Themis cell was seized 143 times in 2019, and this number is expected to fall this year to around 100 – for six agents, therefore. A first assessment of the adequacy of resources and missions will be conducted next summer. Opinion against this slightly amended amendment since its consideration in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u133	You are dealing with an essential question, Mr. Member, as evidenced by the report you have drawn up with Mr. Lejeune. I share your concern that combating harassment in all its forms, discrimination and sexual violence is a priority of the Ministry of Armed Forces. Like you, I consider the increase in the number of referrals, which is in fact due to the release of speech and to the improvement of the training of agents, of which tens of thousands have been trained thanks to the relay trainers. As I undertook last year, the Themis cell has been strengthened and a single reporting mechanism covering both sexual and gender-based harassment and moral harassment will be created by the end of the year; I thank the parliamentarians who have multiplied the proposals to improve the functioning of the Themis cell. Finally, the funds allocated to the unit in 2021 increased by 7 per cent compared with the previous finance law, an increase which appeared in the 212 programme and not the 178 programme. I therefore propose that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u134	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u135	Madam Special Rapporteur, Minister, thank you for your clarification. Everyone must be aware that the fight against discrimination and harassment in the armed forces is a central subject, not only to respond to the air of time but also for operational reasons: it helps to improve the functioning of the armed forces and to facilitate the necessary expansion of recruitment. You fulfilled the commitments made last year, Minister. I hope that we will go even further and withdraw the amendment in that hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u136	They've changed us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u137	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1043 and 1042, which can be presented together. Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u138	Since all the amendments have been withdrawn one after the other, I shall try to be brief. Amendment No 1043 aims to abound the funds allocated for recruitment into the army by EUR 6.7 million, even though I know that the first lever for recruitment is in the form of compensation policy, which I understand the Minister is committed to revising as soon as possible. Amendment No 1042 is no doubt inspired by my group's long experience as a government: it is a precautionary amendment which aims to increase the gas supply allocated to the armies by 5% in order to deal with the uncertainties that weigh on the price of oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u139	You didn't have to cut the budget when you were in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u141	First of all, with regard to the attractiveness of military occupations in the army, the recruitment target was 16,600 candidates in 2021. The army will have to address its deficit, which was only 950 in August, and which seems to be 500 by the end of the year – which is very low. Attractiveness is a priority of the Army, which provides itself with the necessary resources. I don't come back on the accommodation plan, the family plan, the high school plan; the minister has deployed exceptional means to strengthen the attractiveness of this army and progress is rapid. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u143	As far as recruitment is concerned, I can only confirm the statement of the Special Rapporteur: despite the crisis and the confinement of the spring, the Ministry of Armed Forces and the recruitment services have put double bites to make up for the delay. We are pretty confident that we will be able to achieve the recruitments planned for 2020 by the end of the year – that is, in two months' time – despite the difficulties we have faced, and I take a big hit on recruitment services. This development is also due to another phenomenon: the crisis has changed individual decisions. Some of our personnel, who had planned to leave the army in 2020, have finally made a different choice, certainly to take into account less favourable economic prospects than a few months ago. On the other hand, with regard to the precautionary amendment that you are proposing, which tends to increase the resources for our fuel supplies, I believe that we are pursuing as cautious a policy as possible. A provision of the military programming law allows us to have a safeguard clause in the event of a sharp increase in the price of oil. Of course, in a few months, the economic situation can change, but we are now in a period of low oil prices. We therefore consider that the provision that has been made corresponds to our needs and, at this stage, we do not believe that we need this additional means to supply our armies with petrol and petroleum products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u144	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u145	Although the minister did not ask me to do so, I withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u146	In order to be pleasant to Mr Marilossian, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, of all the appropriations for the Defence Mission, I am seized by the La République en marche group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1376.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u147	Madam Minister, you are well aware of the delicate subject of this amendment, which the centrist parliamentarians of the Pacific – Philippe Dunoyer, Philippe Gomès and Gérard Poadja for New Caledonia, Nicole Sanquer for Polynesia – have already seized on several occasions: the extension to overseas communities of the military installation premium. Indeed, since Polynesia and New Caledonia are important recruitment pools for the army and gendarmerie, many of the officers of these bodies wonder why they do not receive the installation allowance received by their colleagues in Martinique, Réunion or Mahorais under the decree of 6 October 1950. Since it had not yet been extended to New Caledonia and Polynesia, it excluded agents originating in the Pacific from the premium. You will agree, however, that the young soldiers in the Pacific are making significant personal sacrifices, since many, if they are unable to finance their arrival, leave their families in the country. Discrimination against them is unjustifiable on the basis of the principle of equality, a principle of constitutional value, which is far superior to law and regulation. The wealth of appropriations proposed by the amendment is thus intended to anticipate the amendment that you wish to make to the above-mentioned decree, in order to restore equal treatment among all soldiers in the French army, regardless of their origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u149	Having not received an answer to the questions I have asked on this subject, I will let the minister, who knows him perfectly, answer you. I'll make it up to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u151	Let me remind you in a few words of the situation. A decree of 1950, which applies to the military of Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique and La Réunion, grants, under certain conditions, a specific installation premium to the officials of the State and to the magistrates of the overseas departments assigned for the first time to Île-de-France or to the Lille metropolis. Under the rule of law, the settlement grant is not available to military personnel, civil servants of the State or magistrates of the three ultramarine communities in the Pacific Ocean. There is therefore a need to amend existing regulations. Personally, I am very much in favour of adapting the compensation scheme you are calling for. But for that to happen, we must be able to review the compensation overall, regardless of the ultramarine territory concerned. In this sense, my services have seized the Ministry of Transformation and Public Service, as well as the Ministry of Public Accounts. We are working on a positive follow-up to this issue in the broader context of the new policy on military compensation that I mentioned earlier. In view of the work in progress, which has not yet been completed, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u152	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u153	I would like to explain why I will maintain the amendment, of which I am merely a co-signatory. Even if I am not at the origin, I will recall its history. Our colleague from Polynesia, Nicole Sanquer, had already raised this problem in the 2020 budget debate, drawing the attention of the Overseas Minister, Annick Girardin, to this injustice – that is the term she used. The latter had acknowledged that this was indeed an injustice; She replied that she was at the side of our colleague, but that it was up to the minister of armies to provide an answer, because it required a general review of the military compensation regime – which you explained. In February 2019, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, Ms Geneviève Darrieussecq, had already provided a first response, explaining that the amendment of the allowance was only possible as part of a more comprehensive overhaul. Nicole Sanquer, who would have liked the amendment to take place as early as the 2020 budget, had been assured in 2019 that it would be included in the budget for 2021. That is why I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u154	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u155	I understand that our colleague supports the amendment, because it is quite regrettable that the only answer to it is that the new policy on compensation for the military will provide it with answers. We'll talk about it later, but the problem is that we don't know anything about this new policy on military compensation. You asked us to vote in the budget to create a premium with an overall budget of EUR 38 million, but in reality we do not know the second, the third, the fourth phase of this policy. It is therefore a little complicated to hear that the answer will come later, even as we are already voting for the introduction of this new compensation policy – which, moreover, is a source of concern for all of our military.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u156	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u157	I fully understand the questions about the new policy on military compensation. It is just beginning in 2021, the first stage concerning geographical mobility, which I have already mentioned. But I assure you, Mr Lachaud: as part of the committee work, we will have the opportunity to deal broadly with the substance of this overall reform. As far as the amendment is concerned, I maintain what has just been said: I would like injustice to be remedied under the new policy on the remuneration of the military, but, as you will understand, we cannot deal with the salaries of the military, regardless of those of the other officials. It is for this reason that I need to seize and obtain the agreement of the Department of Transformation and Public Service and the Department of Public Accounts. We understand each other, we know where we want to go: now we have to go through this stage of the interdepartmental agreement. When it is concluded, we will be able to translate it into the new military compensation policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u158	Amendment No 1735 was defended and withdrawn earlier. I put to the vote the appropriations of the Defence Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u159	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 39 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u160	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1630.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u161	We have already dealt with this subject. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u162	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1632.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u163	It tends to request a report on the operation and missions of DICOD – delegation to the information and communication of the defence. In the debate in the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur wanted me to amend my amendment, which I have done with pleasure: beyond its organisation and functioning, the report requested would also deal with the action and efficiency of DICOD. It brings together 1,600 people, as noted in the excellent report by our excellent colleague Claude de Ganay, which opens up opportunities that deserve to be explored. In particular, he referred to the overlap of missions between DICOD and the SGA – General Secretariat for Administration – and raised the issue of the civilization of the delegation. There are two other subjects, which the Special Rapporteur François Cornut-Gentille mentioned: on the one hand, the psychosocial risks within the service, on the other – and this is historical – a communication from the association of defence journalists, which denounces a dysfunction of the parolat holder and exceptional difficulties within the management. In view of the number of officials attached to it and the problems that arise in the public sphere, I believe that a report is indispensable and would help to remove any doubts that may exist about the functioning of this directorate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u165	Read Claude de Ganay's report for advice on joint support and logistics, the third part of which is dedicated to the communication of the Ministry of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u166	I read it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u167	Talk to him about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u168	It's already done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u169	...and, if you still don't have your answers, we'll see. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u171	Mr. Lachaud, we all agree that the communications department of the Ministry of the Armed Forces and DICOD, like all the departments of the Ministry of the Armed Forces, are destined to make progress in order to render a better service. Parliamentary work has been carried out on this issue. The adaptation of DICOD is one of the objectives that we have set ourselves. On the other hand, I have already had the opportunity to say that, as a matter of principle, I am not in favour of increasing the number of requests for reports in the context of the budgetary debate. It's a matter of procedure. On the substance, yes, we must continue to make progress; on the form, I think you are presenting an appeal amendment, but your request for a report is not intended to be adopted in the PLF – on this as on many others. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u172	Mr Claude de Ganay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u173	I would like to clarify to Mr Lachaud, whom I thank for highlighting the important thematic part of my report for its opinion. I think it would be desirable for him to ask the chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces to set up an information mission. I will of course support his request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u174	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u175	If this request is supported by the chairman of the committee, I will be happy to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u176	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u177	I think this is an interesting question. I take note of your request, which we will discuss at the next Bureau meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u178	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u179	Thank you. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u180	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1695.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u181	I am sorry, Madam Minister, but this is again a request for a report. This is the game of budgetary debates, the only freedom that Article 40 of the Constitution leaves us: do not deprive us of it! This request for a report relates to the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Egypt and Bahrain. These exports violate France's obligations as a signatory to the arms trade treaty. These countries violate international law and human rights, either by targeting civilian targets, such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in Yemen; using mercenaries, such as Turkey in Libya and Nagorno-Karabakh or the United Arab Emirates in Libya and Yemen; or by suppressing opposition movements, thanks to French equipment, for example the Arquus vehicles in Egypt. There is a real problem of political opportunity in France's partnerships with states that are today factors of destabilization and resort to force in a somewhat disinhibited way. In 2018, during the examination of the military programming bill, we asked that in the report appended to the text, Turkey be one of the powers that could cause concern, as well as China or Russia. You refused. Maybe you're aware of your mistake today. In October 2019, Madam Minister, during the Turkish invasion in northern Syria, you announced with a tweet the suspension of "any plan to export war materials to Turkey that could be used as part of the offensive". As a result, I have sent you a written question: I have received a very vague answer after a year, which does not specify whether this suspension concerns all the materials or only those that would have been usable in Syria. These are 500 licences! The response of your services, therefore yours, also refers to the fact that some industrialists have challenged this measure, but we do not know whether they have been successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u182	Thank you, Mr. Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u183	This report would not be duplicative, since the annual report of the Ministry of Armed Forces on France's arms exports refers to licences for the various categories of weapons, but not to equipment actually delivered. That is why we believe it is essential in order to dispel the doubts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u185	You are requesting a report from the Government on arms transfers to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Bahrain and Turkey. First of all, it should be remembered that arms exports to any country are the subject of a detailed report from the department to Parliament every year. Exports to a country engaged in a conflict or showing hostility towards France must of course be subject to discussion; But Parliament and the Assembly's Defence Committee are precisely there for this debate to take place, without the need for a new report. My personal opinion will therefore be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u187	With regard to arms exports, France respects a number of criteria and has strict and rigorous controls. We have the opportunity to address these issues each year in our consideration of the report. Of course, all this is all the more true vis-à-vis countries actively involved in conflict. Like all its partners, France remains particularly attentive to the geopolitical situation in the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean. Exports, under arms contracts, to the countries you mentioned – Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates – amounted in 2019 to 2 billion euros: this is 25% less than the average of the last ten years. Having said that, I would add that these exports contribute to the national economy, both in terms of employment and in terms of trade balance. That doesn't mean you have to do things any way. But in view of the scrupulous controls I have mentioned, we must not forget, in this period of recovery plan, that they allow arms manufacturers to preserve this industrial and technological base of French defence, which guarantees our autonomy. As far as the information provided to Parliament is concerned, a report is drawn up every year: I try every year to find rich information there. Every year, over the past three years, we have made improvements. The result certainly remains imperfect, but we are trying to make progress towards transparency. This is indeed the subject of an important, useful democratic debate; Every Frenchman must be able to have in mind all the stakes involved in this question. For all these reasons, I am not inclined to create an additional report; I will not surprise you with an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u188	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u189	The minister did not provide me with the answers I asked for, particularly with regard to Turkey. It now poses a threat to our armed forces, to peace in the region, to our Greek ally, even though it is our ally in NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We measure the complexity of the subject at hand: to deal with it with the seriousness it requires, we would have to have all the elements, which unfortunately is not the case. In view of your refusal to accept this report, which would provide us with it, I am maintaining my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u190	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u191	Mr. Lachaud's request is superfectory. I do not know if we need an additional report; It is true that the Assembly has dispatched two of our colleagues, Mr Jacques Maire and Mrs Michèle Tabarot, to work on these matters. They have been doing this for more than a year, and most likely they will submit their report before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u192	I call Mr Cornut-Gentille to support Amendment No. 1269.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u193	Once again, this is an appeal amendment, consisting of a request for a report; It's due to Mansour Kamardine. You are aware of the strategic importance of Mayotte and the Mozambique Canal. My colleague Mansour Kamardine is concerned to strengthen the French presence, the presence of our navy, in this region. In particular, it supports the idea of transferring our naval base from Dzaoudzi to Longoni: this would allow much stronger, therefore larger, draught vessels to stop there, and perhaps the assignment in this area of a new generation patroller. He would like both to raise your awareness of this issue, which is probably very much in your mind, and to hear your reaction to this idea of developing a new port so that larger vessels of the National Navy can patrol in this strategic area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u195	Mr Cornut-Gentille, you spoke directly to the minister: perhaps it would be up to her to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u197	Be sure that we have in mind the stakes of the southern Indian Ocean: the fight against illegal immigration by sea to Mayotte, against illegal exploration of gas and oil in the Mozambique Canal, or even marine protected areas are high on our priorities. This is a comprehensive policy, which must be perceived and analysed as such; However, reading the various budgetary programmes does not make it possible to grasp the whole of what we are doing. The law of 13 July 2018 on military programming has taken these priorities into account, in particular by strengthening and renewing the patrolling component of our overseas sovereignty forces, in order to better exercise our sovereignty in our exclusive economic zone – EEZ. I will not repeat here the long list, detailed in committee, of patrollers who have already been delivered or are about to be delivered. With regard to the development of a new port, I will humbly confess to you that I have no idea how much investment is needed, so it would be extremely difficult for me to answer this evening. Of course, I undertake to inquire about this and to reply to you later, if you will.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u198	Mr. François Cornut-Gentille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u199	That was exactly the purpose of this amendment, minister: therefore, thank you and I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u200	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1631.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u201	Since the beginning of this budget debate, we have been talking a lot about the new policy on military compensation, the NPRM. We see a piece of it: 30 million euros for the creation of a mobility bonus. It is paradoxical to sausage it in this way, and to ask us to adopt it without having an overall view of it. In the absence of such a vision, we ask for a report within nine months in order to follow the opinion of the Special Rapporteur, who felt that three months were too short. The objective of this report is not the unveiling of a finished, frozen and definitive work, but at least the presentation of this project, its philosophy, the tracks studied, so that we can see where we are going. This reform is considered fundamental for our armies, for their attractiveness, for fighting early departures; In addition, it comes after the Louvois disaster, the sole joint pay software. It must be the subject of a transparent discussion in this House, or at least in committee. Obtaining the broad guidelines of the NPRM is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u203	Once again, my colleague, you have taken account of our debates in committee: I am grateful to you. However, I will give an unfavorable opinion, because this report is not necessary. I am confident that we will receive this information as soon as the elements of the project are consolidated. In addition, the philosophy and framework of the NPRM are already well known, with a reorganization of the compensation part of the balance around three blocks and eight devices each paying a single hardship. This should be sufficient for you to form an opinion pending the details of each element of this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u205	This NPRM was announced during the review of the military programming bill; It is also annexed to this text. It is a very large-scale work that has been carried out: I would remind you that in ten years, two attempts to simplify the balance have failed. Without wanting to turn the knife in the wound, Louvois's fiasco is still in all minds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u206	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u207	All of this demonstrates an excessive complexity of the pay system, which makes it unreadable and has in the past led to errors in the calculation of balances. Reform is therefore essential. We have worked on a simpler and more readable system, but also better suited to today's social issues. There is indeed much archaism in regulatory sedimentation that has accumulated over the years. We have now completed the overall architecture of the NPRM with great care. Its implementation will be gradual and will be accompanied by substantial budgetary resources, which will appear, for the most part, from 2022 and 2023. I hoped that a first step could be implemented by 2021, in advance of the phase, to deal with the really priority topic of geographical mobility. In any event, I repeat what I said earlier: I am at the disposal of the National Assembly, its Defence Committee and Parliament to present the outline of this new policy at the beginning of the year. I fully understand that you would like to have a full presentation of it, even if certain elements will be clarified at a later stage. I therefore fully understand the intention of the amendment and am ready to answer your questions as soon as you invite me to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u208	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u209	Thank you, Minister. Again, if the chairman of the Defence Committee wishes to invite the minister to make this presentation, I will gladly withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u210	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u211	The Commission has been following very closely for a long time, especially since the beginning of the year, the subject of military pensions. It had also submitted its opinion on the draft law establishing a universal pension system. She also interviewed the Director of Human Resources of the Ministry of Defence and on 4 November she will be hearing the Chairman of the High Military Condition Assessment Committee on military retirement pensions. We will welcome the Minister at the beginning of the year for clarification at the beginning of our work on this subject; We will have the means to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u212	I have before me four amendments, Nos 1044, 1045, 1046 and 1048, which can be presented together. Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u213	Amendment No 1044 concerns a request for a report on improvements in the logistics coordination between the use of personnel and the use of equipment, taking into account the constraints existing within the armies of land, air and the navy, i.e. the difficulties encountered in obtaining training time due to the unavailability of equipment due in particular to external operations – OPEX. Amendment No 1045 calls for a report on weaknesses in the operational readiness of the armed forces, particularly the army. The draftsman of the Defence Committee's opinion in 2019 had thus indicated that the level of operational readiness had suddenly collapsed since 2015, for two main reasons: the operational over-commitment on OPEX and Operation Sentinel at the internal level. He estimated at the time that the equivalent of one year of training had been lost in total, with lasting consequences for certain know-how. In order to remedy this situation, which could lead to loss of competence, it would be desirable for these difficulties to be analysed and recommendations made to Parliament. Amendment No 1046 also concerns the submission of a report, this time on the evaluation of France's equipment policy, in particular as regards its costs compared with those of its European allies in NATO. The aim is to learn more about the implementation of this policy. In a period that requires significant effort, it is healthy that public money be used intelligently, and a comparison is never completely useless. Finally, Amendment No 1048 calls for the submission of a fourth report on the evaluation of European cooperation programmes in the defence sector – a title sufficient to clarify the meaning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u215	The first report requested concerns a very interesting subject of reflection, but it seems to me to be a task for Parliament to monitor, given its precise analytical dimension. I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion. For the second report, which is the subject of Amendment No 1045, I will give you the same answer as in committee: this request already seems to me to be largely satisfied with the budget documentation, in particular indicator 5.1 on the level of implementation of training activities, attached to programme 178. With regard to ways to improve operational readiness, it seems to me that the regular hearings of the Chief of Staff, the Minister and the Chiefs of Staff of each army by the Defence Commission are sufficiently enlightening. Unfavorable opinion. As for the third report requested, the subject matter is of course important, but it is also extremely broad and, in my view, more of the ongoing monitoring and evaluation task of the Defence and Armed Forces Committee. Opinion against Amendment No 1046. As for the last amendment, I shall give an unfavourable opinion, as in committee. I believe that our Assembly will soon provide you with the elements you are looking for. The Committee on European Affairs and the Defence Committee have set up a joint working group on European defence. The first fact-finding mission has just been launched, with Natalia Pouzyreff and Michèle Tabarot as rapporteur. It deals with permanent structured cooperation, the object of which is precisely cooperation on common European defence projects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u216	What is the Government's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u217	These amendments address important issues. Given the late hour, I do not know what format to give to my answers; I will nevertheless try to be synthetic. With regard to the coordination between the use of personnel and the use of equipment, which is the subject of the first amendment, I would like to stress that we pay very important attention to the increase in the operational activity of our armies, which is one of the objectives of the military programming law. One way to achieve this is to reform the maintenance in operational condition – MCO: in order for our soldiers to train, the equipment they need must be available. Before considering investment programmes for new equipment, it is very important to ensure that the equipment at our disposal is properly operated. I come to the second amendment, to stress that I pay close attention to the MCO programmes. We have embarked on a reform of the operational condition in all three environments, first in aeronautics, then in naval equipment and finally in ground equipment. I am pleased to see, after three years of effort, the very first results; things are not yet perfect, but efforts are beginning to bear fruit. Finally, operational readiness also requires the availability of small equipment, as we had the opportunity to mention during this debate. The finance bill for 2021 is continuing its efforts in this area. The third amendment deals with a completely different issue, that of France's contribution to the Organization of the Atlantic Alliance. I will not mention the military aspects, but rather, I believe, the question of the budgetary angle. France is a good student of NATO: it is the third contributor to its budget. Finally, European cooperation programmes are a topical issue: France's commitment to such programmes has been firmly enshrined in the law on military programming. We have made the determined, determined and courageous choice to launch two structural programmes for our forces, the battle tank of the future on the one hand, and the air combat system of the future on the other, in cooperation with our German partners – and, as far as the air combat system is concerned, also with our Spanish partner. It is a radical change in paradigm, totally assumed and perfectly in line with our objective of strengthening European cooperation and defence Europe. It is in this sense that we are acting within the framework of the European Intervention Initiative and within the framework of the European Union's permanent structured cooperation policies; France is thus participating in 36 projects out of the forty-six that have been selected. It is also in this sense that we have promoted the European Defence Fund, which we can only be satisfied with the creation of, despite the difficulties associated with the arbitrations that presided over the Multiannual Financial Framework this summer. A total of 7 billion European funds will accompany this European cooperation policy. I would also like to take advantage of this amendment in response to an inquiry earlier in the debate. It is true that Franco-British cooperation must continue. The treaty of Lancaster House will soon be ten years old. We could have feared that this cooperation would be held back by Brexit, but that is not the case: there is a common political will to move it forward. We will continue it in 2021. I've been both too fast and not fast enough; I'm sorry about that. However, I am prepared to resume this discussion at a later stage, in committee or in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u218	Mr Faure, do you maintain these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u219	I'm withdrawing them, Mr. President. Everyone will have understood that these were appeal amendments, which were not intended to open a debate at this late hour. Indeed, each of these topics would merit further discussion. It was a matter of drawing the attention of both the minister and the commission, so that these subjects could be closely monitored and discussed again at the next meetings of the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u220	I call the credits for the "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" mission, listed in Statement B. We, ladies and gentlemen, have more than 20 amendments to consider on this mission. I propose that we do so in a dynamic and concise manner. Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support Amendment No. 1753.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u221	The aim of this amendment is to increase the allocations for the 169 "Recognition and Reparation for the Fighting World" programme by 38 million euros, to partially offset the decrease in appropriations due to the annual decrease in the administration of the living debt, which amounts to almost 80 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u222	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u223	So we are going to discuss these issues in the early morning, since we are already tomorrow! Colleagues, I regret, like you, that the reduction of EUR 79 million in the budget of programme 169 "Recognition and reparation for the fighting world" is not accompanied by any new and substantial adjustments or measures in favour of the fighting world, while the amounts of the military disability pension – PMI – and the veteran's pension are stagnating. I am therefore personally in favour of this amendment, which has not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u225	Yes, the budget for this program is down as it is every year, and you know the reason, namely the demographic attrition of the fighting world. This fall is this year of EUR 69 million, or 3.4%, compared with an average of EUR 100 million for many years, which is therefore lower than in previous years. I am very pleased to have been able to present you with a willing and sincere budget, which takes into account all the rights that have always been open, but also all the new rights opened since 2017, and which is still introducing new measures this year – so the surviving spouses of great war invalids will be able to benefit from an additional 5300 euros per year. We are gradually moving forward, trying to remember no one and taking into account both youth and memory, which is a particularly important part. For these two reasons, I express an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u226	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u227	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President, although I would have preferred to speak before the Minister gave the opinion of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u228	I would remind you that in the context of the budget debate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and the Government deliver an opinion before you have the opportunity to speak for yourself as chairman of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u229	I am totally against this amendment, because I believe that the Government has made a considerable effort. Of course, the budget for the program is down, but it is only 3.4 per cent, while the overall budget is 7 per cent, so it is not proportional to the overall decline, which is a clear indication of the Minister's effort to continue to support our veterans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u230	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1677.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u231	I have never doubted the good intentions of the Minister and the Chair of the Defence Committee, and I have noted that this budget includes progress, including an increase in the appropriations for the renovation of monuments. What I am asking for with this amendment is not to allocate the natural decrease in appropriations in its entirety, but to raise the fighter's pension by one point from 1 January 2021, which represents an annual sum of EUR 9.2 million, whereas the natural decrease in appropriations is EUR 15 million between 2020 and 2021. As you can see, my proposal is very measured because I am not proposing to take over all of these funds, but only a part: it is simply a question of showing veterans that we are taking into account a legitimate claim that they have expressed for a long time. I would point out, however, that despite the arguments I have put forward in my personal capacity, the committee has delivered an opinion which is not favourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u232	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u233	Since 1 January 2020, the value of the military disability pension point – PMI – is EUR 14.68, while the veteran's pension is EUR 763.36 for the year: it has reached this amount after receiving a 65 % gradual increase since 2006, when it was only EUR 463.40. This increase may seem significant, but it will be discussed in the tripartite committee we will be discussing earlier, because it may be linked to the development of the point. The total cost of the one-point increase you are proposing is not EUR 9.2 million, but EUR 12.3 million per year. Rather than increasing the fighter's pension by €1.22 per month, as you ask, the government has made the choice to extend the fighter's pension access thanks to card 62-64, which benefits an additional 37,000 people – when it was put in place, we estimated that it had up to 50,000 potential beneficiaries. We preferred to target the most vulnerable people, rather than take general measures that proved to be insignificant. Of course, on a symbolic level, a revalorisation is not without importance for the fighting world, but the retreat of the fighter is already increasing every year according to the indexation increase of the PMI point, and the increase of one point that you propose would only amount to 14 euros per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u234	Since you are asking me again, Mr Dufrègne, I will give it to you, but I remind you that we are already beyond the time at which the sitting should have ended, and I invite you all to be concise in your speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u235	Mr. Chair, the Mission "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" is an important mission. In any case, its importance should not be judged according to the time at which we examine it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u237	All the missions discussed in the finance bill are important, but the National Assembly's rules apply to each of them. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u238	I want to say to the minister that if an increase of one point does not seem to her to be significant enough, we can always do more! I, who regularly attend the general meetings of veterans, can assure you that for them the sum of 15 euros per year is not negligible: every year I see them discussing at length whether the amount of the annual contribution should, for example, increase from 8 euros to 8,50 euros... Of course, the proposed increase is in the order of the symbol, but let us not forget that we are talking about a recognition allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u239	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u240	I would point out that, at the last hearing by the Defence Committee, the Minister undertook that we would be able to undertake a substantive reflection on this subject within the working group that is planned to be set up, which will include the G12 of the associations, as well as a representative of the Senate and a representative of the National Assembly. It therefore seems premature to take a decision on this point, especially since this amendment has not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u241	Yes, he was!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u242	Not in the Defence Committee, anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u243	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1392 and 1493. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1392.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u244	The purpose of my amendment is to increase the fighter's retirement index by two points, to 54 points. To the extent that the Government has just declared itself against an increase in the index by one point, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u245	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor to support Amendment No. 1493.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u246	This appeal amendment, which we propose each year, aims to increase the fighter's retirement index by two points, which would increase that index to 54 points. This represents a very moderate effort in view of the demographic attrition of the fighting world, and a measure that could be implemented without difficulty – we can find the corresponding money. I hear the argument made by the chairman of the committee on the establishment of the tripartite committee, but as our group is not associated with it, you will understand that we are not sensitive to this argument and that we are maintaining our amendment. We believe that the retirement of combatants should benefit from regular increases rather than from gradual progress in the light of electoral deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u248	To be pleasant to you, Mr. Chairman, I am not going to repeat the arguments I made a few moments ago. I personally support this amendment, which has not been discussed in committee and which, I would remind you, provides for a two-point increase in the combatant's pension index, with effect from 1 July 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u249	You're always nice to me, Mr. Dufrègne... What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u250	As I said in connection with the previous amendment, this is a general measure which, contrary to what you say, represents an important sum, without improving the situation of each veteran. The Government has chosen to improve the special situation of the most fragile and to work to reduce inequities, in particular through the introduction of Map 62-64, which has benefited a large number of veterans who, before that, did not receive the veteran's pension. Your amendment would have the effect of reducing the appropriations for the "Armed Link-Youth" action by 33%, which you probably do not want, because it would make it very difficult to carry out a mission that is at the heart of the armed link-Nation. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u251	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1386.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u252	It aims to increase the number of young people admitted to voluntary military service to 1700, which is a real success. While the budget provides for an increase in its beneficiaries, we believe that it could be further scaled up in order to help the most fragile section of our youth, whose difficulties are likely to worsen with the current crisis. Last year, you said, Madam Deputy Minister, that the 2.5 million euros entered in the budget were sufficient to finance the reception of 1500 young people, since the regiments of voluntary military service had entered into agreements with the regional councils, which financed a large part of the formations. Our amendment proposes an increase of 1.25 million in action 01 "Armed-Youth Links" of programme 167 "Links between the nation and its army", which would allow for an additional 200 young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u254	You propose to increase the target for the incorporation of voluntary military service to 1,700 young people in 2021, instead of 1200 in 2020, and to increase accordingly the budget for Action 01 "Armed-Youth Links" of the 167 "Links between the Nation and its Army" by 1.25 million euros. This scheme has shown very good results, and it achieves two laudable objectives: to respond to the difficulties of recruiting the army and to integrate young people without training or jobless into working life. This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u256	As you pointed out, voluntary military service is a real success: it has trained 3,650 young people between 2015 – the date of its creation – and 2019; It has an integration rate of 75%, well above the targets, and benefits a predominantly non-graduate audience. In 2021, we planned to increase from 1000 to 1200 volunteers. This increase is calibrated on the accommodation and supervision capabilities of the existing regiments – there is no question, in fact, of creating a new regiment for this purpose. The rise in power of the device shall be gradual and the necessary adaptations shall be made. Training institutions and almost all regions participate in the financing of training provided under voluntary military service. This budget provides €3 million in appropriations for this action, an increase of €500,000 over the previous year. This amount is largely sufficient to finance the new objective. In 2022, together with Mrs Parly, we set out to welcome 1,500 young people on voluntary military service. We must move forward in a gradual, gradual and controlled manner, in agreement with the services. We cannot raise the number of beneficiaries to 1700 now: this would not be possible materially. Note that voluntary military service benefits from the European Social Fund, proof that it has its full place in the policy of integration. My view is unfavorable because, once again, the rise in power of the device must be gradual.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u257	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u258	In view of the arguments just put forward by the Minister-in-Charge, I shall withdraw the amendment. It is important to welcome young people in good conditions, in a gradual way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u259	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1388.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u260	It aims to maintain the Social Action Fund of the National Office for Veterans and War Victims – ONACVG – at €26 million, as in 2020. If we understand that staffing can be reduced in proportion to the number of citizens, we believe that in these difficult times, maintaining an amount similar to that of 2020 would be a strong signal for the world's most vulnerable and disadvantaged combatants. In addition, as public collection has been cancelled due to confinement, we question the ability of the Bleuet de France to complete social action. Could you please clarify this and reassure us, Madam Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u262	You propose to reduce the allocation of social action to ONACVG to €26 million – 2020 level. As you point out, the impossibility of organizing public-sector collections undermines the ONACVG's own resources to finance social action. This is the case, in particular, for the collections of the Bleuet de France – even if the minister delegate has specified that they could be carried out by digital means. In order to avoid a decrease in the appropriations for actions in favour of nationals in need, it is desirable that the State compensate for this loss, which will reach at least €0.5 million – or even more, since the collection of 11 November, which usually represents the bulk of the annual revenue, will unfortunately occur in full confinement. This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I give it a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u264	If it is proposed to provide the ONACVG Social Action Fund with 25 million euros, that is enough. We are trying to build the most sincere possible budgets. The EUR 1 million reduction in this allocation is far from being proportional to the decrease in the number of nationals, and the average expenditure will not decrease – on the contrary. The budget for 2021 will maintain support for veterans and surviving spouses, as well as assistance for victims of terrorist acts and wards of the nation. You recall the important role of the Bleuet de France. Its situation is difficult, as traditional collection dates, May 8 and November 11, fall into confinement. Le Bleuet de France has so far been following a very positive dynamic: it had collected 1.4 million euros in 2018 and more than 2.6 million in 2019. I do not yet know the figures for 2020. The quest on the public road will not be possible, but the Bleuet de France will diversify its methods of collection: it has thus launched an online shop and a dematerialised donation campaign. I would also be grateful if you could communicate about these new methods of collection, which will allow us to stay on course and maintain sufficient funds for the Bleuet de France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group, as well as on the benches of the commissions. and the Government]] For these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment. However, since 2017, I have been very attentive to this social action fund. We ensure that its funds are sufficient to support all those who need them. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the ONACVG, which is doing an extraordinary job of investigating cases. During confinement, ONACVG made more than a thousand telephone calls a day to veterans and war widows, to support them despite the isolation imposed on them. I wanted to pay tribute to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u265	I have before me five amendments, Nos 1404, 1659, 1663, 1710 and 1814, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1659, 1663, 1710 and 1814 are identical. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1404.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u266	It aims to put an end to a situation which we have repeatedly debated, that of the repatriated members of the auxiliary forces of ordinary civil status. It is a matter of redressing the error made by the French administration in respect of them, by granting EUR 4150 for any account balance to the twenty-five ordinary civil status substitutes who filed an application for an allowance of recognition between 5 February 2011 and 19 December 2013 and who did not initiate a litigation procedure within the time limits provided for following a negative response from the administration or in the face of the latter's silence. We are talking here about a very small number of people, of an advanced age and sometimes in very fragile situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u267	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1659.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u268	It is intended to deal with the situation of repatriated members of the ordinary civil status substitute forces. The legislator has introduced a special scheme for the compensation of harkis. They have encountered specific integration difficulties, which the legislator has intended to recognise and compensate. Yet, almost sixty years after their dramatic arrival in France, the Harki community is still waiting for all its members to be taken into consideration by this mechanism. Emmanuel Macron, like his predecessors, had promised to settle the situation once and for all. What about it? We are in the third generation of harkis on our soil, and the issue still seems unresolved. With this amendment, we are certainly proposing a small flow of appropriations of some EUR 100 000, but France would be honoured to take a definitive step so that the sacrifice, loyalty and dedication of the harkis are finally fully and fully recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u269	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1663.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u270	I will be brief, as previous speakers have already presented the content of these identical amendments. It is important to put an end to a situation that has been going on for too long. We had this discussion last year, and I note that there is a strong lack of understanding of the subject. However, it concerns only twenty-six members of the French army's supplementary formations. Our identical amendments aim to effect a credit movement of EUR 103750, which would allow 4150 euros to be allocated to the people concerned, who have passed "through the meshes of the net", if you pass the phrase. I hope that we will finally resolve this issue this year. Before considering the following amendments, which are perfectly identical, I would point out that only point 1663, which I have just tabled, and point 1710 by Mr Julien Aubert, have been studied by the committee. The Commission expressed an unfavourable opinion, despite the favourable opinion of the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u271	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor to support Amendment No. 1710.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u272	The persons concerned are quite old, as they are over 85 years of age. They receive a pension and express less a financial need than a need for recognition – recognition due to them. I therefore join my colleagues and support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u273	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support Amendment No. 1814.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u274	A lot has already been said. To sum up what we all think, some measures are highly symbolic: in this case, loyalty and courage must find recognition. No one here imagines that at 100,000 unhappy euros, we cannot do justice to these men, most of whom are very old. The longer the time passes, the fewer they will be. 4000 euros for the price of their courage and loyalty is so little! We cannot, this year again, postpone their request, which would deserve unanimity in the House. According to the Constitutional Council, they are eligible for the recognition allowance; There are only twenty-five of them; make this gesture, in recognition of what they have brought to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u275	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments under discussion. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u276	I will make a comprehensive answer, because we have been talking about the subject every year for several years. These are individual and particular cases where the legal issue is complex. Successive governments wanted to reserve the recognition allowance for former local law harkis, whose repatriation conditions were extremely difficult. After various avatars, the legal issues arising from this position have been resolved, both in terms of principles and individual claims. You refer to the situation of twenty-five ordinary law substitutes, but last year there were sixty, which indicates that the problems are gradually being resolved. As I was legally unable to make them pay through our services, I had proposed to treat these people through social action, which we did with the ONACVG. Because the problem is not money – we have 100,000 euros – it is the legal possibility to compensate these people. Of the 25 persons contacted by ONACVG, three died, six did not wish to respond to our requests, seven did not express any particular need, six were already accompanied by ONAC's social action as veterans with whom the Agency will continue its active support, and four received assistance for amounts up to 3000 euros. That's what I can tell you right now. Last year I forwarded a detailed statement of the situation to the rapporteur-general, as I had committed myself to doing. These people, we have not forgotten them, we have taken care of them, but we are not legally able to deal with their problem differently. Unfavorable opinion because, even if I were in favour of it, I would not be able to apply the measures voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u277	From all the appropriations of the mission "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u278	We understand that you have tried to resolve the issue by bypassing it through social assistance. But if the question comes back every year, it is precisely because they do not ask for social assistance. What they're asking for is a recognition allowance. That's why we're not moving forward. You say you can't pay it to them: let's change the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u279	That's something else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u280	Otherwise, we will start again next year – they may be a little less numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u281	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u282	I am also against these amendments. Apart from legal constraints, it seems to me very complicated to legislate retroactively on the situation. The law could only resolve future cases, and I hope that we will never again face this kind of difficulty. We must provide an answer on the human side, with the greatest dignity and with the respect that we owe to everyone. This has been done, we have had an account of all the individual situations; We can't go beyond that. We must deal with our history, but also with our right and with our ability to respect the situation of these people with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u283	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u284	We live in a world of memory competition where everyone wants their itinerary, their history, more or less tragic, to be recognized in the same way as that of others. However, I would like to remind Messrs. Dufrègne and Meizonnet that at the origin of this story, there are two distinct categories of substitutes with very different stories: on the one hand, the substitutes themselves, a staff under civil status of local law called of Arab-Berber origin; On the other hand, the ordinary civil status substitutes we are talking about this evening, known as those of European origin. These do not have the same story at all: when they returned to France, they did not have to undergo accommodation in transit internment camps, forest hamlets, etc. Mr Dufrègne, you say that we only have to change the law. But, on several occasions, the law has reiterated that this difference in status is justified. The Constitutional Council has validated it, as has the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u285	I put to the vote the credits of the "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u286	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 37 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u287	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1662.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u288	This is a request for a report. At present, the military disability pension for a war invalid and the survivor's pension for his or her spouse after death are calculated differently, which may result in the death of the pensioner – in cases where the pension paid to the great invalid was very high – in the collapse of the surviving spouse's income. The scheme to increase the survivor's pension for widows of large disabled persons reduces this gap by raising the survivor's pension by 360 index points, which corresponds to a sum of EUR 5_284.80 as of 1 January 2020. However, this increase benefits very few people: only 70 surviving spouses benefited from it in 2020. Section 54 of the 2021 Finance Bill, attached to the "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" mission, therefore proposes to extend the benefit of the reversion pension increase to surviving spouses of invalids with a pension index of less than 10,000 points, by lowering the threshold to 6,000 points. This was one of the measures mentioned by the Deputy Minister in her speech. It would benefit an additional 197 people, at an estimated cost of EUR 1 million. However, the magnitude of this measure, both in terms of cost and of the number of staff affected, is probably overstated. On the one hand, the theoretical number of 197 persons is unattainable, since it is calculated on the number of pensioners with between 6000 and 10000 required points, without considering the marital status of these persons, which leads to an overestimate of the number of beneficiaries of the measure. This appeal amendment calls on the Government to submit a report on the effects of the scheme in order to invite reflection on its scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u289	Has the committee voted on the amendment, Mr Special Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u290	I tabled this amendment in committee; The Commission expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u292	As a matter of principle, we are not in favour of requests for reports, which do not have their place in a finance law. On the substance, the method of assessing the measure is detailed in the Annex provided for that purpose, where it is stated in full transparency that the measure is based on the estimate of the maximum number of staff concerned. The budget thus provides for the maximum number of persons eligible for this increase. Furthermore, if admission to the scheme is based on the initiative of the parties concerned, this should not constitute an obstacle to the proper application of the measure voted last year. I know the work done by the associations to disseminate information and I welcome the proactivity of our services, and of the ONACVG in particular, who do not hesitate to contact potential beneficiaries and propose a real follow-up. We are forced to consider the maximum number of beneficiaries possible in order to make the budget as sincere as possible and to avoid being caught in default in the middle of the year. The issue is complex and the subjects are technical. I don't know if you've understood everything about this technicality, and I admit that I sometimes have trouble, but everything is done to best serve people who need an increase in their reversion pension. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u293	I call Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u294	We are not opposed to this, Madam Deputy Minister, and I welcome the decision to lower the threshold from 10,000 to 6,000 points. You confirm yourself that its application is not obvious and that the amount provided is a maximum amount, so that you do not face further difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u295	Another amendment, declared inadmissible, was intended to lower the threshold below 6,000 points. This hypothesis should be studied, so that the measure affects more people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u296	Madam Minister-in-Office, if it is possible to discuss these two issues again – that of assessing the number of people directly involved and that of extending the system by further lowering the threshold below 6000 points – I am not going to cling to this request for a report. I withdraw my amendment, if we can follow up on this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u297	All right, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u298	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1414 and 1039, on an additional article after Rule 54, which may be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 1414.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u299	With this amendment, we are asking for a report – since we are reduced to that – on the revalorisation of the point of military disability pensions – PMI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u300	I will give two figures: while the cumulative inflation since the changeover to the euro in 2001 is 31%, the value of the PMI index has changed by only 12.66 % since that date. It's a double penalty. In addition to the obvious loss of purchasing power, there is a symbolic injury: the recognition of the homeland is slower than inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u301	The report we are asking for would make it possible to draw up a preliminary assessment of the work of the Tripartite Commission with regard to the means necessary for the revalorisation and the possibility of an increase in the PMI point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u302	I agree with the statement made earlier by my colleagues in the group. The Republicans: it is regrettable that we are not associated with the tripartite committee at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u303	While a subject such as the fate of veterans could be consensual, the fact that the parliamentary groups in both chambers are not involved in the work of this committee leaves me pantois.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u304	If you would assure us, Madam Deputy Minister, that all the groups of the two chambers that so wish could be involved in this work, we could withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u305	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor to support Amendment No. 1039.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u306	My argument is the same as that developed at the moment by Bastien Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u307	If our proposals take the form of requests for reports, it is because the rules of the budget discussion force us to do so; We would obviously like to go faster in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u308	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u309	You are requesting the submission of a report on the reclamation of the IMP point. I noted in my report that while the appropriations for IMPs had decreased by 61 million euros, no revalorisation measures had been decided since 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u310	I therefore defended your request for a report in the Committee on Finance, but it did not follow me and gave an unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 1414.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u311	The request for a report of Amendment No 1039 is identical to that of No 1414, but could not be considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u313	In 2019, I made a commitment to the associations of the world fighting to create a tripartite commission...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u314	It's going to be two years now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u315	...in 2020. Needless to remind you that the containment went through there, pushing back its installation, originally scheduled for November. But this one will take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u316	I have just sent a letter to the Presidents of the two chambers, Messrs. Ferrand and Larcher, asking them to appoint a member to each assembly. The committee will therefore include parliamentarians – in addition, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, the Ministry of Armed Forces, and associations of the fighting world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u317	The objective is to take stock, in a transparent and objective manner, of the development of the MIP point and its relation to the consumption index. If there are significant differences, things will need to be improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u318	As the process is under way, I would ask you to withdraw these amendments. At the end of its work, the tripartite committee will of course submit a report to Parliament: everyone will be able to dispose of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u319	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u320	There would therefore be only one representative of the National Assembly in the tripartite commission. This will not make it possible to represent the diversity of the composition of this chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u321	In other words, you intend to appoint a majority representative: that would be more honest and direct. I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u322	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u323	Mr Lachaud, you are talking about democracy, but this tripartite committee is just a working group that is not going to decide anything. It will examine the facts, submit a report and propose solutions. It will then be up to you to decide with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u324	This committee is a working group, not a Parliament. She has to look at the facts, otherwise we can't do it. Frankly, that is what will make it possible to move forward and gain clarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u325	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u326	Madam Deputy Minister, since you are telling us that the report will be produced by the tripartite committee and that we will have it before we decide, I am withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u327	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1676.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u328	In the series of requests for reports, here is a new one, which relates to the combatant's card. Its award criteria were extended to external operations – OPEX – by the Act of 4 January 1993 and its implementing decree of 14 September 1993.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u329	Subsequently, new legal provisions made it possible to generalize the requirement of four months of presence in a theatre of operations for the allocation of the combatant's card to OPEX members. This duration is now considered equivalent to participation in fire or combat actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u330	The list of external operations eligible for the combatant's card is defined by an order of 12 January 1994, which has been amended on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u331	However, a number of military operations outside the national territory are still not included in this list, which deprives the military personnel who participated in it of the combatant's map and associated recognition and reparation rights. These include military personnel engaged in Rwanda prior to 15 June 1994, in Operation Noroît, and those who participated in operations in Chad prior to 15 March 1969.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u332	I therefore invite you to reflect further on the conditions for the allocation of the combatant's card to members deployed in OPEX, conditions that are sometimes too restrictive for some of them to benefit from the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u333	Mr President, has the committee considered this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u334	I forget to make it clear every time – but if I was given more important responsibilities, I would improve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u335	The committee has not considered this amendment, on which I naturally give a very favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u336	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u337	[[Smile]] The Special Rapporteur is overwhelmed. It is not easy to hold two roles at a time, if I may smile with you at this late hour, Mr. Dufrègne...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u338	As you have indicated, the list of external operations concerned is set out in the annex to the Order of 12 January 1994, which is subject to regular amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u339	Any external intervention is not necessarily considered an external operation – conditions of danger and duration must be met. The Armed Forces Staff shall take special care to ensure that the granting of the status of an external operation is justified, taking into account the advantages attached to the granting of the combatant's card. Florence Parly and I are very committed to maintaining these rigorous criteria and the advice of the staff, the only one able to judge the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u340	In all, more than 230,000 people now hold the OPEX fighter card. Of these, more than 110,000 received their cards after the introduction in 2015 of the four-month OPEX service criterion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u341	Of course, the majority of these people do not yet benefit from the veteran's retirement, because they are still very young – but they are many veterans, for whom we have the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u342	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u343	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 1395.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u344	The purpose of this request for a report is to draw your attention to two important points. The first is the need to move towards a better structuring of memory between the fighting world and the teaching world – I recall that I am myself a teacher.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u345	In our discussions with the associations of the fighting world, this desire for structuring comes back on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u346	As you know, on 14 October, the Fédération de l'Union nationale des combatants de Loire-Atlantique signed an agreement with the Rectorate de Nantes to intervene in colleges and lycées. This is a first in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u347	While we welcome this initiative, we question how it could be disseminated in other departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u348	In addition, we would like to see the costs of visiting a 20th-century conflict memory site, which is mandatory during the course of the school cycle, be assessed. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u349	I would add that I thank the members of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces for giving me a flash mission on the duty of memory, which also refers to these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, I support your proposal, which, if still to be worked out, allows me to stress the importance of memorial actions, without which the heritage can only be an empty shell of meaning for the younger generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u352	I am therefore in favour of this amendment on a personal basis, as the committee did not examine it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u353	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u354	Here you discuss a subject that is of great interest to us. I repeat, the Government is rather unfavorable to the requests for reports, especially since, as you have just said, you will soon be looking into the subject as part of a flash mission. We have developed a very close partnership with national education, through which we make available to them, via the Educ@def website, a teaching material that we are trying to constantly renew and rethink. We have, for example, created this year a web-series of ten episodes of two thirty minutes on the year 1940, the last two or three episodes to be released in the coming days. Of course, we participate in the major national competitions, the National Competition of the Resistance, the "Memory Bulls" or the "Small Artists of Memory", which we implement with the institutions. We also support the local actions relayed by the academic trinomies, whether they are testimonies of actors in contemporary conflicts – former deportees, veterans – or school trips. In 2019 and 2020, the Ministry supported projects involving nearly 40,000 students, amounting to 450,000 euros, which is not negligible. These projects include school visits, including high places of national memory. I therefore fully associate myself with your desire that each student visit a 20th-century conflict memory site during his or her schooling. Our department is not responsible for all sites, but has full responsibility for the high places of memory, and we are working with their officials to ensure that all school audiences are welcomed. On the one hand, we hope that these places will be free of charge for young people, but also that they will offer mediation in order to accompany young people. I look forward to the conclusions of your flash mission, and am naturally ready to meet you to deepen this exciting and indispensable subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u355	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u356	We need more than ever to strengthen this link between the nation and its youth, and to consolidate the transmission of memory in order to better build our future. In order to give meaning to the nation, youth must be able, beyond the horrors we suffer, to rely on our history to think the Republic. That is why our committee has given priority to this flash mission, whose rapporteur will be Jean-Philippe Ardouin. This is in line with our colleague's amendment, which we can only support, but which seems to me to be somewhat satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u357	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We completed the review of the "Defence" Mission and the "Veterans, Memories and Connections with the Nation" Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1052.u358	Next sitting, Monday, 2 November, at 9 a.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Review of the Justice Mission's appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
