ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u1	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law to create the status of a saving citizen, to combat cardiac arrest and to raise awareness of saving actions (No. 2363, 2624). The Conference of Presidents decided that this text would be examined in its entirety in accordance with the legislation procedure in committee. In accordance with Rule 107(3) of the Rules of Procedure, we will hear statements by the Government and the rapporteur of the committee and then explanations of vote by the groups. We shall then proceed to the vote on the whole text adopted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u3	We find ourselves today, as every time there is a question of life or death, of health, faced with a subject that goes beyond political divisions – otherwise legitimate in this assembly. The bill that you are considering today has no political colour, it does not fit into partisan boxes: its only vocation is to save lives. I welcome the fact that this spirit has guided the work of the House, both in the sitting and in committee, at first reading. I have no doubt that this will still be the case today. Certain facts have remained unchanged since the beginning of our exchanges: every year in France, 40,000 people die of cardiac arrest. Unannounced cardiac arrest, which has no apparent cause, accounts for 9% of deaths. Even more serious, when cardiac arrest occurs, the survival rate in our country is only 3% to 4%. If I say it's more serious, it's enough to take a look at the statistics – even if it's regrettable to use them for such a sensitive subject – from neighbouring countries to see that we can no doubt do better: in Scandinavia and the Anglo-Saxon countries, the survival rate in case of cardiac arrest rises to 20%, 30%, or even 40%. Can we give up and put aside any good initiative? The answer is obviously no. It is the responsibility of the Government and the President of the Republic; It will also be, I have no doubt, that of this House. One observation is that more than two thirds of cardiac arrest occurs in the presence of witnesses. This means that if more people were trained in the actions that save and knew how to intervene and take care of victims while waiting for relief, we would put every chance on our side to improve the survival rate in the event of cardiac arrest. The President of the Republic has therefore set a target: to train 80 per cent of the population in saving actions, with a reasonable delay of 10 years. This is an ambitious goal; However, we must all take responsibility for it together. It requires constant involvement of the State and all civil security actors. It requires training at all ages – that's what we do, and must continue to do. This goal must bring us together – I know we all want it. It will have a concrete effect on the safety of the French, since its consequence will be immediate: lives saved, the survival rate in the event of cardiac arrest must increase from 3% to 10%, which represents 3000 lives saved per year. In order to solve a problem that concerns us all, and in view of an increase in the number of citizens trained – so tomorrow, we all hope, of an increase in the number of interventions that can save lives when cardiac arrest occurs – we must adapt our legislative framework. This bill is innovative. I thank Mr Colas-Roy for his involvement in this text and, more broadly, for first aid. I know, honourable Member, your unwavering commitment to this matter. The creation of a status specific to a person who intervenes in the event of cardiac arrest will provide additional protection for those who practice first aid, including cardiac massages or the use of an electric defibrillator. Indeed, nothing would be more unfair than to allow them to risk prosecution for the acts they allegedly committed in trying to save a life. The status of a saving citizen therefore constitutes protection. Nevertheless, we must be careful that it does not weaken the notion of occasional public service collaborators. This is indeed an important notion of our right, and we must collectively ensure that its scope cannot be reduced. I understand, however, that, in your acceptance, the concept of a citizen has only a symbolic dimension, linked to behaviour, and does not refer to the status of a citizen in law. In addition, the bill contains advances that we must encourage, such as raising awareness among young people and employees, in order to train as many French people as possible, starting from school. These provisions are in line with the Government's policy. This year, 80 per cent of third-class students will receive first aid training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u4	It's not new!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u5	We will continue to grow in power, as 100% of students will be trained by 2021-2022. The universal national service will extend the training of young people in first aid, since training modules will be offered there. I would add that some of the remarks made by the Senate have been taken into account by the Assembly's Law Committee in its consideration of the text at second reading, in particular those relating to regulatory provisions contained in the text adopted at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of this bill should not leave room for partisan quarrels – I am confident on this point. This text draws our attention to a major issue. It offers a more protective status and guarantees that training will be given, especially for the benefit of our youth. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LT and GDR groups]] While the Government will, of course, remain vigilant about the quality of the law, this bill is in the right direction, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u6	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u7	First of all, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament, from all sides, for having unanimously adopted on first reading, almost a year ago to the day, this bill to combat cardiac arrest and the 40 000 to 50 000 unannounced deaths that result from it every year. The aim is both to commit everyone to the urgency of cardiac arrest and to place a subject that is not sufficiently discussed at the heart of our concerns. It is the honour of this House to have unanimously supported this text. I would also like to point out that this is the first time in the history of the House that the procedure of legislation in committee is initiated on a text. I thank the Law Commissioners, who adopted the proposals that I submitted to them when the text was discussed in committee on 29 January. Every year, 40,000 to 50,000 people suffer a "sudden death" – this is what is called unexpected or sudden cardiac arrest. The number of deaths is ten times higher than the number of deaths caused by road accidents. We're still talking too little about it. Too often it is considered that cardiac arrest is fatal and that nothing can be done. That's not true! Let me clarify the purpose of this text: it concerns cardiac arrest without a warning symptom, the person who collapses on the street, at work or at home. We have all been affected by this type of sudden cardiac arrest, from near or far: it affects our families, our parents, our neighbours, our colleagues, our comrades on the sports grounds. One third of the victims are under the age of 55. Today, we want to end this sense of fatality: we can all save lives, we can all fight cardiac arrest. The citizen, the first witness, is the essential link in the relief chain and its action is decisive for the survival of the victim. Currently, a number of mobile applications are developing, which allow us to solicit the relatives and neighbours of a person who collapses, who is the victim of cardiac arrest. It is our duty to encourage these initiatives and to encourage the intervention of citizens to gain precious minutes before the arrival of professional relief. We must encourage, desecrate the act of first aid and protect. To encourage, we need to train and raise awareness. Alerting, massaging and defibrilling are three simple gestures that learn in two hours and save lives. We will be able to desecrate first aid by explaining that it is simple and safe to form and intervene. To protect, the text aims to create the status of a saving citizen. The Senate has made many amendments to this bill. In a constructive attitude, the Committee on Laws has retained some of them, while re-establishing some of the provisions that we adopted at first reading, in line with the primary objective: to combat cardiac arrest and to raise awareness of the actions that save. When the heart stops, you start a real race against the clock. Every minute that passes without action reduces the chances of survival of the victim by 10%. After three minutes, the first irreversible sequelae appear. After ten minutes, without first aid, it is estimated that the chances of survival are almost zero. Three fundamental findings are at the root of the status of a saving citizen. In France, on average, professional rescue takes thirteen minutes to reach the site of an accident, so they arrive too late in case of cardiac arrest. We also know that 70% of unannounced cardiac arrest occurs in the presence of a witness – a neighbour, a relative, a colleague, a passerby. The survival rate is currently only 5% to 7% in France. If we can raise it to 12% or 15%, we will save more than 3,000 lives each year, equivalent to the number of deaths from road accidents. The stakes are considerable. The health and relief professionals that Hugues Renson and I met during the two years of drafting the text stressed the importance of engaging our fellow citizens to intervene and practice cardiac massage, from the very first seconds. To achieve this, we wanted to define a special status, in order to protect the citizens who make the first aid gestures in the first few minutes, which are decisive for the survival of the victim. We also wanted to recognize, through this status, the civic commitment of those who act on a voluntary basis. That is why we have chosen the term "saviour citizen": this term underscores the act of civicism of the person who helps and it specifies the civil and criminal protections that the citizen enjoys when he or she comes to the aid of others. Let us be clear: this status protects citizens only when they act and act in good faith. The saving citizen then has the status of occasional public service collaborator. I would also like to point out that the associations, stakeholders and actors in the world of first aid and internal security have already appropriated this status as a saving citizen and use the expression to designate the first volunteer witnesses who bring relief and perform cardiac massage. We have therefore reinstated the words "saviour citizen" in section 1e r and in the title of the bill. We found it important to also restore the provisions on cardiac massage awareness at different stages of life. We have therefore reinstated the article on the creation of an educational continuum between the first and the second degree. The sixth grade is a key learning moment for children, after they have learned in primary school to alert in the event of an accident and before they receive level 1 prevention and civic relief training – PSC1 – at the end of the third grade. We have also restored the possibility for an employee to benefit, before retirement, from an awareness of the actions that save. In order to achieve the President of the Republic's goal of training 80 per cent of the population in ten years, we must succeed in involving both the active and the elderly. Finally, we have re-established Article 12a, which aims to make public and digitally accessible seven indicators of cardiac arrest, in order to better assess and control the evolution of the survival rate and the number of cardiac massages performed by witnesses before the arrival of the rescue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let me once again welcome the work and commitment of all those who come to help: citizens, civil protection associations, doctors, emergency workers, firefighters and rescue professionals. To all those who are on the front line every day to save lives: thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u9	I also thank my colleague and friend Hugues Renson and our teams. We have been working together for the past two years to combat unexpected cardiac arrest and to advance a cause that is still too unknown, yet affects every year 50000 Frenchmen and their families. The citizen, the first witness, is the first link in the rescue chain before the firefighters or the UAS, the emergency medical aid service, arrive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u10	In the title of the bill, we included the phrase "to combat cardiac arrest". The word "combat" is of real importance here: we can act against cardiac arrest, we can all become life-saving citizens and thus save thousands of lives every year in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups]] It is the pride of the legislator to be able to include in the law measures expected by all actors involved in the relief of the person. It is an honour to present this text to you again, and I hope that it will once again generate your commitment and confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u11	In explanation of vote, Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u12	On behalf of the IUD Group, Action and Independents, I welcome your initiative, Mr rapporteur – as I did in committee. It is to your honour that you have seized this subject, since it is no more or less a matter of saving lives. To do this, the first thing is to organise training within the school curriculum, after which the repetition of experiences will make it possible to progress so that, tomorrow, every citizen is able to give first aid gestures. The implementation of information channels and practice are also essential for the society to which we want to move. I'm adding a word to a device that I care about. I worked with the former Member of Parliament – now a senator – Jean-Pierre Decool, of whom I am the successor in this assembly, to make an automatic defibrillator available to the communities, thanks to the late parliamentary reserve, which had found its usefulness on this occasion. You rightly recalled, Mr rapporteur, the creation of the status of a saving citizen. It was important to provide legal security in order to remove certain obstacles: people who were willing to help should not give up, for fear that their good intentions would turn against them. I salute your willingness to encourage and protect the citizen's gesture, the gesture that saves. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] I repeat that this text is to your credit. I would also like to congratulate our colleague Hugues Renson, who, with a true conviction, played a leading role in his preparation. Well done, both of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u13	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u14	By creating a statute for a saving citizen, this bill is moving in the right direction, as it responds to a well-identified societal issue and a real public health problem. It will enable our society to become more aware of first aid actions throughout life. It has been said that France is lagging significantly behind in this area. Today, barely a third of the population is aware of the actions that save when 90% of Norwegians are able to deliver them. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore supports the provisions of this text relating to education and awareness-raising in the fight against cardiac arrest and the actions that save. However, we want the financial resources to match the proposed measures. The competent bodies and accredited associations that will be responsible for first aid training must have the means to act. Article 6, establishing a national day to combat cardiac arrest, had been deleted by the Senate. Whether or not this day is provided for by law, our group considers it important that it be born. It will indeed ensure that our citizens are more aware of the actions that save. It will contribute to the effectiveness of the right to health protection and to the full realization of the objective of the constitutional value of protecting public health. The text also intends to accompany technological developments, which is a necessity. Admittedly, positive law already legally protects citizens who volunteer first to save lives, but we can and must go further. The law cannot continue to run after technological developments. We have a responsibility to anticipate them and, failing that, to accompany them, as is the case with this text. Today, we see a boom in the networks of self-help dematerialized and, among them, those aimed at saving lives. More and more mobile applications are being created for this purpose, and the territories join in the efforts of the rescue citizens mobilized through them. Thus, the SAUV Life application allows citizens to provide first aid in the event of cardiac arrest; It is the most used in Hexagon, where it already has 120,000 followers. This technological advance contributes to addressing important public health issues by providing the opportunity to save precious minutes and lives. In addition to this objective, which we all aim at, the risk of neurological sequelae should be minimized when cardiac arrest has lasted too long. To do this, you must provide the first heart massages and, if possible, use a defibrillator in a ten-minute slot. Beyond this time limit, the consequences can be serious or even fatal. Given the need to act quickly, a smartphone alert to mobilize and guide voluntary lifesaving citizens makes sense. However, these mobile applications do not require first aid training to be part of the lifesaving citizen chain. An emergency doctor from La Mayenne, in the constituency of my colleague Yannick Favennec Becot, recently explained that the worst thing would be to do nothing: it is still worth an amateur massage. However, we can imagine the legal consequences of an intervention by a rescue citizen who would not have been trained in first aid. Let me turn to the details of the bill. In clause 1, which is the result of a compromise between the Senate and our assembly, we agree with the amendment made by our commission, which, among other things, removes the reference to the "spontaneous and voluntary" nature of the rescuer's intervention. Indeed, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the rescue citizen may be required to intervene in certain circumstances at the request of a UAS doctor, firefighters or a telephone control centre. It was therefore appropriate to adopt a wording specifying the voluntary nature of the intervention. We are more cautious, on the other hand, about the introduction of paragraph 6 in committee. The precise definition – perhaps too precise – of the role of the saving citizen should not have an opposite effect to that sought and should not deter some people from intervening because of their lack of knowledge of first aid actions. Let's repeat: in terms of cardiac arrest, the worst thing is to do nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u15	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u16	It is certain that if a concept is properly defined, the law will be more easily and correctly applied. However, defining, or defining too precisely, also means taking the risk of freezing the right, while the facts, circumstances may change. To give the right a certain plasticity is to allow it to adapt over time and to achieve its objectives. With regard to the role of the saving citizen, the very detailed definition proposed to us may be a hindrance to voluntary interventions. However, we do not go back to the need to create a legal environment conducive to the interventions of the rescue citizens, who will be more and more involved, in order to reduce the 40,000 to 50,000 deaths per year associated with unexpected cardiac arrest. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] This bill gives us an opportunity to strengthen existing provisions. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u17	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u18	The stories of hearts affect all of us, naturally, in their own sense as well as in the figurative sense. For having lived this moment several times, I can testify that when a gesture made at the right time revives a heart that was no longer beating, it is like a small miracle that occurs. We will never repeat it enough: while waiting for emergencies, it is better to do wrong than to do nothing. Every second counts. These actions, which can save from unexpected cardiac arrest, are now the subject of a bill and I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having submitted it for our consideration. Unannounced cardiac arrest accounts for 9% of deaths in France every year. The survival rate of victims is particularly low: 70 per cent of cardiac arrest takes place in front of witnesses, but only 20 per cent of them do first aid. This small proportion is partly due to the fact that only 30% of French people are trained in these gestures. It's too little. In 2017, Patrick Pelloux and Éric Faure's report called for 80% of the population to be trained, as the minister recalled. France is in a very poor position compared to its European neighbours, particularly Scandinavians. We must therefore act as quickly as possible. Everyone should be aware of these gestures, especially since life-saving training takes only a few hours. [[Smiles and applause on various benches]] [[Caroline Fiat points her finger towards her sternum – Smiles]] I am opening a parenthesis for everyone, present or not in the Chamber: we must not be afraid to make this gesture and, even if we are not supposed to speak English in this chamber, I will not be resented to recall that the tempo to be adopted in order to make a heart message is that of the Bee Gees song "Staying alive". So don't hesitate to sing that tune, which may save you a life. You see, sometimes you don't need to know a lot to save someone: a heart massage is a hundred compressions per minute on the sternum – sternum which, I say for those who don't know, is there. The bill introduces the status of a saving citizen for those who assist a person in a situation of serious and imminent danger. This status protects them from prosecution in the event of injury, except for gross or intentional misconduct. In addition, four articles aim to raise awareness among citizens of the actions that can save: in school, in the second degree, in the business community, in the sports community and, more broadly, in the general population, through the establishment of a national day to combat sudden death. Other articles set out the modalities for the empowerment of agencies responsible for providing first aid training, as well as the methods of teaching. We will vote for the whole text. I would like to take this opportunity to point out to my colleagues, to the Speaker of the National Assembly and to the Minister that I myself have tabled a bill on this subject. You wondered how to get more people trained. My bill is designed to strengthen first aid training for driving licences. It was signed by Members from all the benches, with the exception of those of the majority. So we can almost talk about a transparency text. All we have to do now is put it on our agenda. I recall that half of those who die on the road die in the first few minutes after a car accident. According to the Red Cross, if witnesses could react, between 250 and 300 lives could be saved each year. I have one regret, which concerns the title of the bill. At first reading, I had not had time to table an amendment and, not being a Commissioner of Laws, I did not participate in the second reading of the text on 29 January. I have therefore not been able to table an amendment for today. At first reading, however, I had suggested to you, Mr rapporteur, and to Mr Laurent Nunez, present in the Chamber, that it would be better to speak of "actions that can save" rather than "actions that save", because the heart does not always start beating again, even when massage is done very well and in a very professional way. In this case, it is not necessary to blame the person who provided it with care. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LaREM, MODEM and LR]] To this extent, the La France insoumée group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u19	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u20	How can we not be sensitive to the problem raised by the bill and to the prospect of significantly reducing the number of deaths due to cardiac arrest? Every year, it has been said, more than 40,000 people die for lack of immediate care, ten times more than the number of road victims. You made it clear, Mr rapporteur: the first minutes are decisive, since in the absence of any heart massage, the chances of a victim's survival decline every minute lost. In France, these opportunities are only 5% to 7%, while they amount to 20% or even 40% in some Scandinavian or Anglo-Saxon countries. Working on the capacity of rescue citizens to intervene from the outset is therefore essential if the number of deaths is to be significantly reduced. In April 2017, the Faure-Pelloux report on the generalization of training for rescued gestures was concerned that the French population's training rate in this area was among the lowest in the world. It called for four major actions to achieve a population training rate of 80 per cent. The Académie de médecine confirmed this opinion in its report of 2 October, whose main recommendation is to train the entire French population in the actions that save. It recalls that "public education is the key to improving survival". While this education should start from school, the report recommends that training should be repeated at least every five years, and made compulsory at certain points in citizens' life, such as university entry, civic service, obtaining a driving licence, admission to retirement and even admission to sports clubs. As the bill is based on these recommendations, we can only share the objectives: to raise awareness of the actions that save and to create, in accordance with the wishes of health professionals, a saving citizen status. However, achieving the ambitious objectives of training would require the involvement of many stakeholders, who, although not having the official status of trainer, can perfectly dispense initiations to the actions that save. I am thinking in particular of teachers, health workers. Thus, the president of the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-pômeurs de France and the president of the Association des médecins urgentistes de France propose to open the possibility of giving initiations to gestures that save lighter profiles, for example to initiators who have undergone non-qualifying training at the Fédération nationale de la protection civile or the Red Cross. If the first few minutes after a major cardiovascular accident are decisive, we do not lose sight of the fact that the patient's survival also depends on the reliability of the entire intervention chain. It is particularly weakened. Firefighters demonstrate, among other reasons, to denounce a funding deficit of €600,000 to €800,000 per barracks; Emergency services are themselves in great difficulty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why, while the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will of course vote in favour of this bill, which is in the right direction, it is essential to stress that it would make sense if it were to be included in a comprehensive plan to strengthen the whole chain of intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u21	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u22	On 19 February, on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, I was defending this bill before you on the occasion of its first reading. A year later, almost to the day, I am pleased to return to this forum to defend it again, at second reading and at the end of a procedure newly introduced in our Rules of Procedure, the procedure of legislation in committee. Thus the parliamentary shuttle follows its course. While the Senate has substantially changed the operative part of the bill adopted here by unanimity, I hope that the views expressed by each of the assemblies will be brought closer and that we will soon arrive at a common text; If we reach a good compromise with our fellow senators, this own-initiative parliamentary text can be adopted soon. Thanks to the changes in the text presented to you by the rapporteur, we are moving forward. Let us keep in mind the original objective of the bill, which has been repeatedly recalled: it aims to combat unannounced cardiac arrest and to make citizens aware of the actions that save. This is a major public health issue. There's an emergency. The figures have been recalled: every year between 40,000 and 50,000 people are victims of unexpected cardiac arrest, which is a cause of death ten times more frequent than road accidents. While the survival rate is around 20% to 40% in the Anglo-Saxon countries, as has already been pointed out, it reaches only 5% to 7% in France, because too few of our fellow citizens are aware of the gestures that save: only 20% of the French population has received training in this field, while the President of the Republic has set the goal of training 80% of our compatriots within ten years. It is therefore time to act. The purpose of this bill, which we propose to adopt in the version adopted by the commission, is to achieve this objective: to save, in the long term, nearly 3000 lives per year. This text is the result of collective reflection. He has been working in liaison with key civil security actors, such as the Red Cross and the National Federation of Civil Protection, with relief services, such as the Paris Fire Department and the Paris UAS, with health professionals, such as Professor Pierre Carli, Head of Service of the Paris UAS, or Professor Xavier Jouven, Director of the Centre of Expertise on the Sudden Death of Adults, with associations, such as the AJILA Foundation, and with application developers, many of whom have already been cited – SAUV Life, Staying Alive or AFPR-First Respondents. We also interviewed those who survived an unexpected cardiac arrest thanks to first aid actions by a rescue citizen – such as those young people who testified in front of us or David Ginola. All these actors, we listened to them before soliciting various government departments, those of the Ministries of the Interior, Justice, National Education, Health and Sports. Like any human construction, this bill was, in its original version, perfectable. Successive parliamentary reviews have improved it, and will further improve it. So let's keep moving forward, and let's not forget that every minute counts, because every minute that passes without heart massage practice, the chances of survival of victims decrease by 10%. The citizen is the first to be able to act. It is mainly in urban centres that situations of cardiac distress occur; the exceptional density of Paris is clearly a factor in increasing risk. Stations and their surroundings, overpopulation in public transport, crowding, traffic, conflicts in the sharing of public space are, it is proven, all risk factors. These daily stress situations are compounded by the threat of disasters. Following the tragic terrorist attacks of 2015, first aid training was declared a major national cause for 2016. Many citizens, powerless in the face of the tragedy, had expressed their will to learn the actions that save lives. We must help, encourage and protect them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to express today the same unanimity as at first reading and to adopt the bill as proposed to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u23	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u24	[[Mrs Maud Petit and Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi applaud]] The Republican Group had voted in favour of this text at first reading, and it did so last week, at second reading, in the framework of the legislation procedure in committee. I say this from the outset: in the interests of consistency, we will do the same today. However, the Republican Group has also followed the work of our fellow senators. However, they had chosen to redact the regulatory provisions, which had nothing to do with them, so as to facilitate their application and increase their effectiveness. We regret that you have re-established these regulations, which give the text a bit of a chatter. That being said, 50,000 lives a year are at stake, and we will be committed to contributing to the effort to save as much as possible. On the substance, progress still needs to be made on two aspects. First of all, the text provides that training will take place at crucial times of existence. For our part, we believe that training should be extended to actions which save at an early age, within the framework of the education system. Everyone must realize that it is important to be reactive when such accidents occur, and this is learned from an early age. Secondly, we believe, Mr Minister of the Interior, that relief must be considered in a comprehensive manner. However, some professions suffer from a lack of commitment – I am thinking in particular of volunteer firefighters, who are among the first rescuers with health associations and professionals. The territorial mesh of first aid poses real problems, due to the acute lack of volunteers, volunteers and citizens willing to commit themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In this respect, the creation of the status of a saving citizen is a major step forward. Let us beware that it will encourage an increasing number of French to go further and to cross the door of fire brigades to become a volunteer. This bill will therefore receive our full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u25	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u26	As we had pointed out at first reading, this bill is useful because it provides legal certainty by scrutinizing ancient jurisprudence in the marble. It also allows us to focus on the still unknown issue of unannounced cardiac arrest. These figures have already been mentioned, but it seems to me useful to quote them again: unannounced cardiac arrest causes between 40,000 and 50,000 deaths each year in France. Above all, the survival rate is much lower in our country than in our neighbours: it is about 5%, compared to 20% to 30% elsewhere. This sad situation is due in particular to the very low rate of training of the French population for first aid gestures, especially cardiac massage. I would like to point out in passing that our emergency relief system is working with high-quality professionals and volunteers, whom I wish to acknowledge and thank for their courage and dedication. In the case of cardiac arrest, the first minutes are crucial. It is at that time that the intervention of the citizens is paramount, in order to provide first aid gestures while waiting for the arrival of the professionals. However, the rate of training in these actions among the French population is particularly low. It seems urgent to increase it sharply in the coming years. In recent years, efforts have been made: external automated defibrillators, accessible to the general public, have been deployed; school-based training obligations have been strengthened. The bill before us aims to support this momentum, in order to achieve the ambitious goals that have been set: to raise 80 per cent of the population to the actions that save and to raise the survival rate to more than 10 per cent within 10 years. The Senate broadly supported this bill, while making useful amendments: some wording was clarified and articles were deleted, either because they were satisfied with the current legislation or because they were not in the legislative domain. During the examination in committee, you wished, Mr rapporteur, to re-establish some of the provisions of the text adopted at first reading, and we followed you. I am thinking, in particular, of the creation of the status of a saving citizen, of section 1 – even though the expression "occasional and volunteer lifeguard" proposed by the Senate, was, in our view, closer to the concept recognized by jurisprudence. Other provisions have been reintroduced to raise the awareness of primary school students about the fight against cardiac arrest and the actions that save, the notion of an educational continuum, and the awareness of employees before they retire. We are more cautious about the establishment of a national day to combat cardiac arrest and to raise awareness of the actions that save. Indeed, I would like to point out that we must ensure that the requirement of clarity and quality of the law is respected; As such, it is important that we avoid the inclusion of regulatory-level provisions in the texts we adopt. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the objective of the bill, which we believe is shared by all parliamentarians, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will of course vote for it. We very much hope that the next steps in the parliamentary shuttle will lead to an agreement with the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u27	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u28	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 70 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u29	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Bruno Studer, Gilles Le Gendre and others to guide the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms (#2519, 2651).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u30	Mr Bruno Studer, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u31	Minister of Culture, dear Franck Riester,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u32	The IDU speaks to the IDU!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u33	... and colleagues, the bill that we are considering today is in a very special context, that of the digital impregnation of our children, whose consequences we are only beginning to measure. I am well aware that this bill, which the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education unanimously adopted last week, deals with only a part of the subject – because, with regard to the relationship that children have with digital technology, parliamentarians have many questions – but it is a part on which it is essential to legislate: the phenomenon of "youtubers" or "influencers" children. I don't know if you all know what this is about, but our children know it very well. However, this phenomenon is nothing more than a new form of child labour that appears at the same time as digital work, about which I believe it is our duty to act. Some videos are at the limit of the acceptable. Our ambition, however, is not to make a judgment; It is primarily a matter of establishing a protective framework that will guarantee the best interests of the child. The bill aims to empower the various actors, especially parents, as well as to raise awareness of the psychological risks that children face, to preserve their privacy and integrity as best as possible, to limit shooting times and to encourage reports of problematic videos. Finally, it is necessary to ensure that children receive the benefits of their business or of the commercial exploitation of their image, by imposing the deposit of the revenues thus generated on a bank account for which they will be used by the majority. These videos have multiplied in recent years, in France and elsewhere. They feature different moments in children's lives and are often shot, made and monetized by their own parents. They represent activities that, at first glance, may seem anodizing – unpacking toys, tasting food – or even various challenges. I have found that some children appear in many videos, including in problematic situations with regard to children's rights. Some videos may even be part of product placement and advertising inserts, i.e., in plain terms, a modern form of teleshopping that makes many television channels pale with envy, given the audience of the online channels in question, which have millions of subscribers and whose videos are seen up to hundreds of millions of times. That is why I wanted to work at the service of children's rights in order to avoid the Internet being a total non-law area. In France, child labour is prohibited except for exceptions; This prohibition must also apply on the Internet, which is not an area of lawlessness – even if it is to dismantle maps and reshape the boundaries between work and leisure, between public and private spheres. That is why it is so difficult to legislate on this matter. I am pleased, however, that this bill, which is just beginning its parliamentary process, has already had its first effects: last Monday, I read a news release announcing that the toy and child-care industries had adopted a charter for companies that put products in these videos published on the Internet. Let us be clear: it is not a question of banning these videos, but of ensuring respect for the best interests of the child, which is a principle not only of constitutional value, but also – as we have just celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child – of treaty value. I repeat, my ambition is to empower parents by giving these activities a clear legal framework. Article 1 establishes a legal framework for the work of minors under 16 years of age by applying the protective regime for children of entertainment. Parents will have to apply to the administrative authority for permission to use their children in this type of video. They will be required to comply with the hourly limitations set by decree and will have to pay a majority of the income generated by these videos to an account opened at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. We are thus filling a legal gap identified with the Assembly's services, which I thank for their work in diagnosing and drafting the bill over the past few months. We have met with many parents: they are very much seeking such a legal framework, which will allow them to respond to comments accusing them of exploiting their children in the videos they publish. However, because the Internet is rebuffing cards, not all situations are so simple. In some cases, this is not a work in the classical sense, because of the absence of the instructions that characterize an employment relationship. Filming the scenes of a child's daily life, monetizing these videos and taking advantage of them to place products is neither work nor leisure. Article 3 responds to this situation by imposing a mandatory declaration in the above-mentioned cases which will lead to the application of protective measures concerning the time spent by the child in the production of these videos and the preservation of part of the income. If the parents and companies involved in product placement are to be held accountable, the platforms must also be held accountable. Although they have limited liability under European law for the content they broadcast, it seems to me that, since they derive advertising revenue from the viewing of videos, they cannot exempt themselves from any responsibility, particularly with regard to the protection of minors. Article 4, in particular, provides that by adopting charters on a voluntary basis, the platforms undertake to encourage the reporting by their users of problematic content showing a minor. Above all, they commit themselves to working in liaison with associations – which have dealt with this subject for several months – to improve the detection of situations with legal problems and to preserve the dignity and respect for the physical and moral integrity of the child. Article 5 deals with an issue to which I know you are all very attached: the famous right to forget. It seems to me important to recall that a minor may request the platform to withdraw a video that it no longer wishes to make available, in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulations, the GDPR. The result is a number of new responsibilities for the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, the CSA, which will soon become the Autorité de réglementation de la communication audiovisuel et numérique. I will leave it to you, Mr Minister, to introduce an amendment to that effect, because if I did so myself, this amendment would, because of my parliamentary status, be inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u35	I know how to count on you, having been able to measure the intensity of your support on a subject that challenges us all here; Thank you for that. In summary, this bill aims to improve the protection of children by establishing a clear legal framework for video-sharing activities involving minors under 16 years of age, in both work and leisure situations. Then I put everyone – parents, advertisers, platforms – in front of their responsibilities. Finally, it is necessary to allow the public authority – whether it is the judge or the competent administrative authority, often the departmental directorate of social cohesion – to better detect situations that present a problem for the child. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LT and LR groups]] This bill is part of a work that has been under way for several years to regulate the Internet. As far as the protection of children is concerned, let me call for a warning, if not an alarm: to the temptation of virality, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should prefer the imperative of intimacy. Children need privacy to build themselves. This bill contributes to the alert message that I want to send to our citizens and, beyond that, to all digital users. Once again, on these issues, France is the first to legislate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u36	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u37	Digital technology brings its share of new opportunities, but also its share of risks; This is not the first time I've mentioned them to you. In the face of these risks, we have a responsibility: to ensure that the rules are respected by all, to adapt them if necessary, and to fill the legal gaps, with pragmatism and ambition, without abandoning our principles and without resigning ourselves. Indeed, it is not because digital giants are giants that they must escape any regulation. No, the Internet is not a lawless space. It was this state of mind that inspired yesterday the draft law on the fight against the manipulation of information, of which President Bruno Studer was already rapporteur, the draft law, presented by Laetitia Avia, aimed at combating hateful content on the Internet, as well as the directive on copyright in the digital single market, which you have already allowed to transpose the provisions relating to the neighbouring right to the benefit of press publishers, the remainder to be transposed by the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, which will soon be placed on the Assembly's agenda. It is the same state of mind that governs the text that you are examining today. It extends to the digital world a protection that already exists for children in the entertainment sector and child models. It is in line with the speech delivered by the President of the Republic to UNESCO on 20 November, in which he recalled that the entire Government was mobilized to promote child protection alongside the Secretary of State for Child Protection, Adrien Taquet. This text is further proof of this: the protection of children in the digital space is a priority of the Government, the majority and the Assembly. Precisely, we are strengthening this protection. In particular, we want to better protect minors from online pornography. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which will be transposed by the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, contributes to this. It requires video sharing platforms to take measures to prevent minors from accessing content that is particularly harmful to them, including, of course, pornographic content. Laetitia Avia's bill also covers pornographic content, providing for an obligation to withdraw when they are accessible to minors without control. As for Bérangère Couillard's proposal for a law, it states in the Criminal Code that simply declaring his age online does not provide sufficient protection against access to pornography by minors. This is a commitment of the President of the Republic, which the Government has supported and which it has allowed to be introduced into the law. Finally, a monitoring committee has been set up to encourage the use of parental control on computer terminals. It shall be subject to a performance obligation within six months. Bringing together the relevant actors and associations, it is part of the work carried out jointly by the CSA and the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press, ARCEP, which is intended to multiply, and which I welcome. I welcome the commitment made by Roch-Olivier Maistre and Sébastien Soriano to conduct this cooperation in the best possible way. In a sense, this cooperation between regulators is a reminder: if we want to protect children effectively from the dangers of digital technology, we will not succeed alone. To protect, we have to unite. This ambition, we must feed it at European level, because Europe is our best protection. In the face of digital giants, it is even our only effective and credible protection. We will do the weight if and only if we make a common front. This is the case with regard to child protection; This was already the case with regard to the neighbouring right to the benefit of news agencies and press publishers. The European Commission is currently preparing its Digital Agenda. This is an opportunity for us to promote the French vision on this issue by taking ambitious initiatives. I am fully committed to this, together with my colleague Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs. In this respect, European regulation must be both flexible and demanding. It will have to be flexible, first of all, because the digital world is changing rapidly; regulation must be able to change as quickly as possible. It is therefore necessary to set targets, but let the actors concerned choose the best solutions, which they think will be the most appropriate. Then she'll have to be demanding. This level of requirement will be achieved by providing the regulator with the means to monitor the platform's efforts and results and to sanction possible breaches of their obligations. While the issue of access to content is a major concern, it cannot be the only one. The legislation that you are considering today, ladies and gentlemen, deals specifically with a separate situation. It is not intended to protect children from video content, it is intended to protect those involved. It is not intended to protect the public, it is intended to protect creators. Now, in recent years, the number of video creators has increased exponentially – and that's so much better! – mainly on YouTube, as well as on TikTok and Twitch, or Vine yesterday. Video sharing platforms are most often a chance. These are spaces of freedom, where extraordinary creativity unfolds. Great talents – talent to tell stories, artistic, musical or comic talent – are expressed, revealed and found an audience, without an intermediary. These videos are also a source of income for their creators. With the monetization of content, some have even made it their professional activity; They are sometimes referred to as "influencers". Today, more and more videos, more and more channels are devoted to the exhibition of children. Children are staged playing, eating or cooking. But behind the scenes, by the controller, so to speak, are often the parents. It is they who stage their children, make the videos and can impose a rhythm of shooting, as well as the use of certain types of content or products sold in the trade; and it is they who, at the end, recover the related remuneration. The risk to children is obvious. With this piece of legislation, we want to better protect these "influencers" children. In order to protect, it is necessary to regulate this activity, which means that it must be subject to the rules of ordinary law laid down in the Labour Code in cases where the activity of minors is equivalent to paid work. This is already the case for children who play in a play or in a film, or who perform at the circus. I welcome the commitment of my colleague Muriel Pénicaud to this. This also requires the creation of an administrative declaration regime in cases where, even if it is not a wage earner, the number and duration of the content, or the amount of income generated by the distribution of the videos, fully justify the exercise of special vigilance and the conduct of educational activities towards the parents. To protect, one must unite, which means that digital platforms must be associated with this fight. They need to be empowered, both in terms of informing parents about regulation and in terms of combating abuse. In order to protect, the right to forget must finally be guaranteed. This is the case with this draft law for minors appearing in videos posted on digital platforms. It is particularly important that the minor does not need to seek permission from his or her parents to exercise this right. The guard of the seals is fully mobilized in this fight. Mr President of the Committee, Mr Bruno Studer, I thank you for having tabled this bill, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u39	The Government wished to participate actively in the legislative work, and that is why I will submit, on behalf of the Government, two amendments to the approval of the national representation. The first, in Article 2, is to replace the procedure for withdrawing the contents of an administrative injunction with a procedure for referring the case to the court of interim measures, which we believe is better able to reconcile the preservation of freedom of expression and the protection of minors. The second aims, in Article 4, to strengthen the voluntary engagement arrangements of the platforms, specifying that the charters of good practice to be drawn up by them are intended to be followed up by the APF, which will publish recommendations on them, as well as an assessment of their implementation. Moreover, the bill as a whole will be designed to evolve and gain legal precision, with a view to the forthcoming consideration of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] If this bill is necessary, it will unfortunately not be sufficient. The mobilization of State agencies and relevant actors will also help to detect particularly problematic situations and ensure effective child protection. On this point, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, of the full mobilization of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u40	Mrs Maud Petit spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u41	Today we are looking at our colleague Bruno Studer's bill to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms. Who wasn't amused by watching a child's video on YouTube about a fun scene in her daily life that could echo ours? But that's it: in a few hours, a simple video can become viral and get anyone out of anonymity, especially – and more and more – young children! The headlines of the news increasingly prompt us to wonder about this global phenomenon. Here is an example: "A six-year-old Korean with 13 million subscribers has become the owner of a five-storey building"; or, in France: "They are still very young, but are already followed by some 1.4 million subscribers on the YouTube video hosting platform". There's something to get us to react to. Of course, the phenomenon is not new, but it must not leave indifferent the legislators we are, especially when it comes to minors, whose rights must be protected. Clearly, this is not yet the case. More and more videos show not only teenagers, but also young children and even babies, exposing them in everyday scenes. Beyond this apparent lightness, there is a danger that the child will be used as an advertising tool, to the detriment of his or her well-being and rights, without his or her parents or legal guardians always being aware of the scope of such actions. The millions of subscribers I mentioned earlier are all people who each post behind their screen, looking at the child, who did not necessarily give his or her consent. A responsible human society must protect its children from the potential harms of digital technology, and from the overexposure it may cause. We must therefore provide a legal answer to several questions. How can we protect our children from the risks of their overexposure, such as harassment and harm to their image and dignity? How can we regulate a practice similar to the work of minors, in addition to generating substantial income from the benefits from which children are excluded? This is the purpose of this bill, which has received broad support...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u42	Transparent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u43	... within the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. This is an expression of a common will, which the MODEM Group would like to welcome, to adopt a constructive approach and to take our responsibilities, given the importance of the subject. The work carried out in committee last week has made it possible to change certain provisions of the bill and to further clarify its legislative framework, which we welcome. In substance, the text lays down specific rules to guide these practices, drawing on existing ones, including the supervision of child labour in the entertainment and modeling world. Indeed, all the practices referred to are similar to a professional activity and generate income. If the minor concerned has given his consent to the publication of a video in which he appears, or if the individual authorization provided for in Article 1e r has indeed been provided, Article 3 provides for a framework of working hours, as well as an opening of the rights to remuneration for the minor, who may, until his majority, deposit the income generated by his activities in an account opened at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. The issue of platform accountability, which we also believe is of paramount importance, is at the heart of the text. The players in the digital field bear a heavy responsibility, particularly with regard to the information of users and users of their services. It is essential to frame this area of activity and to ensure that this information is transmitted and, above all, well received. The MODEM Group is particularly committed to regulating the Internet; It therefore supports the initiative taken through this text. The issue of platform responsibility was discussed in committee, which led to a redefinition of the terms of the platform. We must continue this work in open session. Indeed, we believe that the mechanism provided for in Article 4 can be improved. We are pleased with the Government's proposal to give the APF the expertise to support the platforms. It is through prevention, first and foremost, that we can move the lines. We will defend two amendments to that end. The first is intended to facilitate access to information for holders of parental authority by means of the good practice charters provided for in Article 4. The second tends to include, among the objectives of the latter, the prevention of possible psychological risks arising from the exposure to which the child is subjected. Pedagogy and information are, we believe, the best tools to prevent the risks of these emerging practices to fulgurant development. We will support initiatives in this direction. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM Group welcomes the ambition of the bill, which is a great first, and the first step it represents, on a subject as essential as the protection of our children. The Internet cannot be an area of non-right. Our group will vote with conviction in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u45	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u46	While the Internet is a formidable area of freedom – this is usually our spontaneous acceptance of it – it can also be a risk factor, and lead to a challenge to our best established certainties, including the principle prohibition of child labour and our understanding of the very concept of work. Indeed, the production of content on the Internet has moved the lines, in particular with regard to the qualification of work – professional or amateur – and the distinction between work and leisure. It was important that, as a result of the urgent need to protect the best interests of the child – the value that unites us – the legislator take up the problem of commercial exploitation of the image of children on online platforms. Several trends, among the videos published online, have intrigued us. One example is the incredible "cheese challenge" video, which is to send slices of cheese to a child's face. Yes, there is! These videos can legitimately be denounced as carrying degrading images, falling within a form of proven abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u47	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u48	More generally, abuses have been reported in terms of working conditions – if you can say so – of children, often abusively induced by their parents to make videos with a view to earning sometimes significant income. We believe that this bill is in the right direction. Personally, I welcome the work of our colleague Studer. Moreover, he received the consent of all members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. [[Smile]] [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] We welcome the parliamentary initiative expressed in this text. However, you can count on me if you don't have a polemic! – we regret that this parliamentary initiative is not supported further when it comes from an opposition member. The method used is relevant in that it extends to these new developments an operational and protective regime, that of the children of the spectacle, which governs the activity of the children and provides them with deferred remuneration. Moreover, the spirit of the text is, rightly, incentive and pedagogical: it is in fact not a question of restraining creative activity on platforms, but of framing productions and encouraging virtuous practices. It is in this context that we will present in Article 4, which seeks to empower platform services, an amendment aimed at adding to the charters that they are obliged to adopt the obligation to inform minors in clear, precise and understandable terms of how the right to erasure of personal data is to be applied. As part of a comprehensive and healthy process of protecting children in the face of new uses of the Internet, the bill is undoubtedly a decisive step. We regret, however, that it does not allow for a more precise answer to the questions raised by children's exposure to the media and its possible consequences for their mental development. If I may insist on this point, it is that this subject, as well as the risk of cyber-harassment, was mentioned in the explanatory memorandum; However, unless I am mistaken, it has not been further developed in the body of the text. If the various actors – platforms, parents, spectators – are responsible, this is much less the case for the children themselves. As I said during the examination of the text in committee, it would probably be necessary to involve the Ministry of National Education and the educational community in the prevention of the risks of over-mediatization. This seems to us all the more important because it is a matter of protecting children both from the platforms and from their parents, who both benefit from their image. Beyond the particular case of influential children, all our children multiply the publications without necessarily being aware of their scope. We must warn them that, on the Internet, their actions are exposed and difficult to erase, since de-listing is never fully guaranteed. To govern the production and exploitation of content, which takes place mostly in a family and private context, the targeted information of the children themselves is a determining factor. Such information may be useful in a diffuse manner where the law has little visibility. If the child is a subject of attention, however, he or she is a person whose exercise of his or her rights would remain entirely disregarded if he or she did not receive rigorous and complete information about them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Despite this reservation, which is due less to a defect inherent in the text than to the multiple ramifications arising from its object, the Socialist and related group will support the bill and will remain attentive to future texts contributing to the protection of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u49	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u50	The IUD, Action and Independents Group welcomes the discussion of this text, which is the fruit of the parliamentary initiative on a very important subject. We are facing a new situation. Indeed, if the rise of digital technology gives rise to new uses, the speed with which these uses evolve does not coincide with the long time of the law. In this regard, the bill is part of the same approach as the bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, which we will have to consider in a few weeks' time. Children's videos have multiplied in recent years, without a legal framework limiting their abuse. The establishment of such a framework becomes a necessity given the scale of this activity: some channels reach several million video viewings, produce more than one video per day and generate significant revenues. The text extends a well-known device that works well for new uses, similar in some respects to the activity of the children of the show. The bill is part of a positive and pragmatic approach that should attract unanimity on these benches, as was the case in our committee debates. The same questions were asked for child models, children singers or children dancers. There is no objection to the fact that the labour law applicable to these children does not benefit youtuber children. Article 1 requires prior individual authorisation for the activity of staging a child on an online video-sharing platform where this is done for profit. Under Article 3, the activity is subject to a simple declaration when it is not for profit. The same article limits the activity of minors under 16 years of age, on the one hand, by defining a maximum hourly volume of participation in the realization of the content concerned, on the other hand, by limiting the income derived from the exploitation of their image. The proportion exceeding a threshold determined by decree will be paid to an account in the Caisse des dépôts et consignations until the child becomes a major. This ensures that children are not prohibited from engaging in leisure activities, while at the same time avoiding the possibility of an important and immediate source of income for parents. Article 4 empowers the platforms concerned by imposing new obligations on them, including the provision of information on the enforceable right. The IUD, Act, and Independent Group will present two amendments aimed at making information compulsory by the State authorities, either when obtaining the necessary authorisation or at the time of the declaration. This information should contain elements relating to the rights of the child with regard to the staging of the child in content published on online video sharing platforms. It seems to us essential that the information given by the platforms to users be coupled with information by the State services. Article 5 requires the services of the platform to withdraw the content referred to at the request of the data subject. However, what may be similar to a right to withdrawal cannot satisfy the person who requests it. It is simply for the service concerned to stop broadcasting that content on its platform. It is well known that once a content is published, it is almost impossible to erase it completely; This is why, as we propose, there is a need to strengthen the information of users. Finally, Article 6 provides for a financial penalty of €75000 in the event of non-compliance with the rules laid down in the text. The proposal of the Act largely relies on the decrees to determine the applicable thresholds, whether they relate to the hourly volume that children can make or the income that can be derived from the exploitation of the child's image without the excess being paid to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. If our group does not regret the use of the relevant decrees, on the one hand, because of the flexibility inherent in the regulatory act, on the other, because of the extremely rapid development of digital usages, we wonder at what level these thresholds will be set. Minister, do you have any estimates to submit to us? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The bill provides a subtle balance between the freedom to engage in this type of leisure and the requirement to protect our children by defining a framework that can limit abuse. The IUD Group, Action and thus independent in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u51	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u52	In recent years, video sharing platforms on the Internet – such as Instagram, YouTube or TikTok – have multiplied and their use has grown considerably, especially among younger people. Digital media and practices are changing very quickly. Thanks to the monetization of videos and partnerships with brands, in the form of product placements or promotional codes, some channels generate significant revenues – up to tens of thousands of euros per month for the most popular. Maud Petit gave some examples at the moment. However, contrary to the regime which applies to the children of the show, the hours and duration of the filming are not regulated by labour law. In addition, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, children under the age of 16 are regularly affected by forms of cyber-harassment. In order to protect individual freedoms and the safety of minors, we understand the issues involved in this bill to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms. It is in order to remedy the lack of a legal framework that the Libertés et Territoires Group supports this parliamentary initiative, despite certain reservations and doubts as to its effectiveness. The text requires that a production showing a minor under the age of 16 be carried out on the basis of an individual authorization or prefectural approval. It also provides for the creation of a framework for the dissemination of a child's image when his or her activity is outside the scope of labour law. More specifically, it creates a reporting regime when the length or number of videos exceeds a threshold set by decree in the Council of State or when the activity generates a significant income. The aim is to regulate the working hours of children and to protect them from potential exploitation, which is often not perceived as such as the activity is carried out in a family setting and, most certainly, without the intention of profiting from it. [[Smile]] We wonder about the possibility of enforcing working hours when these videos are most often shot in a family and private environment. I saw my own daughter do cooking tutorials from the age of 12 and I promise you that I have nothing to do with it. However, in order to avoid potential abuse, it seems legitimate that part of the remuneration be placed in an account of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations so that the child has access to it only by his or her majority. With regard to Article 4, we welcome the rewriting adopted in committee, which, if it reduces the scope of the text, also makes it more operational. In previous texts, such as the bill to combat hate content on the Internet, we have been in favour of greater accountability for digital platforms, provided that the objectives are achievable and credible. Article 4 initially provided that video sharing platforms would allow users to identify videos of children under 16 years of age, and regularly inform them of applicable laws in this area and the risks associated with them. The relaxation of Article 4 is welcome as these provisions seemed difficult to apply, in particular because video sharing platforms are often installed abroad. Finally, platforms will need to adopt a charter to improve user information, as well as the detection and reporting of content that would undermine the dignity or integrity of children under 16 years of age. However, we believe it is necessary to specify the competent administrative authority with which the platforms will have to cooperate. On the other hand, while we welcome the creation of a right to be forgotten for children, we regret that a deadline for withdrawal is not set. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You will have understood this: despite its doubts about the effectiveness of such a legal framework in the commercial exploitation of the image of children, the Libertés et Territoires group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u53	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u54	The Internet is constantly evolving. The advent of web 2.0 has led to the emergence of new media and platforms, allowing every Internet user to publish content and promote it around the world. Young generations, very fond of these new technologies, are particularly at risk. Your bill, which aims to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms, thus fills a legal gap and continues the reflections and legislative work already carried out in this area. The whole stake of this bill lies in its ability to compensate for the potential drifts of this new organization of work and the conditions under which it operates. To do this, you propose to apply the legislation in force for children of the show to those whose image is commercially exploited in online videos. If this is a step forward, all the complexity of the situation must be taken into account. The phenomenon of children highlighted on the Internet extends to many platforms, such as Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok or YouTube, with a wide variety of formats, such as the video – which we are dealing with here – the photo, or the stories. From accounts created on the initiative of parents or adolescents, it is possible to disseminate various content, which can be cultural, scientific, journalistic and more or less personal, especially when it comes to showing your daily life in video. The boundary between simple online sharing, popularity search or business is not always clearly displayed, while the notion of work is not always obvious. Some influencers manage to gain high visibility from online communities. This online reputation can be lucrative and coveted by communication companies or agencies that offer direct or indirect remuneration in exchange for promotional content. Beyond the commercial approach, the collection of personal data generated by video viewing is a significant source of profits for platforms. This issue, which is not addressed in your text, will be addressed in the future draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age; We will take our full place in this debate. Furthermore, children under 16 years of age who make videos with their parents are subjected to the same behavioural drifts as those observed on social networks: cyberaddiction, hypernarcissism, exacerbated competition, harassment, risk of isolation. In addition, the feeling of being potentially always observed and judged leads to behavioural changes and narrowing of the sphere of the intimate. In search of identity and recognition, children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable. As it stands, your bill does not take these risks into consideration. Finally, the responsibility of platforms needs to be strengthened. Indeed, companies in the new technologies sector invest a great deal in research and development, in order to be increasingly competitive and profitable, but are reluctant to pay moderators to control content because such an expenditure does not earn money. However, this role cannot be attributed exclusively to algorithms. The protection of minors is essential and the platforms have a duty to actively contribute to it. Unfortunately, in the new version of the text, articles 3 and 4, which aim precisely to empower platforms with regard to the control of online content involving minors, have been relaxed. The original coercive articles have been replaced by a charter or recommendations, which we regret. At a time when dialogue with platforms is still difficult – but necessary – incentive alone cannot be an effective means of regulation. Let us not be naive: faced with the monopoly of some of them and their powerful lobbies, we must not lower our heads, but show our political determination to enforce certain rules. If platforms are guided by the pursuit of profit, we must be guided by the general interest. And we can do this now – and that is our role – even if we clarify or adapt existing European law, which is not immutable. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] As you know, the group of La France was in favour of the original version of the text. In view of the changes made, we will allow ourselves the time for debate to decide the nature of our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u55	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u56	In the preamble, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wishes to welcome this legislative initiative, as these commercial videos that feature children have been expanding in recent years in our country. We therefore consider it necessary to legislate. American researcher Trebor Scholz denounces in this regard the dangers of "playbour" – the word "valise" combining the English words "play", "play", "play", and "labour", "work" – for the development and development of the child. This phenomenon also invites us to ask ourselves about the rise of the capitalism of the platforms, which upsets the forms of work organisation. The expression "platform capitalism" underscores the unequal sharing of value creation between the holders of the algorithms – the platforms – and the workers present on them. These workers, who are self-employed, make available not only their labour force but also part of the production tools. This new organization of work, far from giving autonomy to workers, de facto develops an exacerbated form of hardship for workers. Fortunately, there are children who, in these videos, can be at the origin of inspiring works of art or sharing know-how. They can create, play, sing, and that, of course, we do not want to deprive them of it. However, due to their greater vulnerability, there is a need to be more serious about management. Without this necessary framework, the digital world has the opportunity to bring about a new form of child labour, yet banned – as we have said – since the Declaration of the Principle of the Effective Elimination of Child Labour by the International Labour Organization in 1998. Because yes, it can be child labour. Indeed, the platform does not coordinate anything – in this case, parents are often the originators – but relies on actors to produce all its added value, in this case children. This is therefore a real value-creating work for platforms. Several examples have been cited, including that of a video that, by exceeding the 11 million viewings, can generate 10,000 euros of revenue. However, unlike the children of the show, the hours and duration of the shooting of these children are not regulated by labour law. This situation is all the more worrying since, on some channels, several videos can be posted every week. We therefore welcome the provisions of sections 1 and 3 of the proposed legislation. The central issue of data protection for minors should also be raised. The vulnerability of minors requires greater protection of such data, particularly in cases of overexposure on the Internet. The majority of the profits of these videos come from the data generated by behavioral analysis. These should be regarded as financial resources, and the minors who create them should be protected. Article 6 allows minors to exercise their right to erasure: this is a step forward. It should, in our view, be complemented by an assessment of the strengthening of data protection for minors since the introduction of the GDPR – the general data protection regulation –; That is the meaning of our amendment. Finally, many professionals denounce the disastrous impact of exposure on the Internet, when exacerbated, on the development and development of the child. The Education Observatory is concerned about this tendency to portray children; This is also our case. According to the Observatory, these daily videos can ultimately harm children's social life and leisure activities. I think everyone can see it around him: children need privacy. This overexposure on the Internet increases the risk of cyberharassment. We therefore consider that issues related to cyber-harassment require young people to learn good behaviour both upstream and downstream of the use of the Internet. Our amendment aims to make training in the use of digital tools and resources as well as training in cyber-harassment mandatory in all educational institutions in the national territory. On a related subject, we also consider that, in order to protect ourselves against the misuse of the Internet, our children must tame it. It is for this reason that we have repeatedly proposed – whenever we have had the opportunity – to encourage the use of free software and open formats in the public education service. The use of free software and open formats has major advantages. The free execution of software for all uses, the ability to adapt and enrich it, interoperability, scalability or sharing capabilities of the code are all characteristics specific to free software that guarantee genuine autonomy for large publishers, greater security, but also greater flexibility for publicly managed information systems. More transparency will in fact lead to greater safety for children, who will have greater control over the tools at their disposal. [[Mrs Muriel Ressiguier, Mrs Maud Petit and Mr Bruno Studer, rapporteur, applaud]] In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wishes to submit proposals in the context of the examination of the bill, but will give it a favourable vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u57	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u58	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the pioneering work carried out by the rapporteur and chairman of our Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Bruno Studer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u59	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u60	This bill to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms deals with a global phenomenon of society: that of "youtube children". Indeed, for many years, we have seen an increase in the number of channel creations and video broadcasts featuring children on public digital platforms. This resurgence of family videos shared on the Internet obliges us to react as legislators, in order to fill the legal vacuum that exists in French law and, in doing so, to better protect our children. These factual situations exist; we see them every day when we surf the internet, whether on different public platforms or on many social networks. It is also because it can generate significant income for parents and platforms. Some videos and channels have a very strong audience, with up to millions of subscribers and billions of views worldwide. I would like to recall that the primary purpose of this text is to protect the interests of children: it is not intended to authorize the work of minors, which is strictly prohibited and will remain so. The provisions of the bill are intended to create a new legal framework for children whose working relationship with their parents is not characterized. They extend the existing derogations to youtuber children, following the model of the regime applicable to children of the show and to children of mannequins, whose working relationship with their parents is established. The departments will thus be the main players in granting approval to parents and in making recommendations on how to make the videos available online, particularly with regard to the maximum daily and weekly durations desirable. On the other hand, we note that companies and major brands take full advantage of this new line and the reputation of some children in order to make product placement. However, in the present state of our law, the child who works does not enjoy any legal protection, nor is it assured that, once the income generated is greater, it will return to him. So he's in some way suffering a double penalty. In addition, although these videos often show a daily moment with the family, others, under the guise of challenging, ask questions. One example among many others is the "cheese challenge", which is to send slices of cheese to a child's face. This kind of challenge, designed to entertain the widest audience, takes the form of extremely degrading videos. In the United States, Upuesque cases, filmed and disseminated, have been used to identify cases of child abuse. These abuses are very worrying, and these moments immortalized and broadcast on the Internet raise many questions, mainly those of the child's interest and psychological development. For the time being, we do not have any setbacks on the psychological effects of this media exposure of children, on the increase in cyber-harassment of which they may be victims, or on the increase in child pornography to which they may be the target. As such, one of the strengths of the text is to provide for a right to digital oblivion. Called also right to erasure, it is now part of the fundamental rights with regard to the processing of personal data. It is thus foreseen that, at the request of the minor, the video(s) may be removed from the platform as soon as possible. This provision appears to be necessary and even indispensable. In conclusion, I would add that this bill is a pioneer in the protection of children's rights on the Internet: to date, no other state in the world has yet legislated on the subject. It is also part of a broader movement, initiated by our majority, including the votes of the bills on the fight against the manipulation of information and the fight against hatred on the Internet. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So, as with the vote in committee, I call on all Members to approve this bill unanimously. With regard to the La République en marche group, which has been engaged since the first day for the defence of children's rights, he will vote in favour of this text with great conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u61	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u62	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr rapporteur, on your bill, which deals with a major issue: the supervision of the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u64	Many platforms support online videos. YouTube, in particular, regularly describes itself as a video platform that is not intended for at least 13 years. But the reality is quite different: it is now used for commercial exploitation of children, through films that give rise to cheap remuneration and advertising, or even quasi-work, outside any legislative framework. This phenomenon of society, which you described earlier, the rapporteur, has developed particularly in recent years. The channels that broadcast videos featuring children – mostly filmed by their parents, as you said, minister – are sometimes followed by millions of subscribers. Some of them generate significant revenues, which can reach up to €50000 per month. This practice, called "vlogging" – a contraction of "video" and "blogging" – raises major legal questions about the protection of children's privacy and their exposure to advertising messages that are not always explicit and play on their influence. In fact, how could the legislator not worry about the protection of children in the face of video activities of particular interest, even because of their hourly volume? Or the overexposure of children to advertising, even though it is very framed on television or in cinema? Vlogging also raises the question of the framework of remuneration derived from advertising placement, advertisements and derivative products. The bill is part of a positive approach, since it will not prohibit this practice, but will provide more guidance, in order to preserve the psychological development of children as a result of such over-medicalization or over-exposure to screens. On the other hand, the tendency to want to expose their privacy more and more young is no longer limited to traditional social networks – Facebook, Snapchat or Instagram. This exhibition took other forms, especially the vlogging, which I was talking about right now. This is accompanied by strong social pressure and a race for "I love", "likes", as many views of a channel or video.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u65	[[Smile]] We want likes too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u66	Others actually run after the likes... [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Social pressure, the pursuit of fame and the pace it imposes are potentially devastating. They have a proven impact on children's health and development. The Republican Group believes that children are not meant to become telemarketers and that these practices must remain secondary. However, it appears that no framework protects against the risk of drifts. We are therefore particularly pleased with this strengthening of legislation and with the establishment of a system that has proved its worth, the one applicable to child modeling. This text will provide an additional tool for child protection associations to refer cases to administrative authority or justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u68	In addition, it will secure the decisions taken by the judge, which to date have no legal basis. This is the case with Article 1, which aims to extend the children's entertainment regime, and Article 4, which will require the platforms to adopt charters, under the auspices of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel. Article 3 also seeks to strengthen the legal framework by setting a video volume and a threshold of income from which the dissemination activity will have to be declared to the administrative authority. We welcome these provisions, which will provide a framework for working hours and guarantee remuneration through payments to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. It should be remembered that today nothing guarantees the perception of the least euro to a child who has participated in the filming of videos giving rise to compensation. Article 4, on the accountability of online platforms, has been fully rewritten in committee. As a result of these changes, the regime will be less burdensome for platforms as one moves from a system of obligations to a system of recommendations. We regret it: if we are committed to freedom on the Internet, it is also our responsibility as legislator to guarantee protection to the most fragile, in the face of the lure of gain and potentially important and seemingly easy remuneration. Finally, children must enjoy the right to forget, as well as adults, who increasingly invoke it. Once they have reached the age of majority, they must be able to obtain, if they request it, the disappearance of these videos. In this regard, article 5 represents a significant step towards more rights for video authors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Bruno Studer, rapporteur, and Mrs Maud Petit also applaud]] In conclusion, the Republicans express their support for the bill and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u69	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u70	Rather consensual, the purpose of this bill is to frame the many videos that feature minors, often in young age. These flourish on social networks. Whether they are sports videos, challenges or private life scenes, they are most often filmed by parents and then posted on platforms, YouTube in the lead. The text we are looking at today is expected, because it will make it possible to empower not only the parents – by giving them a clearer legal framework specifying what they can broadcast and the conditions under which they can do so – but also the platforms that publish the said videos. In addition, it will provide a framework for companies that use children to promote their products. The improvements proposed here are all the more necessary in view of the fact that families most often feel that these activities are solely a matter of leisure and entertainment for their children. This is true in some situations, but when remuneration, subordination and work provision are clearly established, these activities can be equated with disguised work, as was pointed out in the committee. The rules of labour law should then be applied to them. The commercial exploitation of the image of children concerns not only the parliamentarians we are, but also, and it is happy, the economic actors of the sector, since the Fédération française des industries toy-puériculture, the FJP, launched, a few days ago, a "Charter of good practices of collaboration with minor influencers".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u71	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u72	Michel Moggio, Managing Director of the FJP, said: "The development of video sharing platforms has brought new communication techniques such as the influence, particularly popular in the case of the toy, where children unpack, comment and try toys in videos recorded by their parents. It has been essential for the toy industry to have a ethical framework that helps protect the child. » This effort fully echoes your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur, since it advocates a form of self-discipline on the part of online platforms, with a view to better managing and controlling the massive growth of this type of video. The FJP's initiative is all the more encouraging as it seems to be a genuine collective awareness of the need to protect the interests of children. The aim is indeed to establish cooperation, in particular with the Fédération des commerces spécialisés des toys et des produits de l'enfant, in order to verify a number of points before any collaboration with a child: compliance with the rules laid down by the Autorité de régulation professionnelle de la adverte, i.e. the mention that the content disseminated is sponsored by a brand; Respect for the interests and integrity of the child – freedom of choice, education and irreproachable content must take precedence; respect for filming schedules; in the case of remuneration, the child's registration in a mannequin agency. This is a way of anticipating the legislative framework outlined in your proposed legislation for this sector. Nevertheless, it goes further in some respects. I am thinking in particular of Article 1, which seeks not only to apply the modeling regime to youtuber children, but also to require an individual authorisation issued by the administrative authority or a prefectural approval. I am also thinking of the requirement for platforms to remove non-compliant videos as quickly as possible; It's obviously a good thing. It is also appropriate to provide that the income generated by these videos will be placed in an account at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, as is the case for the children of the show. In fact, these children sometimes raise spectacular sums – enough to push their childhood and their education. On the other hand, the wording of Article 4 seems to me to be risky. The Explanatory Memorandum suggests that a real framework and strict constraints will be imposed on the platforms. In fact, this is more of an invitation to combat the illegal commercial exploitation of images of children. It seems paradoxical to me to impose on the platforms extremely binding obligations on hate content, for example, but simple recommendations when it comes to the protection of our children. Despite these reservations, I will vote for the bill. However, it can be feared that it will not be easily applicable, given the huge number of videos published, which is not likely to decrease...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u73	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u74	I would like to give some answers already, even before we begin our consideration of the amendments. I thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for the content of your remarks, regardless of the benches on which you sit. Thank you very much, Mrs. Petit, for your unconditional support. I know you are very committed to this cause, and I look forward to seeing you with me. I fully agree with you, Mrs Tolmont: it is necessary for the Ministry of National Education to work on this issue. MPs sometimes go to classrooms to explain their role. However, in recent times, when I indicated that we were going to legislate on this subject and that I was quoting the names of influential children, all the students knew them, while school teachers or college teachers discovered the phenomenon. An acculturation of adults in national education is therefore necessary, in order for them to be familiar with the networks and practices in question. For my part, I have the chance to be regularly acclaimed by my children... In any case, it is difficult to be up-to-date, and this is a real challenge for national education. Mrs Descamps, we will have the opportunity to come back to your proposals when we consider the amendments. Thank you also for your support, Mr. Favennec Becot. Ms. Kuster responded in part to your questions: the text is intended to make additional tools available to the departmental authority, which is responsible for child protection, and, where appropriate, to the judge. Such tools did not exist to date. They will also be available to child protection associations. In the last few months, some of them have wanted to go to court, but the procedure has not been successful because of the lack of a legal framework. Of course, the law will have to be monitored. I leave it to you, Minister, to answer the question that Mrs Descamps asked about the Orders in Council. I will also pay attention to their publication. The reference to decrees has an advantage, that of flexibility, knowing that we still have relatively little knowledge of the phenomenon in question. The provisions of Article 4 in its new wording will enable us to better understand it. Thank you too for your comments, Mrs Faucillon. I fully agree with you on one point: it is not a question of banning new forms of artistic creation or expression, nor of entrepreneurship – even if you are not likely to acquiesce in the use of this last term; It is a matter of establishing rules. After all, this practice makes it possible to bring out talents, artists, which thus become autonomous. As far as the rules are concerned, Mrs Ménard, you mentioned the charter that the FJP has just published, as we begin this debate in the Chamber. Personally, I do not see this as a result of chance, but I am pleased that the bill is already moving things forward. I also thank you, Mrs Ressiguier, and understand some of the reservations you have expressed. At first, I myself was very maximalist in some of my proposals. However, I have given priority to a system which seemed to me to be more effective and respectful, as I wish, of European law. In this regard, Mr Minister, I appeal to you: we must, in the coming months, put our full weight in the discussion of the new directive announced by the European Commission on this subject. This will be an opportunity to address the question of territoriality: we should not penalise platforms which, because they are hosted in France, would become the only sanctionable ones; That is why I have proposed a new wording for Article 4. With regard to the implementation of Article 5, you can see that we have found a solution that tends to tighten the penalties applicable to platforms. I therefore hope to convince you again, Mrs Ressiguier, to vote with us for this text, which places France, I remind you, in the position of initiator.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u75	Yes, leader!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thank you, Minister, and your office, for the unwavering support you have given me in the work I have done here – with Chloé Marchand, whom I would like to thank in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u77	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u78	I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, the rapporteur of this bill, and the Members who have contributed, within the framework of the committee, to the co-operation of the text in the best possible way. We will continue to do so when we consider the amendments. To answer Béatrice Descamps' question, the threshold triggering the obligations must indeed be set by decree, but we have not yet conducted a precise evaluation. An impact assessment will be required. We will of course work in consultation with the various actors to be as fair as possible and to set the threshold at the most effective level in order to achieve the objective of this bill. As regards the withdrawal period within the framework of the right to be forgotten, Mr Favennec Becot, it is provided for in the 1978 law, which deals with data protection. The platform has a month to respond to a withdrawal request; At the end of this period, in the absence of a response from the platform or even if the latter has responded, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – can be seized and has three weeks to decide. We will be able to enter further into the details of the arrangements if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u79	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u80	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u81	I am pleased that the National Assembly is now considering this extremely important bill dealing with an activity that is still sometimes poorly considered, and in particular with its regulation when it is carried out by minors. Article 1 of this bill sets out a framework for young online videographers under the age of 16, whose activity is considered to be work. It is proposed to align the status of these so-called "youtubers" with the status already existing of the children of the show. It is not a question of coercing to ban, but rather of framing to protect. Indeed, this bill does not concern young youtubeurs who start creating content out of passion, and whose talent and work lead them to reach a vast community of hundreds of thousands of spectators. Videographers such as Michou or Jensuispasjolie, who are now major, have built a success for themselves and from an early age that can only force admiration. This bill is not intended for them, but for young children used by their parents, mainly motivated by profit-seeking, to make videos broadcast online. Again, it is not a question of forcing to ban, but of framing to protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u82	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u83	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr Bertrand Bouyx also applauds]] As I have already said in the general discussion, we welcome this Article 1, which recognises the work done by children making videos – this is not the case at the moment when there are provisions for mannequins or extras on film or television. This is therefore an important step forward, which I would like to stress. An individual authorization or prefectural approval will also be required to employ a minor under the age of 16 as part of a for-profit production for video sharing platforms. We will of course vote on Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u84	We come to the amendments to the article. Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u85	Article 1 makes the activity covered by this bill subject to individual prior authorisation. However, it is essential that information on the rights of the child be provided by the State authorities in conjunction with authorization. Our group believes that the adoption by the video sharing platform services of a charter promoting user information is not sufficient. It is important for us that this information or communication include, among other things, information "on the consequences of exposing a child's image on a video-sharing platform for his or her privacy and on the provisions of applicable laws and regulations regarding the dissemination of the image of children under the age of 16". This information is often unknown and may continue to be ignored. A few weeks ago, we voted for Mrs Provenier's motion for a resolution on the inclusion of children's rights in the work of the National Assembly. I believe that our amendment is perfectly in line with this approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u87	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Kuster once again, since I had already done so for her answer to a question raised earlier by Mr Favennec Becot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u88	[[Smile]] We're complementary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u89	I know, Mrs Kuster, how much you have given us unwavering support in this work, as well as in your group as a whole, and I thank you again for that. I am in favour of the possibility mentioned by Mrs Descamps, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Provendier for having defended a motion for a resolution on the attention given by the National Assembly to the rights of the child, which is precisely the result of this bill. To be very precise, Amendment No 1 should also deal with accreditation, which is intended to better deal with these situations. To the extent that the bill has not completed its legislative process, I propose to adopt Mrs Descamps' amendment to anchor this idea in the text and to incorporate it into the approval procedure in the shuttle. Positive opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u91	I fully agree with Mrs Descamps' objective, but this kind of obligation falls rather within the regulatory sphere. However, I agree with the rapporteur's methodology and rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly. As far as the accreditation procedure is concerned, we will have to calibrate things by distinguishing between what is covered by the law and what is covered by the regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u92	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No 12, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u93	The use of the image of children under 16 years of age for commercial purposes requires special management so that the various actors, both those who publish and those who watch, become aware of the professional nature of the videos in question. Indeed, personal and professional spheres often intertwine, so that their distinction may seem ambiguous. For example, parents can use an intimate gaming moment to make a product placement. These situations should therefore be clarified: this is the purpose of this amendment. There are already professional accounts on many platforms such as Instagram, Facebook or YouTube. Currently, everyone can create one very easily. These accounts generally offer more options. The rules of use vary according to the platforms; Thus, on YouTube, as soon as online activity generates income, an activity declaration is required from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, or directly on the Internet for a micro-enterprise. We propose to make mandatory the use of professional accounts on online platforms for any video related to a commercial or advertising approach involving children under 16 years of age. These professional accounts will have to mention the approval or permanent authorisation number issued by the prefecture, which will make it easier to identify them. As a result, the separation between the personal life of children and working life will be established, both for the parents and for the children themselves. This will make it possible to distinguish between work and leisure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u95	I understand your proposal, but the concept of a personal or professional account is not defined today. I therefore believe that your proposal is not entirely ripe, if you will allow me to put it that way. We could continue to work with the platforms for an account certification – that would be quite possible – and for a kind of labeling that allows parents to highlight the fact that their videos were made in compliance with the law. Rather, this would require an amendment to section 4. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment, even though in the coming weeks I shall be working on this proposal which, once again, seems to me interesting and to be excavated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u96	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 30 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u97	The purpose of this amendment is to replace the obligation to withdraw content in the event of a lack of authorisation by referral to the judge in interim proceedings. It gives the administrative authority, when it identifies videos whose main object is a child under the age of 16 who is posted on a platform without that child's obtaining the required authorization, the opportunity to refer the matter to the judge. This procedure will therefore enable the court to determine the measures most appropriate to each situation, in particular on the basis of the information transmitted to it by the competent administrative authority. Such a procedure, which involves the judge in deciding, inter alia, on the possible withdrawal of content, seems more likely to ensure the reconciliation between the preservation of freedom of expression and the protection of minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u99	This amendment seems to me to be a step in the right direction: Article 2 would be more effective if justice could decide directly and order a measure that is necessary both on the platforms, of course, and on the parents, if any. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u100	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u101	It seems to me essential to supervise the commercial exploitation of the image of minors under the age of 16 on online platforms, as proposed in this bill. The consensus on all the benches is evidence of the need to legislate in order to overcome a harmful legal vacuum, in particular by creating an appropriate legal regime. This has been pointed out by my colleagues in the Republican Group, particularly Brigitte Kuster, who have always supported the provisions to this effect when they were not themselves on the initiative. Indeed, we see the enthusiasm of our compatriots and, more generally, of all the netizens for these videos featuring children, as well as the devastating effects that the omnipresence of screens and the staging on their lives can have. However, as we know, the Internet is capable of both the best and the worst; It is an area of freedom that must not be ridiculed with irresponsibility, especially when dealing with the subject of child labour. In this context, I believe that the right to be forgotten in the following article is fundamental. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Article 3 provides a framework for the dissemination of a child's image on video sharing platforms where this activity does not fall within the scope of labour law. It also secures financial compensation for children. If the latter are not meant to become telemarketers and if these practices must remain secondary, this new protection nevertheless seems important to me. But – as always, there is a "but" – it seems to me that in committee, we have lowered the level of requirement and adopted a status that is less protective than that provided for in the original version of the text. We have moved from daily and weekly periods determined by decree in the Council of State to recommendations. We regret it, but it's always better than nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u102	I call Mr Denis Masséglia to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u103	The number and duration of videos posted on sharing platforms is not enough to indicate the time children actually spend in front of the camera. A video of a few minutes can, in reality, be the fruit of several hours of shooting. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to strengthen the threshold principle beyond which this activity is to be declared.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u105	I fully understand the purpose of your amendment, but I have no choice but to accept the amendments introduced by the committee, which Mr Minot recalled. Indeed, since the data referred to here is hardly objectifiable, even for the parents, I preferred to retain an objective criterion, easily measurable, including by the administration if it were to carry out checks, and even if the aim is to obtain an indication of the time spent by the child in the production of these videos in a family setting. That is why I am asking you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I can only give an unfavorable opinion, even if I do not ignore the questions that this position may give rise to. There is a question of individual freedom that must also be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u107	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u108	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u109	I withdraw my amendment in view of the fact that these data are not objectivable. I therefore expect that your opinion will be in favour of my amendment No 23, which we are going to consider shortly and which is, however, objectionable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u110	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u111	We must respect the rhythm of life of children, which is not the same as that of adults, and priority must be given to schooling and rest periods. When these children are highlighted on online platforms, it is necessary to properly frame the duration of the production of content for the networks. The initial text of article 3, II, provided that a decree in the Council of State should set maximum daily and weekly durations, thus preserving the well-being of the child. In the new version of the text, the term "recommendation" leaves the door open to abuse of the participation of children and does not guarantee respect for their rights and well-being. That is why our amendment seeks to return to the original text, which is more protective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u113	I understand your position all the better since it was mine a short time ago! But my bill evolved like all the proposals, and I was convinced by the relevance of some arguments that pointed to the risk of unconstitutionality of a mechanism that would frame a mere leisure activity. The solution we are proposing will help to frame this grey area, which is neither work nor leisure. That is why, even if I understand the logic of your amendment, I will give an unfavorable opinion. Here, too, it is important to strike a balance between these principles of constitutional value, namely the protection of the best interests of the child and individual freedom, especially of parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u116	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u117	I still find it difficult to understand this somewhat perilous exercise which sees a rapporteur calling for a vote against an amendment with which he agrees – this is the case here, since this amendment wishes to return to your original text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u118	I changed my mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u119	... and that it is in every respect in line with your wish to ensure the protection of the child in all its aspects, whether it be during the work or in his or her life environment, whether it be his or her values or future remuneration, and above all to supervise the platforms. For our part, we will vote in favour of this amendment, because it seems obvious to us that it helps to give meaning to your original text. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u120	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u121	Our work is based on a text that is binding on all the French, the Constitution, and it is in consideration of the need to ensure a balance between these various principles that the committee voted for this text, which already goes much further than what existed before, since there was nothing. That is why I call for a vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u122	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u123	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u124	I can only agree with what the chairman of the committee has said. We all hope that this text will be voted on and implemented. However, the adoption of this amendment, of which I understand and share the objective, could put the bill at risk of censorship for breaching the constitutional principle of freedom of expression. If it turns out that the excessive length of some filming had an impact on the well-being of the child, the child welfare services would then play their part. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that sometimes the best is the enemy of the good, and especially with regard to this amendment, which seems to us to present a real risk of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u125	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u126	As we have said, even if it is less good than it was originally, we intend to vote on this proposal, because it is a step forward, even if it is minimal. It seems to me, however, that, unlike the opposition, the majority has the means to verify, in conjunction with the minister's office, whether this article was unconstitutional in its original wording. So do not tell us that there are risks of unconstitutionality: either you have verified that such risks exist, or you have not, and in this case you must tell us why.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u128	If I tell you that we believe that there is a risk of unconstitutionality, it means that our services believe that this is unconstitutional and that, if it were before the Constitutional Council, this would be the case, but it is up to the Constitutional Council to decide freely and sovereignly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u129	As long as it's not the Council of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u130	Our analysis is that if the Constitutional Council were to look at this text for various reasons, its decision would be detrimental to the proper implementation of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u131	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u132	It is not because this will not be written in the text that we will not be able to trigger controls. On the contrary, the law makes available to the child protection or the judge a number of tools that will enable to verify on a case-by-case basis what is happening in the lives of these children. In this, it seems to me effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u133	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u134	In line with our first amendment to provide information at the time of granting prior individual authorisation, we propose that the same information be provided at the time of the declaration provided for in Article 3. I stress that it is essential for us that the State services provide information on the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u135	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u136	The purpose of this amendment is to raise awareness among holders of parental authority about the risks, including psychological risks, associated with the distribution of videos exposing their children's lives, particularly for those who discover the codes and practices of the professional world with regard to digital technology. The administrative authority will thus be able to inform them on the ins and outs, and therefore on the risks, of such an exhibition on the Internet. A warning is needed to raise awareness of the importance of protecting the rights of these influential children on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u138	Since these two amendments are not entirely the same, the opinion will be different. Unless you withdraw it, Mrs Descamps, it will be against the wording you are proposing, since it de facto deletes the recommendations that I propose for the benefit of simple information. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of your proposal, Mrs Petit, which is a useful complement to mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u139	What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 4?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u140	This amendment is indeed the best drafted of both. However, I will give only one opinion of wisdom, and this provision seems to me to be within the scope of the regulation rather than of the law, but on the substance I agree with the objective sought.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u141	I call Mr Denis Masséglia to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u142	I come back with an "objectivable" amendment! In the case where filming a child is really a leisure activity and not a job, the pursuit of profit is not at the heart of this activity: the income that parents derive from it must therefore be minimal. This amendment is intended to discourage parents who are primarily motivated by the lure of gain when they start making videos featuring their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u144	I think, dear Denis Masséglia, that flexibility must be given to the scheme in order to take account of each particular case. By its uniformity, the solution you are proposing is not entirely effective, with regard to moving forward in what is, I repeat, a grey area. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u146	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u147	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u148	[[Smile]] The Member I am still seeking consensus, so I am ready to withdraw my amendment, convinced that the two steps I have taken towards you will allow you to take a step towards me in my next amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u149	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u150	Accountability for the platforms that this article aims to implement is desirable. It provides for video sharing platforms to adopt charges aimed at strengthening the fight against the illegal exploitation of images of children under the age of 16 for commercial purposes. This provision has been completely rewritten in committee. While the LR group can only subscribe to it, it regrets that the scheme finally adopted is less restrictive for platforms, since it has moved from an obligation system to a charter. The concern for efficiency and flexibility, in your opinion, Mr rapporteur, should not make us forget the best interests of the child and the need to protect him. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. - Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I have no doubt, however, that we will be able to maintain an agreement on this text before we consider texts that divide us. You will notice, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that when a text goes in the right direction, the first opposition group does not hesitate to vote on it, without special instructions and without sectarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u151	I have before me two amendments, Nos 15 and 18, which may be put to a joint debate. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u152	The original text of article 4 more strictly covered the identification of publications in which children under the age of 16 appeared. This text had the merit of allowing users to report any content involving children while informing broadcasters of the content about their rights and duties and of the sanction they would incur if they failed to comply with those obligations. The aim of the text was also to frame the revenues derived directly from the broadcast of audiovisual content by obliging the platforms to report any commercialization of images of children of which they would be aware, with the praiseworthy aim of preserving the child's physical and moral integrity. Indeed, children can be used without being aware of it. This amendment is intended to restore the original text of Article 4, which was more protective, by keeping the term "obligations" instead of "recommendations".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u153	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u154	The purpose of this bill is to protect the best interests of the child. In this perspective, instead of a charter, the limited scope of which may be feared, it seems to me more appropriate to require the platforms to follow the roadmap set out by the original wording of the article. This new wording of Article 4, which aims to empower video sharing platforms, is probably less effective and efficient than its original wording to which I propose to return.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u156	If this provision is theoretically more protective, it is not legally protective. Indeed, it is not applicable to YouTube, for example, because this platform does not depend on French legislation but on another European country. I am in compliance with European legislation, and in particular with the e-commerce directive which sets out the liability regime for platforms – and perhaps we have a political disagreement on this, honourable Member. As I have already indicated, I would like to see work carried out in this area across the European Union in the coming months. Article 4 as I propose it, as adopted by the committee and as it will be usefully supplemented by an amendment by the Government on the role of the CSA and, tomorrow, by ARCOM – the Broadcasting and Digital Communications Regulatory Authority – is more effective than the original wording that I had envisaged, since it will make it possible to reach a larger number of platforms. I would be happy to call on you to withdraw your amendment, but I fear that it will be a complete loss. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion; In fact, if this amendment seems to be more protective in theory, it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u158	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u159	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u160	Who can do the least! I do not understand the argument that charters would be more protective than recommendations. We are in the process of relaxing a text that was clear and precise, and which was unanimous in committee – which is not negligible. I regret that his examination in session leads to lightening and "undressing" him to the detriment of the rights of the child. I find it difficult to understand that the child's working time can be unconstitutional. Of course, I am not a lawyer, but it seems to be common sense that a child should not work during school time and on weekends! This text has been worked on by the rapporteur, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education; it has been prepared and validated upstream. We have some disappointment at the fact that a proposal that has received general agreement has been lightened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u161	We're detricting the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u162	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u163	We must certainly comply with European directives, but could we not impose more restrictive measures on platforms which depend solely on French law, while the charter would concern platforms established abroad, such as YouTube? We would then secure the practices of French platforms, while taking account of European law – since European platforms would be subject to a charter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u164	We can both make a charter and recommendations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u165	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u166	We can indeed impose very strong constraints on a French platform such as Dailymotion, whose operation is not in common with YouTube – the publication of content by users is not the rule – and let American or foreign platforms fall behind European legislation! We have had ample opportunity to question the European legal framework, and we will continue to do so in the coming months. As we will see earlier, it is proposed to give new authority and means to the regulator, the CSA today and ARCOM tomorrow. It will establish an annual review of practices, which will put pressure on platforms. This, in my view, is the most effective means; I therefore ask you to trust me and follow me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u167	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u168	I fully agree with the rapporteur. Let us not lose sight of our objective: to vote on this bill and make it as effective as possible. The digital and platform environment is complex; It asks to take into account multiple elements: the right balance between rights and freedoms, national legislation and European legislation. We need to weigh the regulation of platforms, in a context where some are self-regulating, others are subject to flexible regulation and others are monitored by the regulator, or even by obligations clearly laid down in the law. In the light of European legislation, the best way to achieve our objective is to use a charter and entrust new means to the APF to ensure its proper application. This position is the result of a reflection carried out with the rapporteur, the Assembly's departments, the ministry's teams, the Government and the deputies – because, as I recall, the work of the committee has led to the solution of the charter. At the same time, we are working substantively with the Commission and the European Parliament to strengthen the regulation of so-called structuring platforms. We could lead to an even more ambitious legal response at European level, which will allow us to strengthen French legislation by means of a new transposition. In the current state of European legislation, let us ensure that we do not create a breach of equality in the treatment of French and foreign platforms, while maintaining the strong ambition to achieve our objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u169	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u170	It aims to provide the CSA with new means to support video-sharing platforms in formalizing commitments – in other words, charters – to fight more effectively against the commercial exploitation of the image of sixteen-year-olds and to detect situations at risk for these minors. Such support should promote the signing of good practice charters so that users are better informed, alerts are facilitated and close work is done with child protection associations. This will enable the platforms to develop the most appropriate solutions, building on the recommendations of the APF. Thanks to its power to collect information, this regulator – which the future audiovisual law will transform into ARCOM – will look carefully at the measures adopted by the platforms and their effectiveness. It will report publicly through regular reviews.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u172	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u173	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u174	It aims to clarify the content of the platform charters, integrating the psychological consequences of the exposure of minors' privacy and the possible risks associated with the dissemination of their image. On some social networks there are accounts or pages dedicated to the lives of babies, which feature young children in their daily lives and which can be the subject of partnerships with brands. This permanent exposure to the child's intimate life can have long-term consequences for the child's image and privacy. However, as stated in article 16 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, "no child shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his or her privacy, family, home or correspondence, or to unlawful attacks on his or her honour and reputation".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u176	He is in favour – and in this I once again agree with the concern expressed earlier by Mrs Faucillon: intimacy must take precedence over the temptation of virality. This privacy must be protected, and we must call on parents to preserve it. Each and every one of us must be held accountable for the desire, which animates us all, to share content. Caution should be exercised when dealing with children. This project will probably take us many more years, but it is worth it. By introducing this bill, it was respect for the privacy of children that led me above all, beyond defending the interests of the youngest children in terms of their education or the benefits generated by their online presence. The privacy of children must be safeguarded, and I am pleased that we are moving forward together in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u178	I can only agree with this amendment, which aims to strengthen charters and protect minors from the psychological risks associated with using their image online.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u179	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u180	I would like to welcome Bruno Studer's initiative to introduce a bill that will frame a practice that violates the rights of the child, and that opens up a broader reflection on the place of the child in the digital world. The amendment that I am submitting to you seeks to guarantee the right to the protection of children's personal data. The GDPR stresses the vulnerability of children and considers that they deserve "specific protection with regard to their personal data because they may be less aware of the risks, consequences and rights associated with the processing of their personal data". When the interests of the child are balanced with the legitimate interests of the data controller, the best interests of the child must always prevail. That is why we believe it is necessary to prohibit the processing, for commercial purposes, of personal data that the platforms could collect through the reporting of audiovisual content that includes a child under 16 years of age. Pursuant to Article 6a of the Directive on audiovisual media services, known as the SMA Directive, the activation of parental control systems results in a ban on the processing of personal data for commercial purposes, such as stalling, profiling, advertising based on behavioural targeting, etc. We hope that the same prohibition will be applied here for the same purposes: child protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u182	It seems to me useful to draw inspiration from the SMA directive, as you propose, by encouraging platforms not to use possible user alerts for advertising targeting purposes. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u184	I agree with Mrs Provenier's objective, but I do not think the wording of this amendment is fully robust. I therefore rely on the wisdom of your congregation. From the perspective of the audiovisual bill, we could consolidate this proposal from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u185	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u186	In order to combat the illegal commercial exploitation of children under the age of 16, this article proposes to empower video sharing platforms by encouraging them to adopt charters. In view of the current difficulty in bringing these steps to fruition, and in order to best protect children, it seems necessary that these charters facilitate the exercise of the right to erasure of personal data, and that minors be informed of the way in which this right is applied in simple and precise terms. That is common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u188	I very much support your amendment, Mrs Tolmont. You are a useful extension of Article 5, which allows minors to exercise their right to the erasure of personal data: they still need to know, and this right is easy to assert.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u189	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u190	This article creates for everyone, including minors, a form of right to forget about videos featuring minors. In recent years, awareness of the risks associated with the Internet has increased; the idea of a right to digital oblivion has taken shape. This right is already included in article 40 of the so-called "informatics and freedoms" law, but it may indeed be interesting to insist on this possibility for videos involving children. Family YouTube channels run by parents are often about their children, sometimes very young. These videos published on the platform generate income that can be important, for the benefit of parents. Such practices raise questions, especially ethical ones: these parents are ready to expose to the internet the image of their children, filmed in family intimacy, in order to obtain income from them. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Admittedly, the Internet is a particular area of freedom, which must be preserved; Of course, freedom to undertake is essential. However, it cannot be practiced at the expense of the most fragile. However, protecting vulnerable people is well within the mandate of the legislator, even if he cannot forget that parents should be more responsible, and minors should be better trained about the traces they leave on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u191	I have before me two amendments, Nos 19 and 16, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u192	I propose by this amendment to replace the words "as soon as possible" with the words "a period of 24 hours". In fact, it is paradoxical that the proposed law to combat hate content on the Internet imposes a 24-hour time limit on the platforms to withdraw the content, although it does not set a specific time limit for them to remove the videos in question. Therefore, this amendment seeks to remedy what I believe to be an inconsistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u193	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u194	When a person wishes, in order to preserve himself, the removal of videos where he appears minor, this text only obliges broadcasting platforms to remove them "as soon as possible". This wording leaves to each person the possibility of applying the time limit of his or her choice, without taking into account the respect due to the applicant. One can fear that a video sharing platform will soon remove those that bring it a lot of views and thus continue to commercialize the image of children. As the European text on these platforms remains vague in this area, we believe it is essential to clarify this deadline by giving broadcasters 14 days – as you can see, we are generous – to remove the reported content. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u195	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u196	Mrs Ménard, twenty-four hours, it seems to me excessive: such deadlines are now imposed only for extremely serious offences. This does not mean that there can be no serious situations in this area, but section 51 of the Computer and Freedoms Act 1978 contains, Mrs Ressiguier, a number of provisions which the minister began to talk about earlier – I do not know if he wishes to set out the mechanism. These provisions include the possibility for the data subject to enter the CNIL if the data in question have not been deleted within one month. Therefore, the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u198	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u199	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u200	I wanted to make a few comments on the drafting of this article. First, the phrase "as soon as possible" can be interpreted in a very different way: twenty-four hours may be too short; Fourteen days, maybe it's a little long. It would have been interesting if in the course of our discussions the intention of the legislator appeared more precisely, in order to avoid the case law ever interpreting this provision in a way, if I may say, orthogonal to what we had in mind. [[Smile]] Secondly, we could have talked about blocking the virality of these videos, preventing them from being shared, which, even before they were withdrawn, limits the impact on the person concerned. This issue was discussed in the discussion of the bill to combat hate on the Internet. In memory, the colleague responsible for this amendment belonged to the majority group, so that I am preaching here for the parish of the majority, whose publicity is not very good at the moment... Thirdly, article 5 is formulated in such a way that it refers to the person concerned, including a minor, but not to his or her parents. Is that to say that they have the same right, that this right is sitting on other texts, and that you did not wish to reintroduce it? That's how I intuitively understand this writing, but I wanted to make sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u201	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u202	On this last point, I can very much reassure you: parents are also concerned. As far as the deadline is concerned, we have a framework, set by the 1978 law: after a month, we can seize the CNIL and get the withdrawal in three weeks. However, this is not about offences such as the dissemination of child pornography, terrorists, or hate speech. It is therefore important to maintain some flexibility; Once again, flexibility is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u203	The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Studer, has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u204	This will allow me, I hope, to convince Mrs Ressiguier that the deletion of certain provisions does not necessarily lead to a so-called "less". I propose to delete Article 6, on the one hand, because the rewriting carried out in committee has deprived of the object of the sanction of Article 4, on the other hand because, with regard to the right to the erasure of personal data, higher penalties, up to 2% of the world's turnover, are provided for by the Law of 6 January 1978 on computer science, files and freedoms. Article 5 allows minors to exercise this right themselves without parental authorization. It is therefore a more so-called within what already exists; That is why I propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u205	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u206	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u207	We all agree that today, the platforms are primarily seeking to collect data, that this is the most profitable. And we all express our will to protect minors, or at least to have an increased concern for their vulnerability. The reports sometimes provide the opposition with a means of putting forward a particular subject. This amendment therefore proposes that, within six months of the enactment of this text, a report be submitted to Parliament assessing the strengthening of data protection for minors since the entry into force of the GDPR. It enhances the consent and transparency of the use of data, in particular of minors, dealt with in the first paragraph of its article 8. The time has come to assess its effectiveness and to discern possible improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u209	This is the exception that confirms the rule. Usually, reporting requests are the subject of an unfavorable opinion, especially when there is inflation of these requests – these are things that happen... In this case, the subject is quite interesting, and even crucial: the committee's opinion will therefore be favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u211	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u212	I call Mr Denis Masséglia to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u213	[[Smiles and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Smile]] I count on your indulgence in my proposal: we always say "yes" to the last amendment. And thank you, Mr. Aubert, for advertising La République en marche. It was very nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u214	But don't count on me to strengthen your ranks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u215	Members of Parliament, you're used to losing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u216	Dear colleague, we are listening to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u217	We are still looking forward to you! Now, excuse me, I have a little work to do... This bill establishes, among other things, a reporting obligation for the distribution of videos showing minors under the age of 16. It therefore appears necessary to grant a period of time to those already engaged in this activity in order to bring them into conformity with the provisions laid down in that text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u219	Never two without three, Congressman! I am in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u220	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u221	We wanted to vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u223	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Masséglia, you have shown a very constructive attitude since the beginning of the discussion, and you know how much I am attached to it. I will therefore give an opinion in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u224	Oh, there! It's hugging!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u225	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u226	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Bertrand Sorre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u227	This has been repeated throughout this debate: digital is a great tool, which offers opportunities, but also presents risks. It is indeed our responsibility to fill the legal gaps: as a priority, of course, to better protect children who influence, thanks to this legal framework; but also to better empower parents, advertisers, platforms. I welcome the creation of this right of minors to digital oblivion, which was necessary and a real step forward. The Internet should not be an area of lawlessness, much less when it comes to the protection of children and their psychological development. This protection should be extended at European level, as is already planned for the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Defending the rights of our children, their development, their balance, is a priority for this majority, for the Government, but also, as we have seen in our debates, for all the deputies present on these benches. I therefore call on you, on behalf of the La République on the move, to vote unanimously in favour of this text, in order to preserve the privacy of our children, so that they can be built in complete serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u228	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u229	[["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm still a little disappointed. In the opposition, we are not often seized with a delusional enthusiasm; But there, the text proposed in committee had the merit of being effective, even if we, Members of the House of Commons, would have gone a little further. Let us say frankly, despite a little disappointment, a little ideological divergence, I will still vote in favour of this text. It will be a small "yes". I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk about this again, to show a little more audacity in the face of the European Union and the giant platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u230	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u231	As you know, MODEM is in favour of all measures to strengthen the protection and rights of children. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Without hesitation, my group will vote for this text, and I welcome the fine unanimity that has come from our benches this afternoon. Thank you for your work, Mr President-Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u232	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The IUD, Action and Independent Group welcomes this text, which aims to fill a legal gap and strengthen children's rights. We will therefore enthusiastically vote on this bill, which was necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u234	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u235	I was able earlier, Mr rapporteur, to confirm to you our agreement to this bill, which is very welcome. We all stressed the need to better frame these videos, which can do much more harm than could be believed at first glance, not only to children but also to their families. By taking these measures, we protect them, of course, but we also help parents who do not necessarily measure the damage that such videos can cause. In addition, this text will allow us to better combat their dissemination on platforms. I would also like to thank you for taking the time to explain the consequences of the legislation in European law. We understood them. We will vote on this bill. How could we not be in favour of measures that will improve children's rights? Finally, let us highlight the pleasure of discussing, from time to time, in a consensual climate of mutual listening. We reached an agreement this afternoon, but I believe that we could succeed more often. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and MODEM groups]] It happens that the "At the same time" takes on its full meaning. Today we are together and the Republican Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u236	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u237	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 69 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-12-O1140.u238	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the bill to freeze football matches on 5 May; Discussion of the proposal for a law to finance mobile telephone infrastructure; Discussion of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposed law on the guarantee fund for victims of terrorist acts; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the protection of heritage and the promotion of regional languages. The meeting is adjourned.
