ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u1	Mr. President received letters from Mr. Patrice Verchère, Member of Parliament for the eighth electoral district of the Rhône, and Mr. Christophe Bouillon, Member of Parliament for the fifth electoral district of Seine-Maritime, informing him that they were resigning their term of office as MP as of June 17, 2020. By communications of 16 June 2020, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Mr Patrice Verchère and Mr Christophe Bouillon were replaced until the renewal of the National Assembly, respectively by Mrs Nathalie Serre and by Mr Bastien Coriton, elected together with them for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u2	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law to ensure the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas France (No 967, 3071).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u3	The Secretary of State for Pensions and the Protection of the Health of Employees from the Covid -19 Epidemic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u4	"The impossible, we do not reach it, but it serves as a lantern. These words are not mine, but they are a little yours, Mr. Chairman Chassaigne. In February 2017, quoting René Char, you invited parliamentarians to pass your bill to raise agricultural retirement pensions. It was adopted unanimously. It was first because it is a question of social justice, because the level of agricultural pensions is not worthy of work, essential to our territory, provided by these actors; Secondly, because the production of farmers is essential to our food; Finally, because you defend this cause with the talent that each one of you in this assembly recognizes. Perhaps also, let us admit, because, in early 2017, we were at the end of the quinquennium. You then succeeded in that impossible you mentioned, despite the opposition of the government at the time. The agricultural pension system comes from a long and rich history. It illustrates the evolution of activities in our country and raises the question of our society's commitment to this universal profession. For more than 150 years, land workers have organized themselves in a collective framework to protect themselves from the risks specific to their activity. From the 1950s onwards, it was the Agricultural Social Mutuality which managed this social protection for farmers, farm workers and their families. But, very quickly, the agricultural system faced financial difficulties, too low pensions. Very quickly, this system of categorical distribution could not be balanced because the demography of the profession became too unfavourable. Between 1950 and 2015, the number of farmers was divided by four. There is now one contributor for more than two residents. The financial difficulties arising from this situation are easily understood. This bill speaks of our relationship to a profession that exists in the heart of each of us. Farmers are these women and men who rise every day to feed others and thus contribute to the collective effort and the management and preservation of our environment. Yet, are they just paid? Can they, through contributions or savings, secure a dignified retirement? We know that, too often, this is not the case. Our farmers do not ask for alms, but they have the right to the recognition of each and every one of us. Through the question of the agricultural pension system, it is the question of universality and solidarity. It's like a paradox. The agricultural pension scheme is, as I said, categoryl. But it cannot be financed solely by these contributions. This point system works thanks to national solidarity – because for those who might have doubted it a few months ago, both are compatible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u5	[[Smile]] Don't take advantage of it, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u6	I know the commitment of Members, on all these benches, to introduce more fairness into our pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u7	Especially on our benches!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u8	We had these cross-party debates during the consideration of the bill to establish a universal pension system, particularly for the most modest pensioners. I remember my discussions with Yves Daniel, Olivier Damaisin and all the Members, regardless of their political affiliation, concerned about the level of agricultural pensions of their fellow citizens that they meet every day in their territory. I would like to recall here that the text adopted by the National Assembly before the health crisis provided for these measures of social justice and that, together, we made a commitment to go further. That is why with the Prime Minister, I asked your colleagues Nicolas Turquois and Lionel Causse to make proposals on small pensions. It is by being faithful to this commitment to a fair, fair and supportive pension system that we are now considering this GDR bill. Article 1 deals with the revalorisation of agricultural pensions. This is the heart of this bill. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Members of the whole majority made amendments to the Committee on Social Affairs, which were motivated by a demand for social justice. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the majority gathered around Olivier Damaisin, Nicolas Turquois and Paul Christophe to serve this objective that we share. In order to ensure the legal soundness of the text, the Government will propose amendments respecting the measures adopted by the commission and which will be repeated: the guarantee of a total pension, equivalent to at least 85 per cent of the net agricultural SMIC for managers who have completed a full career; the inclusion of the beneficiary's pensions in an objective of equity; the application to future and current pensioners; implementation by 1 January 2022 at the latest. I know that some here would like this measure to apply even earlier. That's understandable. I would therefore like to point out that, if policy is not subject to administrative dictates, it is our duty not to betray the trust of the citizen. In 2014, it took 16 months to implement the 75% SMIC guarantee. Let us therefore be precise and rigorous in our commitments to the agricultural world. In 2022, 200,000 agricultural pensioners, in metropolitan France and the overseas territories, will benefit from an average monthly increase of 110 euros in their retirement pension. This bill is therefore a social step forward. Overseas is at the heart of Article 3. The Government is aware of the specific nature of economic activity in these territories, which is why we will propose an amendment to adapt the provisions of article 1 to take account of the specific quarries of ultramarine farmers. Its application will be more flexible in terms of the duration of membership, as foreseen in the original text of the bill, but also in terms of the duration of contributions, which will be a step forward. In this way, all ultramarine farm pensioners who have liquidated at full rate will benefit from the guarantee. Article 4 is in line with this logic of progress for pensioners in ultramarine territories. I will be all the more supportive of this because this measure applies in the context of social democracy. Finally, with regard to funding, I would like to remind parliamentarians here that the debates will take place within the framework of the budget laws and in the light of the work that your colleagues Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois will communicate to you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups. – Mr Jérôme Bony also applauds]] As you have understood, the Government is in favour of this amended bill. Mr.President Chassaigne, in 2017, you concluded by quoting René Char again, who said: "The unfulfilled is full of essentials. Let me go in your direction. This bill reminds us that so much remains to be done to provide all our fellow citizens with a fair, sustainable, fair and responsive pension system that reflects the reality of the world in which we live. Today, we have the opportunity to improve the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of French and French. I hope that our discussions will allow it in harmony and serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u9	Mr Andre Chassaigne, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u10	As you said, Secretary of State, on February 2, 2017, the National Assembly unanimously adopted this bill, tabled by Huguette Bello, Member of Parliament for La Réunion, the other members of the GDR Group and myself. National representation then carried with one voice the promise, long made to agricultural pensioners but never realized, of a decent retirement, as a recognition of the nation addressed to those who have dedicated their lives to nourishing the country and defending our rural territories. The hopes and expectations aroused by this bill followed disappointment, bitterness and impatience: the disappointment that the Government was opposed to the adoption of this bill in the Senate in 2018, under the pretext of a calendar incompatibility with the so-called "universal" pension reform; the bitterness of finding that this reform, finally discussed this winter, left aside the agricultural pensioners; Finally, impatience to see the 85% guarantee of SMIC applied without this measure being lost in the labyrinth of a parliamentary shuttle that nothing initially predicted as chaotic. So here we are, forty months later, while nothing has changed for farm pensioners, or so little. Forty months later, one in three agricultural pensioners still cannot claim a pension of more than €350 per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u11	Yes, it's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u12	Forty months later, agricultural workers in Réunion and Guadeloupe still do not have access to supplementary pension, fifty years after the generalisation of AGIRC-ARRCO, the General Association of Executive Retirement Institutions and the Association of Supplementary Pension Plans. Forty months later, a full-career farm manager still lives below the poverty line and cannot claim a pension higher than the ASPA, the solidarity allowance for the elderly. At the initiative of the Communist Members and the whole GDR Group, whom I thank, and in view of the social urgency faced by all agricultural pensioners, this bill is now on the agenda, now at second reading, as part of our annual parliamentary niche. As in 2017, I chose to involve all the parliamentary groups in my work as rapporteur, in an approach of openness and consultation. In this regard, I would like to thank all Members and parliamentary collaborators who have followed our hearings diligently and have shown a sincere interest in the content of the text. A big thank you also to our administrator Charles Mahy for his remarkable work and to Sonia Chane-Kune, a collaborator of Huguette Bello, who has invested a lot in this text. If the approach is the same, the context has changed substantially since 2017. In addition to the renewal of the Assembly, the crisis that we have just been going through sheds new light on this bill by reminding us of the daily and unremitting commitment of the workers of the earth. The past forty months have also allowed us to continue our research and to draw up an initial evaluation of certain schemes: I am thinking in particular of raising the threshold for succession recovery in the Overseas Territories, under the ASPA, adopted in 2017. Contrary to what has been put forward here or there, this measure has had no effect on the non-use of ASPA, which remains an inadequate tool and rejected by farm pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u14	The increase of the minimum pension guarantee to 85% of the SMIC, for agricultural workers, is on the contrary an appropriate measure, expected...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u15	Very expected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u16	... and even requested by professional organisations. It will increase the minimum pension from 905 euros today to 1026 euros tomorrow. But when will this tomorrow happen? By 2021, as I propose, or in 2022, as the majority proposed in committee? We will have the opportunity to come back to this during the debates. Of course, this measure is not an end in itself; It must lead us to increase the revalorisation of agricultural pensions, particularly for spouses and spouses of heads of farms, as well as for family workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, EDS and LR groups]] For too long, those who remain invisible for social security, all are still forgotten of our right. The combined application of Article 40 of the Constitution and the funnel rule at second reading prevented me from introducing such an extension by way of amendment. However, I would like us to make strong commitments to these farmers and farmers today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u20	Now we know, thanks to the indications provided by the Agricultural Social Mutuality, the cost of extending to these workers the minimum pension guarantee to 85% of the SMIC: perhaps we will come back to this during the debates. Mr Secretary of State, according to what timetable and how could spouses and co-workers, as well as family workers, benefit from a minimum pension guarantee? I come to a point in the debate which has fully mobilised us in committee, but we are not convinced, however: the unexpected introduction of a cap applicable to the minimum pension guarantee. Unexpected, and even disconcerting, initiative...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u21	It's Bercy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u22	[[Smile]] ... which leads me to quote Michel Audiard once again: "Not a mood movement! Not one anger, not even one word higher than the other! And then all of a sudden: crack, fake note, fly in milk! » I would point out that this mechanism was not discussed at any time during the hearings that we conducted, both that of the National Association of Agricultural Retirees of France – ANRAF – which prompts us to pass this bill, and that of the organisations representing the agricultural world and the MSA. Had it been, we could have assessed its impact. I would also point out that no figures have been put forward in committee by the authors of the amendment to create it. However, we found that its application would have the effect of reducing the number of beneficiaries of the minimum pension guarantee from 290000 to 196000. In addition to the technical, very real obstacles that will be discussed again today, we must return to a question of principle: yes or no, ladies and gentlemen, do we wish that any farmer who fulfils the conditions of insurance period will benefit from the guarantee of a minimum agricultural pension of 85% of the SMIC, whatever the other activities he has carried out elsewhere?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u24	Our only compass must be social progress. To hear the members of the majority say in committee that 100,000 beneficiaries should be excluded from the minimum pension guarantee in the name of social justice can only leave me, not dubitative, but pantois! The adverse consequences of the capping have so far prevented its adoption, in the framework of the Touraine law of 2014 as in that of the text defended by our colleague Germinal Peiro at the end of the previous legislature. Even the bill establishing a universal pension system that you have defended, Secretary of State, does not provide for this craving. Adopting it is tantamount to excluding more than one in three retirees from the minimum pension guarantee of 85% of the SMIC, and ending its universality, even though it is open to all heads of operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u26	The sub-amendments tabled in Rule 1 on Amendment No. 17 of the Government will, if adopted, make it possible to correct the wording of the committee on this point. Apart from this delicate issue, I am pleased to see that the provisions of the bill bring us together. The increased access of ultramarine farmers to minimum retirement, and the possibility for the State to take over in the event of social partners' shortcomings in order to extend the AGIRC-ARRCO to ultramarine agricultural workers, are real advances, which give concrete expression to the continued commitment of our colleague Huguette Bello in this fight. On the eve of our debates, I call for our collective responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to provide agricultural pensioners with an answer that is certainly insufficient, but concrete and tangible. This responsibility, if it crosses humanism, brings us back not to René Char – my communist colleagues will again blame me for my taste for quotations, which, it seems, is an old game! – but to the fulgurances of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, who tells so well his journey in the Transsiberian in Terre des hommes: "To be a man is precisely to be responsible. It is to know shame in the face of misery that did not seem to be dependent on oneself. It is to be proud of a victory that the comrades have won. It is to feel, by laying its stone, that one contributes to building the world. » [[Applause on all benches]] This stone, I propose that we lay it together this morning in order to continue the foundation of a dignified retreat for farmers and women farmers, to whom our nation owes so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u27	In the general debate, Mr Sébastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u28	[[Smile]] Here I am under pressure, I rise to the gallery following our group president: if I say nonsense, I risk a lot, and we know how much he has invested in this important subject. I was not yet a Member of Parliament when the National Assembly unanimously adopted, on February 2, 2017, the bill to raise agricultural retirement pensions. However, I remember proudly welcoming this commitment, which, in the same spirit, supported one of the main principles of our pension system: ensuring a decent standard of living for everyone once retired. Later, when the text was examined in the Senate, history stuttered, in the circumstances we know. I shall dwell on it all the less because the quiet tenacity of our colleague, President André Chassaigne, whom I greet fraternally, offers us a new opportunity to carry out this indispensable revalorisation, thanks to a simple procedure. Indeed, the draft law is entirely in line with the solidarity scheme guaranteeing a minimum pension of 75% of the SMIC, adopted in 2002 and implemented 15 years later. Whether they are beneficiaries or award criteria, the award parameters are identical. The only change is to increase the minimum guarantee from 75% to 85% of the net SMIC, i.e. – and this is not a straw – an increase in the minimum pension level paid to farm managers from €905 to €1025 per month. Such revalorisation has become essential because, while there are small pensions in other economic sectors, the agricultural old-age insurance scheme offers the lowest pensions. The causes of this are widely identified, first and foremost the low incomes of farmers. There is no justification for an operating manager, after a full career, to have a pension below the poverty line and the ASPA. By updating the map of the strategic sectors and essential trades, the crisis that we are going through provides, if necessary, an additional argument in favour of an immediate revalorisation of agricultural pensions, and makes its need even more obvious. It is therefore up to us, after three years of waiting, to give life to it. Indeed, contrary to what I have heard here and there, the wrong pension reform, now abandoned – and of which it is not conceivable, for us, to come back to discussion by any method whatsoever – did not provide for any provision for farmers already retired. Its Article 41 applied only to persons who will claim their pension rights after the entry into force of this bad reform – which has become obsolete, is said to be a reminder. The bill before us is therefore neither a piece of evidence nor a prologue. Its review is not redundant with any other legislative agenda. This text, which the Government and the majority have so far refused to give a concrete translation, will put an end to an injustice that has lasted too long. At a time when the agricultural and peasant world is experiencing an existential crisis, to which the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all – EGALIM – has not provided any meaningful response,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u30	... at a time when farmers are wondering about the credit to be given to the words of the President of the Republic regarding the return to a form of food sovereignty and support for the first of the ropes of farmers, this bill is a sign of recognition of the nation; It gives real recognition to the agricultural world, where we work at a rate of 70 hours a week to feed France. In the land of Bray, in the land of Caux, in my house in Normandy, believe me, we know what that means! This bill can be the cornerstone of another agricultural policy, really recognizing the working value of the peasant. The revalorisation of pensions for agricultural pensioners is all the more necessary since alternative solutions are very rare. For some time, the path of recourse to ASPA was finally abandoned. In addition to its highly dissuasive psychological aspect, in a work environment where work is of paramount importance, it has faced the major obstacle of succession recovery. The first evaluations, André Chassaigne mentioned earlier, carried out overseas since 2017, so after the raising of the threshold of recovery on succession from 39000 to 100000 euros, demonstrated, at least in part, the limits of the device. Indeed, the excellent report tells us that this increase did not have the desired positive effect on the use of ASPA. While the number of overseas beneficiaries has increased since 2018, this is mainly the result of successive increases in the ceiling of this allowance. This fact reinforces the section of the text devoted to the overseas countries and territories. On this subject, I am happy to be the spokesperson for our colleague Huguette Bello – this excellent speech was written by his collaborator – whose investment on this point is constant and old. With a pension of less than 400 euros on average, the ultramarine operators, of which it must be said that they are not affiliated with the MSA, live in a very precarious situation. In Réunion, where half of the 30,000 ultramarine agricultural pensioners live, it is not uncommon for the monthly pension not to exceed 100 euros. The reasons for this are well documented; They include the late introduction – in 1964 – of the basic pension scheme, the calculation of supplementary pension contributions on the basis not of income but of small areas, and the non-compensation of the full exemption from contributions. Also worth mentioning is the virtual impossibility for retired agricultural self-employed overseas workers – planters, according to local terminology – to meet the two conditions eligible for the minimum pension guarantee of 75% of the SMIC. Few of them can justify a full career, even as they begin to work very early, and a minimum of 17.5 years at the head of a farm. Article 3 is therefore intended to remove the second condition. Failing this, the revalorisation of pensions from 75% to 85% of the SMIC, applicable in law, will remain virtual in fact. We will have this important debate when we consider Article 3. This removal measure takes account of the small insurance periods for overseas operators. It will be a real step forward, especially since it has long been expected. In addition, an amendment by the Government provides for the consolidation and deepening of the Convention, to which we are sensitive. Facilitating the access of younger people to agricultural land also requires the provision of pensions to enable them to live decently without having to continue working. In La Réunion, 4000 hectares could be released for the benefit of 200 young people. In Martinique, where the decline in agricultural areas has reached worrying proportions, access to land for younger people is also often a challenge. The overseas part of the draft law also addresses an unknown reality: more than half a century after the generalisation of the complements, agricultural workers in Guadeloupe and Réunion are still not covered by such a scheme. Article 4 of the text reaffirms the role of the social partners and provides for State intervention to put an end to this exception from another time. As in 2002, for the adoption of the law on the creation of a compulsory supplementary pension scheme for agricultural non-employees, known as the Peiro Act; As in 2017, for the adoption of this bill at first reading by the National Assembly, it was unanimously that the Social Affairs Committee adopted last week the text that comes back to us at second reading. However, we must take the time to examine the new parameter that the Government wishes to introduce, as it limits the scope of the guarantee of a minimum pension, which is much expected. Defended by the majority, the capping measure applicable to the total pension received risks excluding 100,000 people from the benefit of the scheme, i.e. one third of the potential beneficiaries – André Chassaigne has demonstrated this brilliantly. For us, this is obviously not acceptable, because it leads to a further reduction in the proportion of former agricultural non-employees who benefit from a compulsory supplementary supplementary pension supplement, known as the RCO. In addition to the technical difficulties which will delay the revalorisation of agricultural pensions by another year, the capping turns its back on the principle of the universality of pensions based on the logic of national solidarity, a principle which has constantly characterized agricultural pension schemes. By introducing a distinction between monopensioners and polypensioners, the capping conflicts with the minimum guarantee logic. As we need to strengthen food security, it is vital to respond quickly to the social emergencies in the agricultural world by voting for the retired farm managers. It goes without saying that this new stage calls for others, especially in favour of collaborating spouses, usually women, or family workers, because, far from reflecting their role on farms, pensions paid to women are still among the weakest in our pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u31	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u32	I'm finishing, Madam President. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on several benches of the FI, SOC and EDS groups]] It will be up to us, I said, to continue to act. Together and solemnly, let us make a commitment to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u33	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u34	The vote on this bill aimed at ensuring the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas allows us to collectively congratulate ourselves on a real social advance for all French farmers. This text highlights the real difficulties currently facing the agricultural pension scheme in serving a correct minimum pension level for agricultural pensioners in metropolitan France and overseas. The subject has been known for many years, Germinal Peiro and Yves Daniel had already addressed it and, for three years, with André Chassaigne, whom I sincerely want to thank, we have worked closely with all the agricultural organizations and unions – I am thinking in particular of the ANRAF, which has been fighting for twenty-five years – to finally achieve this much-awaited progress. The La République en marche group is well aware of the difficulties dealt with in the text. Constantly listening to the agricultural world, he showed this during the discussion on the establishment of the universal system by proposing, in particular, to integrate agricultural pensioners into a more protective system. It has also shown this by defending the EGALIM law, which has enabled measures to be taken in favour of fairer remuneration for farmers. Anticipating the universal pension system, this bill aims to raise pensions for the lowest pensions in the non-farmer's scheme to 85% of the net agricultural SMIC, and to improve the situation of women farmers in the overseas countries and territories. Just think that agricultural non-employees receive an average pension of 730 euros for a full career, compared to an average of 1547 euros for all pensioners. There are also large differences between farm pensions themselves: they average 855 euros per month for farm managers but 597 euros for spouses and employees, most of whom are women, a difference of 30%. The provisions we are going to vote on will allow for a mechanical increase in reversion pensions, which will not prevent us from settling the problem of this inequality in the future. Worse still, in overseas countries, the average pension for a direct pensioner amounts to 293 euros for a man and 255 euros for a woman. All these amounts are well below the solidarity allowance for the elderly, but also at the poverty line. Many of us have been engaged in this fight and I am pleased that we can make progress on this issue, but you will agree that a mechanism that merely reproduces the current regime without correcting its inequalities would be insufficient. We therefore propose that this should be rectified. While confirming the principle of a guarantee increased to 85% of the SMIC, we wanted, in committee, to achieve social justice and to ensure equity between single-pension and multi-pension insured persons,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u35	Only with pensioners in agriculture do you make this difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u36	... make the benefit of the agricultural pension supplement subject to the liquidation of all entitlements, subject to a reduction proportional to the total amount of pensions, all schemes combined. We believe that the system, as amended, will be fairer for our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] On behalf of the whole of the Republic on the move, and of all the colleagues with whom I have worked in the agricultural retirement group, I am pleased that we can finally, during this parliamentary term, achieve the ambition that many have wished to achieve in previous legislatures without ever achieving it. I would also like to point out that these measures are only a step which should enable all workers to obtain the same rights and guarantees. I salute my colleagues Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois to whom the Government has entrusted a mission on small pensions. They will be able to inform us on how to continue this reflection for the agricultural world and for other professions – we need to look in particular at family caregivers and spouses, who are, as I said, mainly women. [[New applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Paul Christophe also applauds]] For all these reasons, the La République group is in the process of voting for the bill. As part of the Government's mission on ill-being and suicide in the agricultural world, I see every day the human damage caused by the so-called "gribashing". I hope that we will all now speak with one voice and that we will devote ourselves to "griloving".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u37	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u38	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u39	Mr President Chassaigne, I thank you once again for allowing this House to deal with the so important issue of the pension level of farmers now retired. Thank you for your perseverance! Mr Secretary of State, this morning I am saddened by the fact that I find myself for the umpteenth time among the personalities of this assembly, all very attached to rural areas, to deal with a subject that we cannot achieve. Our rapporteur, President Chassaigne, referred to the forty months that have passed since the first discussion of the bill in our Assembly, but without referring to the twenty-five years of struggle that Mr Damaisin was talking about a moment ago, one can mention the promise of the candidate Hollande, who, in the 2012 presidential election, was to guarantee a minimum agricultural pension equivalent to 75% of the SMIC. This promise was difficult to keep during the previous quinquennium: it became a reality only in 2016. However, in 2018, when we discussed the subject again, we found that the number of small retirees whose pensions had been upgraded to this level remained very low because the pace of upgrading was too slow. In 2017, at the end of the quinquennium, the bill to raise the pension level to 85% of the SMIC was placed on the agenda of our assembly. On the part of the Republican Group, we have been many in support of it without hesitation, without ambiguity and without any political calculation, as we will still do today. At the time, however, given the legislative timetable, it was clear that the text could not be completed until the end of the quinquennium – and that was unfortunately what happened. In 2018, at first reading in the Senate, your majority made the choice of "gunning" the text, pass the phrase, using the blocked vote, on the grounds that the broader pension reform – for which you have the responsibility, Secretary of State – was going to embrace the issue. That was not the case, because your reform did not concern those who were already retired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u40	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u41	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u42	Also in 2018, during the discussions on the future EGALIM law, we discussed the re-evaluation of agricultural incomes – the issue of income is the one that needs to be asked if we want to improve the daily lives of our farmers. However, it is now clear that there are still holes in the snowshoe and that improvements will have to be made to this law if it is to achieve its objectives. [["Yes! » on some benches of the LR group]] We are therefore going back to the bill we examined in 2017. I entrusted my sentence to you a moment ago: it is all the greater as I see that you have, in a way, emptied the text of its substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u44	On the one hand, you have planned to postpone further the date of implementation of this reform, and on the other hand, you have introduced an incomprehensible capping scheme explaining that social justice consists in not valuing the work of those who have devoted years of hard work to making their farm live. We cannot hear that. The other reason for my sentence is the absence of the Minister of Agriculture next to you this morning. I think he should have been on the bench of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u46	The subject we are dealing with is not only technical or arithmetic: it concerns the reality of the experience of hundreds of thousands of retired farmers, who have never been in 35 hours and who have never lived in luxury. They survived because they owned their house, often the farm house passed down from generation to generation, and their vegetable garden. They now live modestly, and more than modestly: with incomes below the social minimums.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u48	How can we tolerate today that the French Parliament is unable to agree on a proposal that aims to increase the pensions of people who live on EUR 500 or 600 for farm managers who are most often men, and much less for women, up to 85% of the SMIC? Let us not even talk about the situation of spouses who did not have social security and who, for some of them, still do not have one! [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups. – Mr Yannick Favennec Becot also applauds]] Parliament would honour itself to react positively and quickly. I do not believe that we can continue to have fun in the gallery for a long time as we are about to do. Finally, President Chassaigne, this reform has not been dragging on for forty months; She's been dragging for two quinquennats from 2012 to 2022! During this period, nothing will have changed in the daily lives of retired farmers. I do not want to argue on this subject that touches me closely; I am simply saying that we must act on responsibility this morning and adopt not the version of the bill adopted by the committee, but that presented by the GDR Group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u50	...because she's the only one who can change things. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Frédérique Tuffnell also applauds]] This version will allow us to analyse calmly and finely how to continue to increase these pensions and how to finance them, since farmers cannot take on such changes from their contributions alone. On this subject, discussions were open with the profession in the context of pension reform. We must continue to do so, but before that, we must do an act of social justice towards those who have made agriculture work and who, in the current crisis, have shown that it is indispensable to our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u51	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u52	It is an opportunity for me to speak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement on the proposal for a law by our colleague André Chassaigne. I am speaking of luck because I am sure that we will adopt a good text, both in substance and in form, which will improve the financial situation of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. In terms of substance, raising the minimum pension for both future and present agricultural pensions from 75% to 85% of SMIC is an undeniable social advance. A life of labor, often poorly paid, to feed our country but also to maintain our landscapes and to make our villages live, deserves greater attention from the nation. It will be done. Imposing additional coverage on agricultural workers in Guadeloupe and Réunion is also a welcome step forward. When the social partners fail to shoulder their responsibilities, the State must take its own to protect the most modest. Nevertheless, it is on the form that I want to express myself more, in the first place to thank André Chassaigne for his pugnacity. Despite technical complexities, major changes and budgetary constraints, it has persevered and will succeed. This result is not the result of chance, but of a conviction deeply pinned to the body. Thank you very much, Congressman. This bill must also ask all of us about how we work, and especially how we do politics. I am sure we will support this text massively, regardless of our political families, because it seems fair to us. For once, and this is rare enough to be stressed, we will not vote for or against a text by looking from which side it comes; We will vote by looking at whom he addresses, to whom he is useful. This should always be our course of action, but, unfortunately, this is almost never the case. Many of us have committed ourselves with the conviction that it is possible to do politics differently, by dialogue, by bringing each other's positions closer together, by sharing efforts. However, the reality is quite different: some people think that they are enhanced by the overbidding, populism or denigration of the other. As a result, we divert and disgust many of our fellow citizens from the politics and challenges facing our country. Yet, this bill is indicative of all that would logically have to be done on pensions and that we have tried to do with the bill introduced earlier this year,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u53	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u54	... maybe clumsy sometimes, but certainly with the conviction that the current system was profoundly complex, unfair and unfair. I'll give you three illustrations. First, Mr. Chassaigne's proposal will allow retired farm managers to reach 85% of the SMIC, but, contrary to what you said, Mr. Jumel, it is anything but simple. This will be possible because in 2014, Ms Touraine had put in place the necessary legal and IT tools to develop a complex point allocation system under the BCR, the mandatory supplementary pension scheme for farmers, in order to enable them to reach 75% of the SMIC. Implementation had taken almost 18 months, as all career development had to be recalculated and all pensions recalculated, including for retired persons for more than 25 years. This titanic work, the MSA will have to do it again in part. How can we have such a complex system in 2020 that it requires 18 months of calculation? The second illustration is that we do not deal with artisans and traders whose pension amounts are often the same as those of farmers. This would not be possible, moreover, because they have less often completed a full career and the way in which their pensions are calculated is notoriously different. Once again, it would be necessary to devise a specific and complex mechanism to achieve the same objectives. It's nonsense! Last illustration: the spouses-collaborators, who are the great forgotten ones. How can we deal frontally, objectively and, let us say clearly, budgetaryly with the situation of millions of people who have little or no contribution? With our bill, we wanted to advance this important topic, at least for future retirees, by reflecting on the status of the spouse, by better valuing career breaks related to maternity, and by securing the rules of reversion. It must be noted that at this time, nothing has changed. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Paul Christophe and Mrs Christine Pires Beaune also applaud]] If the subject of agricultural pensions and our colleague Chassaigne's proposal allow us today to do otherwise, to cross our partisan borders, then it will be a beautiful day. But on pensions as on many other subjects, let us not stop at this day alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u55	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u56	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Concord, Secretary of State, does not oblige us to forget, quite the contrary. That is why I would like here to remember the struggles of the left and the peasant world. It was under Lionel Jospin that, for the first time, a five-year plan to upgrade agricultural pensions was launched. He was prosecuted under François Hollande. During the recent period, these are the two historical sequences during which retreats were not a subject of propaganda, of beatings, but were the subject of concrete procedures leading to reclamations. Under Lionel Jospin, the 50 % base of the SMIC was acquired, and the 2002 law on the creation of a compulsory supplementary pension scheme for agricultural non-employees was adopted. On this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to one of my predecessors, the Socialist MEP Germinal Peiro, who, from this adoption, laid down the principle of an increase in agricultural pensions aimed at reaching the threshold of 75% of the SMIC. A decade later, no indexation had been made and the trajectory had not been achieved: by the end of 2012, the rate was 70.34% of the SMIC, far from 75%. The corrections were made under François Hollande's mandate. In 2014, at the instigation of Germinal Peiro, the Touraine Act introduced the free catch-up of rights, especially for spouses and family workers, and set out this path leading to the end of 2017. Nevertheless, we are still far from the account since the retirement of farmers is currently less than 900 euros monthly and that of spouses and spouses is less than 600 euros. The situation of family workers is no brighter. In 2017, on the proposal of André Chassaigne, we adopted this path to reach the 85% SMIC rate. I'm not going to go back to the peripesties, or rather to the slurry in a swamp that caused us to lose three years. Today, we're on the rendezvous. Nor will I dwell on the stumbling blocks of history, nor on the amendments relating to the dates or the measures of slashing, which we shall soon be discussing. First of all, I wanted to recall the recent history of the struggle led by the Socialists on two occasions, during two terms. With their communist allies and all the men of progress in this assembly, they have moved forward the issue of retreats, not in words or speeches but in reality. Since it is June 18, I would also like to remember the older and more historic left-wing fighting. In the 1950s, it was Tanguy-Prigent, socialist minister, Breton, of Charles de Gaulle, who introduced the laws of rent. Less than a decade later, together with Edgard Pisani, was built the whole base of regulations, the cooperative movement, joint farming groups – GAEC –, cooperative farm equipment use – CUMA. Agriculture is not all about scientific and technological progress, genetics, machinism and magic solutions. It is made up of the solidarity of the peasant world that organizes itself to produce, commercialize, help each other, reach out and ensure that everyone succeeds. This social progress has a history, that of the left and the peasant world. In this story, there are sometimes "I love you, neither I" and many cultural misunderstandings, but there is fidelity to the fights. To our Communist comrades and colleagues, I would like to say that we have always been united in these struggles for the peasant world, in order to choose cooperation, regulation and organisation of markets, equality, reforms of the common agricultural policy – CAP. On these issues, we have always been in convergence. [[Applause on SOC, GDR, EDS and LT benches as well as on some LR benches]] I look forward to being with you again for this stage. I say it because there are bad winds in history. At this very moment, there is a movement of grabbing of the mortiferous lands for the renewal of the generations of peasants. [[Exclaims on LT banks]] At this very moment, a milk multinational – which has been enriched with the overall economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, says CETA, and which distributes double-digit dividends – announces a drop in the price of milk paid to producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u57	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u58	Some international agreements, concluded in the middle of the period of covid -19, ruin efforts in favour of internal regulation which makes it possible to pay a worthy price to the producers and to have a good distribution of the premiums. The fight is never over. The left rejoices when it can convince and train, but it will never resign from the fight for freedom and justice, in the name of the peasant world and the gratitude due to our elders. Threats are important,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u59	MERCOSUR is also a threat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u60	... but I will say it by repeating the Gaully tones of the 18 June call: the last word has not been said, hope is not vain. The fight for the justice, regulation and dignity of the peasants is a fight for the salvation and peace of the world, for quality food for all, for the fight against famines that resurface on the planet. It presupposes an organization and a mutualization of humanistic values that do not pay for words. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mr. Jean-Baptiste Moreau also applauds]] Today we are taking a step in this fight for all the Jacquou the Earth's Crocker who live in our territories. We talked about Jean Valjean. I am glad that in the first part of this communist niche, we pay tribute to all the Jacquou the Croquant of our territories and the land.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u61	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u62	Dear André Chassaigne, I would like to address you, as well as the colleagues who have approached this Parliament, by claiming a presidential draft containing a limitation on the number of mandates for parliamentarians. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LT, SOC, GDR and LR groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] By consulting André Chassaigne's biography this morning, I discovered that he has been a Member of Parliament since 2002. It is thanks to his experience, perseverance and tenacity that this bill comes to fruition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u64	If I take the time to say it, it's because we're being listened to. Our country is well organized. In our beautiful democracy, there are civil servants – experienced, brilliant and learned people who last in time – and, next to them, there must be elected officials, some of whom – I am a part of them – who, in the course of their mandates, gain valuable experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u66	By listening to André Chassaigne, Marc Le Fur or you, Madam President, who have been here for a number of years, we can see that over time Members have acquired valuable skills and experience in the public debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u68	Dear André, you finally offer us an ecumenical moment on June 18, 2020, the anniversary of the call of General de Gaulle. Eighty years ago, the moment was ecumenical because French people mobilized to resist. Today, I think it will also be when we pass this bill. We are talking about farmers who receive small retirement pensions, and we are with them in our ridings. Despite our good exchanges in committee, a few points remain in debate. As regards the date of application of the text, the UDI-I Group has tabled a new amendment so that it will enter into force immediately, i.e. in 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC, GDR and LR groups]] On the question of capping, I will address the chairman of the majority group. In our ridings, Mr. President, we are a number of women and men who receive very small retirement pensions. I am a little surprised to see that, when we talk about pensions of 1000 euros, you immediately have the question of capping, for reasons of lack of resources. On the other hand, it is not considered when it comes to appointing personalities – senior officials or former elected officials who have had a good career – to administrative authorities, independent public authorities or the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u69	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u70	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u71	[[Same movements]] A first President of the Court of Auditors has been appointed very recently, a former European Commissioner who has made a good journey as elected and as a senior official. He wonders, he doesn't know if he's going to cumulate his salary and retirement pension. Well, I'm telling him to ask about the opportunity to give an answer as soon as possible and, above all, not to combine his pension and his remuneration. In our territories, we spend the day with women and men who receive small pensions. We are marked by these anomalies that we can no longer accept. In 2020, when we have had crises of all kinds, including a health crisis, we can no longer bear these wages and above all these excessive accumulations of remuneration and retirement pensions. Olivier Damaisin, Member of the Group of the Republic on the move, said very well during the work of the Committee on Social Affairs: it is a first brick, a first step. You will agree, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a convergence between the pension reform bill intended by the President of the Republic and the Government and André Chassaigne's bill:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u72	Oh, no, the two texts have nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u73	... you all agree that agricultural pensions are abnormally low, even if the Government intends to act from 2022, for future pensioners, while André Chassaigne proposes to do so today, for current pensioners. All this goes in the right direction: the UDI-I Group will therefore support the bill and will remain attentive – like you, Mr Damaisin! – to the question of co-workers and family workers. We also need, and now, to broaden the debate on small pensions to include traders, artisans and independent professions that will still receive very small pensions in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u74	Yes, it's called point reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, GDR, SOC and LR groups. – Mr Bruno Millienne also applauds]] Thank you, Mr. Chassaigne, for your bill. All my compliments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u76	The beginning was good; the middle and the end, less!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u77	Don't you care about artisans and merchants?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u78	Please, Mr. Balanant. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u79	It is not uncommon for agricultural pensions to be at the heart of our debates, as the situation of farmers challenges us. On several occasions, we have legislated on this issue without, however, reaching a lasting solution to ensure a decent retirement pension for farmers. The Act of 4 March 2002 established a supplementary pension scheme with the objective of guaranteeing a pension level equal to 75% of the SMIC for a full pension. In 2014, the objective of raising pensions resulted in the extension of the BCR to spouses and family workers for periods of activity prior to their compulsory membership in 2011. As we know, this objective has not been achieved. As a reminder, agricultural pensioners are among the French pensioners who receive the lowest pensions. According to the Agricultural Social Mutuality, men receive an average of €953 and women €852, which is less than the poverty line, which is just over €1000. We can no longer accept the difficult living conditions faced by too many farmers and farm workers, isolated men and women, who are often indebted, who do not count their hours and fail to live from their work. For this reason, the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the GDR Group's initiative to include André Chassaigne's bill on the agenda of its parliamentary niche, whose objective is welcomed on all benches: to upgrade farmers' retirement pensions and to take into account the special situation of ultramarine operators. Consideration of the bill seems all the more urgent to us because the argument of the Government and the majority, which led to the rejection of the bill in the Senate, is no longer valid: the reform of a universal pension system is now suspended, probably even abandoned – in any case, I wish – because of the epidemic of covid-19, and with it the promise to raise the minimum pension to 85% of the SMIC. This may be better because the reform of pensions, which, according to the Government, had to guarantee more social justice, had, in reality, a number of dead angles, on which we unfortunately failed to convince the majority to return. During its consideration of this text, our group has repeatedly recalled that the adjustment of the minimum pension provided by the Government concerned only future pensioners. Farmers who have already retired would therefore not have benefited from the reform, whereas they have legitimately for years been asking for their pension to be raised to 85% of the SMIC. That is why our group has tabled an amendment – like many colleagues here – that incorporates the bill that we are considering today at second reading. We cannot postpone this issue any longer. We are a few to have supported the bill, adopted unanimously at first reading in the previous Parliament; I hope we will be many to support it again, but to support it in its original version, without the capping mechanism added by the majority in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u80	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u81	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u82	André Chassaigne clearly demonstrated the negative impact of this scheme with regard to the initial ambition and scope of the bill: not only would the number of beneficiaries of the revalorisation of retirement pensions be drastically reduced, but the spirit of the text itself would be deeply affected. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] André Chassaigne's bill sets a guaranteed minimum pension at 85% of the SMIC in return for farmers' professional contributions, that is, their contributions. It therefore provides for a replacement income when they reach retirement age, after years of hard work. By introducing the capping scheme, you are profoundly changing the meaning of the text by transforming a decent replacement income by a social assistance scheme that will be allocated in a differential way depending on the amount of all pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u83	That's right, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u84	In fact, you create an ASPA bis, without recourse to the estate, and a slightly higher amount. Farmers do not ask for alms, but just a decent pension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u85	Dignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u86	We will also support the text because we approve of its overseas aspect. It is important to send a strong signal to these too often neglected territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, GDR and FI groups. – Christine Pires Beaune and Jean-Yves Bony also applaud]] Finally, we will defend amendments with the aim of re-establishing the bill in its original version and making it effective from 2021, not 2022. Other issues will have to be resolved in order to ensure a dignified retirement for all farmers, particularly the working spouses, but this text is an essential first step that we can no longer postpone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u87	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u88	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u89	There are times that reveal the importance of some unrecognized and too often denigrated trades. The health crisis we are experiencing reminds us of the major role played by certain professions, including those in the agricultural sector. The farmers have been hit hard by the health crisis, but they have been able to adapt and, in some sectors, organize themselves to meet the basic needs of the population, in particular through direct sales and the maintenance of markets. The proposal for a law of the Democratic and Republican Left presented by André Chassaigne gives us once again the opportunity to allow all pensioners in the agricultural system to receive a minimum pension worth 85 % of the SMIC. "Once again" because, it was recalled, the bill had been passed at first reading in 2017. Today, in our country, too many women and men still work in unworthy conditions and receive pensions of an unacceptable level. We must put an end to this situation. On average, a farmer receives 855 euros in retirement. As my comrade Jean-Hugues Ratenon often points out, the situation is even worse in the overseas territories, where the average pension for a farmer is 330 euros. How did we get there? Among the various testimonies that I was able to read, the one that asked me the most was that of Mr François Legentilhomme, former president of the Agricultural Social Mutuality of Loire-Atlantique. In 2016, he explained the drop out of the agricultural system compared to other social protection systems by the reflex of some farmers and trade unions to "don't want to contribute". Supplementary pensions have been compulsory for farmers since 2002, i.e. 30 years after compulsory retirement for employees, including those in the agricultural sector. The same applies to retirement, since François Legentilhomme states: "We volunteered in 1947 to receive family benefits, including for MSA nationals. On the other hand, we refused to contribute for retirement until 1952. » Farmers cannot continue to suffer from these historic positions. Regrettably, the majority tends to obstruct any dynamic that favours greater social justice. We have seen this on a number of occasions, particularly in the examination of the texts we have proposed in our parliamentary niches. Even today, the GDR Group's original bill is amended by an amendment introducing a capping mechanism. Why should we now have a special scheme for farmers when the pension reform bill, which is now out of date, did not provide for it for other professions? The same applies to the 85% guarantee of the SMIC, which was scheduled to enter into force as early as 2018, but an amendment adopted in committee moves from 1 January 2022. We ask that the date chosen be, at a minimum, 1 January 2021. However, we welcome the fact that the committee unanimously adopted the text, especially since on 22 February 2020, at the opening of the Agriculture Fair, Emmanuel Macron stated that it was impossible to raise farmers' current pensions to 85% of the SMIC, stressing that such a measure would cost around EUR 1 billion. We regret, however, that the original text of the GDR Group was not adopted. The findings are clear: currently, more than 20% of French farmers live below the poverty line; one third of French farmers are over 55 years of age; half of the farmers will retire within six years. We must change our model and regain our agricultural sovereignty and food independence. To enable the entire profession to live decently, to renew itself and to overcome future crises, we must relocate production, set up short circuits and floor prices, but also, among other things, plan for a planned exit of pesticides. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Indeed, we must do exactly the opposite of the Government, which signs free trade agreements and relies on market mechanisms. Coronavirus acted as a revelation of the faults of the globalized capitalist system. You have to be aware of this and change course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u90	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u91	[[Smile]] Happy birthday, Benedict! Being born on June 18th is a sign of a national destiny!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u92	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u93	I want to talk to you about dignity, national dignity. The use of strong words is still an issue, but I think they are in this case quite appropriate. For if there is a profession whose members would deserve to sink happy days after retirement, it is indeed that of a farmer: the vast majority of them work twice the legal time, 365 days a year, therefore without holidays, and even for non-employees without consideration for penitibility; Our farmers feed us, 100% of the French eat thanks to them. The nation should be grateful to them and offer them a decent end of life. The latter, however, remains inaccessible to many of them. That is why I personally and on behalf of our whole Group on Ecology democracy solidarity would like to thank you, Mr Chassaigne, for the tenacity you have shown with heart in correcting this injustice which has no place in our time or in our country. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] Indignant at the low level of agricultural retirement pensions, I have often been and will be for a long time. This tiredness of the body, these dreadful days in which one struggles to find a place for personal and family life... Should we recall the pain of many farmers not being able to start a family because of the difficulty of their work? And then there are gender inequalities because the collaborating spouses, for most women, are even more affected and really have poverty pensions. The main thrust of the bill to establish a universal pension scheme was to guarantee income for all agricultural pensioners at least 1000 euros, but it left the current pensioners aside. The original version of this bill made it possible to partially compensate for this gap by including – and I thank Mr Chassaigne once again – the ultramarines, all too often forgotten. We regret, of course, that the version adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs has considerably weakened the whole of the scheme since the benefit of the supplementary pension will be conditional on having applied for all of its pension rights, which is to recognise not actual work but only the fact of having contributed. If people work without contributing, others contribute without working: which are the most beneficial to the economy? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that if many farmers have given up their contributions, it is because their incomes do not allow them to contribute. Should their sentence be endless? Can't we set up a minimum and decent pension? Our group also regrets that the committee has provided for a ceiling proportional to the amount of pensions, all schemes combined, because, on the grounds of aiming for equity between single- and multi-pensioned insured persons, it is thus chosen to consider agricultural work not as a real professional route but almost as a hobby... If farmers often have another activity, it is only because they cannot live from the only fruit of their only work on the land! The bill still remains a step forward for some of the farm pensioners. Even if it is insufficient, it has the merit of being there and we will of course vote on it with both hands. But less than 200,000 farm pensioners will be able to benefit from the new scheme, while, let us recall, they have a total of 3.8 million and their average pension is 740 euros, with large disparities between overseas and metropolitan France, 1.3 million being self-employed, including former farm managers. The initial drafting concerned and improved the retirements of 300,000 people: we lose 100,000 with the cut of the commission! I would also point out that one in three farmers has a pension of less than 350 euros per month, the average being 480 euros in metropolitan France and much less overseas – 320 euros on the island of La Réunion, for example. These frightening figures are those of today. And this text will unfortunately have little effect on them because many farmers will not meet the eligibility criteria for the 85% SMIC guarantee scheme,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u95	... as they have already been excluded from the 75 % guarantee scheme of the SMIC whereas they are the ones who receive the lowest pensions and are thus the most penalized. It is in the autumn, when the next Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – is being examined, that we may be able to act for them by looking at the functioning of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, the ASPA, and the inheritance recovery scheme, because if so many retired farmers live below the poverty line, it is in large part because they do not demand this allowance in order to avoid leaving even more debts to their heirs, which can be understood. For years, however, the proposals to amend Article L._815 of the Social Security Code have followed, but all these calls and amendments aimed at abolishing inheritance recovery remain a dead letter! The cost of such deletion is not even evaluated, notwithstanding the inevitable financial inadmissibility of those amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, GDR, SOC, UDI-I and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] For too many years, our assembly has been trying in vain to finance agricultural pensions. Let us all end the present inequity together by beginning with political will and restoring this text to its original version, which is much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u96	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u97	"Perseverance, this is the first virtue of the farmer. I do not know if our rapporteur, André Chassaigne, knows this proverb, but if we consider this morning, at second reading, the bill he is again submitting to our discussion, it is also thanks to his legendary tenacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u99	This text aimed at ensuring the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas is capable of remedying a situation which we can all share: that of the weakness of agricultural pensions. Indeed, farmers' pensions, and even more so those of their spouses and family workers, are, of comparable duration of activity, lower than those of other pensioners in our country, even though it is necessary to take into account the fact that many farm pensioners are multi-pensioned. It is known that the average retirement of farm managers or farm enterprises is around 700 euros. If we compare it with the poverty line set at EUR 1015 and the minimum old age at EUR 903, it is clear that it is well below the social thresholds. This, of course, reflects first and foremost the low level of agricultural income, since it directly affects the level of pensions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u100	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u101	... but it is also due to the late introduction in these professions of certain basic elements for pension social security, such as the compulsory supplementary scheme which was only introduced in 2003. However, the health crisis that we are going through is a strong demonstration of the considerable importance of these professions, which enable us to satisfy the primary and vital need of our population: that of its food. Indeed, it is thanks to our strong and preventive agriculture that our food security was ensured. While this crisis has allowed us to focus on the basic needs of our country, the agricultural sector undoubtedly occupies a major place there. As worthy representatives of the nation, we have a duty to listen to those who feed our fellow citizens in an attempt to correct the irregularity of their precariousness. The so-called reform of the universal pension system also took into account this situation and the need to raise the low pensions of farmers, but also, let us recall, those of the self-employed. The text proposed here has, among other things, the merit of dealing with all current agricultural pensioners. The Group of the European People's Party therefore welcomes the adoption of this bill in the Committee on Social Affairs and the work done to amend, with a view to social justice, its original provisions. A capping scheme has thus been introduced by an amendment aimed, on the one hand, at ensuring the financial sustainability of the scheme and, on the other hand, at taking into account polypensioners with other resources, including wealth income in particular. This text, which we will all vote for, I hope, could be the first step before more attention is given to co-workers and then to family caregivers. The Agricultural Guidance Act of 9 July 1999 had already made it possible to create the status of collaborating spouse, an essential step in the recognition of spouses of heads of farms. In addition, the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the CAPTE, now obliges the head of the farm or agricultural enterprise to declare the status of the spouse, partner of the PACS or partner to the business formalities centre; This legislative provision aims to strengthen their protection and this dynamic can only be beneficial. However, much remains to be done because according to the data of the DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – while the average pensions of non-farm pensioners are 710 euros, they only reach 570 euros for women, who make up the majority of the spouses-collaborators. We must therefore, in the future, pay particular attention to these workers of the shadows so that a real revalorisation of their work can be achieved. This is a major issue in terms of equality between women and men. [[Applause on a few benches of the LT and LR groups. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] Finally, I remain convinced that guaranteeing our farmers a more dignified minimum pension will give a little hope to this often mistreated profession. We must act together, through our parliamentary work, to give this noble profession a more serene prospect of the future. While raising the value of farmers' work is essential, securing agricultural retirement also makes sense. Mr rapporteur, this proposal for a law allows us to take a new step in this respect, and we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u102	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u103	740 euros per month: this is on average the amount of farmers' retirement pensions, i.e. 760 euros for men and 580 euros for women, even though the average retirement of the French is 1290 euros... Look for the error. Even today, one in three farmers has a pension of less than 350 euros: this is simply unacceptable. Our farmers – and I have a special thought for the wine growers in my constituency of Hérault – are those who sculpt our landscapes, who create this unique harmony in each of our territories and, above all, those who feed us. Anyway, they're France, they're France. But the bureaucratic state does not know or do not want to show its gratitude to them, as if they were only second-class French, of another time because far too far from the connected territories of the new world. As of 1 January 2017, retirement pensions for farm managers or farm enterprises are set at a minimum of 75% of the SMIC and no reassessment has taken place since then. The average level of an agricultural pension is now lower than the solidarity allowance for the elderly and the poverty line. Our pension system now seems to be unable to fulfil one of its main objectives: the preservation of a decent standard of living at the end of work. And the least we can say is that a pension of 75% of the SMIC, in 2020, is really not fat: 914 euros per month, well below the symbolic bar of the 1000 euros demanded by the entire agricultural profession. The upgrading of agricultural retirement pensions to 85% of SMIC is therefore welcome. It was more than time. I would therefore like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and in particular its chairman, Mr Chassaigne, for having taken the question in arms and for having put this bill back on the agenda, a text for which I will obviously vote, and preferably in its original version. Within this Chamber, demands have multiplied in all groups to achieve its objective. I myself have tabled amendments, and I recall that an article in one of my bills was dedicated to this issue... But it was hardly lost. Worse, in February 2020, during the discussions on pension reform, the President of the Republic felt that this upgrading was impossible because it represented a cost of 1.1 billion. New blow for our peasants. As if they didn't deserve France to mobilize for them, as if those who did grow, germinate and harvest the wheat had to settle for a few crumbs! This revalorisation of pensions must of course take place for current retirees but also be anticipated now for future retirees. This is all the more urgent given that the average age of farm managers was over 49 years in 2017. Future retirees must have confidence in the future. A flat, however, and of size, several of the speakers have already said this: the majority voted in committee a crunching according to the amount of the pension, all schemes combined, to ensure equity between insured single-pensioned polypensioners, which will put an end, as President Chassaigne says, to the universality of the minimum pension guarantee, and significantly reduce the number of beneficiaries of the guarantee of a pension to 85 % of the SMIC: more than one in three retirees could be excluded from the scheme. At the end of the same career as their colleagues, some will not benefit because they will have a supplementary pension. You will admit this, ladies and gentlemen, and what a shame! And then, like all the members of the opposition, I regret that this increase in pensions only takes place from 1 January 2022. Why wait two more years? Even the president of the MSA, Pascal Cormery, considers that there is no technical problem in this respect and that the mutual is in a position to apply this revalorisation of pensions as from 1 January 2021. Then why wait? And even if my preference, you have understood, goes unquestionably to an increase as soon as next year, I propose an intermediate solution so that farm managers can benefit from a 5% increase in their retirement by 2021. Thus, as of 1 January 2021, their pension would be 80 per cent of SMIC and no longer 75 per cent, before reaching the rate of 85 per cent in 2022. I hope that you will welcome this proposal, ladies and gentlemen: it is a matter of respect for our farmers, a question of dignity for our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u104	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u105	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u106	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u107	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u108	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u109	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u110	The revalorisation of pensions for farmers who have liquidated their pensions – those referred to as the dehumanizing "stock" – is a much-anticipated step forward in the last 25 years. I would like to welcome the commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government, speaking in the voice of Secretary of State Laurent Pietraszewski, who, together with the majority, will enable this historic progress. But I also want to stress the value of the work done to draft this bill, in a collective, trans-party and cross-cutting approach. I particularly welcome the commitment of President Chassaigne, Olivier Damaisin and all those who have contributed to this work. Far beyond the financial aspect, which is not negligible since it is a matter of guaranteeing farmers a pension of up to 85% of the SMIC, the text also lays down a strong social act by giving back purchasing power to agricultural pensioners. Let us realize that the proposed re-evaluation represents the equivalent of a thirteenth month! But it is also an important human act, capable of appeasing those who, so far, did not feel recognized through their retirement pension, after having worked for many years in the service of society to ensure the most beautiful of missions: to feed the country and the people, while preserving biodiversity and the environment, whatever the circumstances. The health crisis we have been experiencing over the past few months has shown us how well agriculture and the agri-food sector are doing, thanks to the unwavering commitment of women farmers. This bill represents a first step towards more justice and equity – a first step only, because it will be necessary to recognize and consider spouses and collaborators, especially women, but also family caregivers. So there is still a long way to go to move towards a more universal and fairer pension system, first of all by reworking the question of capping. As part of the next pension reform, which will soon resume in Parliament, I look forward to...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u111	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u112	...that strong measures be taken to meet the expectations of a majority of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, it is proposed that the application of the measure be effective on 1 January 2022. I hope that this date will be the subject of an order that will make it possible to advance this implementation as soon as the management bodies of the various pension plans are operational. On 2 February 2017, I was in the Chamber to vote on this bill at first reading. It was a day full of hope. This hope has been disappointed, but this 18 June 2020 is a great day for me, as I think it is, for all of us here, but especially for those who deserve it – women farmers and farmers, to whom it is necessary to ensure the most beautiful of values: dignity. Let us be worthy, ladies and gentlemen, and let us vote on this bill for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u113	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u114	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u115	Mr Secretary of State, I listened carefully to you earlier on doing an exercise in the rostrum of satisfaction – or self-satisfaction – on your part and on that of a majority who would have magnanimously agreed to vote on this text last week in committee. In fact, on social networks, we attended a festival of self-satisfaction by some members of the majority who had participated in this adoption. But the reality is stubborn: three years ago, in February 2017, I voted for this text here, like many Members present today, and like most of your predecessors, colleagues, at a time when the La République en marche group was still only a wish. At the time, we knew that this major breakthrough was essential for the agricultural world. The reality is that the tactics of a government and a majority who resorted to a blocked vote in the Senate to push the High Assembly to reject what was then an arrangement of this text made farmers lose three years. Do not aggravate your case with the amendment that you adopted last week in committee, which would postpone the deadline to 2022, because it would not be three years later that you would lose those farmers who, as many of our colleagues have said, are suffering from a small pension, but five years. President Chassaigne referred earlier to the "foundation" of this text, and I agree with it, because this bill is not an end. Indeed, the challenge of agriculture, the challenge of our agricultural model, is also the resumption of farms. In the next five to ten years, 25% – a quarter! – Farmers will retire. The challenge is therefore to ensure the transmission of farms to keep our family model. Indeed, even if the schemes exist, there remains a very high risk of agricultural land grabbing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u116	Yes, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u117	... which is now not done on-line, thanks to the crucial role of SAFER, land development and rural settlement companies, but through the acquisition of shares of agricultural companies by large industrial groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] So tomorrow, when this text has secured our farmers, we will have to go further to fight against this grabbing and ensure that our family farming model can persist, because it is also about our food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u120	Bravo, Julien!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u121	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u122	I associate myself with this statement by Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, Member of Parliament for Dordogne. For years, agricultural pensions had been expected to be upgraded for current and future pensioners. This had not been done since 2014, when the amount of these pensions had been increased to 75% of the agricultural SMIC. It will finally reach, thanks to a trans-party struggle, fair and common sense, 85% of this agricultural SMIC – which, I would remind you, is lower than the SMIC. This is good, because farmers have contributed with their guts to make France a great agricultural and agri-food power, but half of the problem is forgotten. Indeed, even if we are right, as some colleagues in committee called us, the retirement of co-workers still has an average of 546 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u124	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Yet, and I can testify, the work has been the same on the ground: field and livestock work, accounting and administrative management of the company, no weekends or holidays, or so little! Spouses, often women, really deserve better. The Government knows this, who had tabled an amendment in the Senate to upgrade the pensions of co-workers and family workers by 5 per cent on 1 January 2020 – a small gesture, but a gesture despite everything – but this amendment was lost in the limbos of the parliamentary shuttle. I have no doubt that this subject will come back, because it is impossible for us to talk about spousal retirement as part of the second reading of the bill by amending it. It's a strange situation. As if we could talk about the retirement of the operators, not to mention that of their closest collaborators! Is this not likely to increase the gap? This is an issue that will certainly need to be revisited. I fully trust the Government for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u125	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u126	Perhaps we will finally be able to give decent pensions to our farmers. Dear André Chassaigne, your project is not revolutionary, we agree. It's just common sense, social justice, a little humanity. A farmer I know – and for cause, she is my sister – receives 640 euros of retirement per month for a life of labor. Last week, a farmer, a farmer who worked seven days a week and 24 hours a day, or at least seventy hours a week, came to tell me that when he retired, he was offered 740 euros. The farmer is also a business manager. It is estimated that a lot of investment is needed in agriculture before a small harvest is made: in terms of investment, it is similar to heavy industry. A farmer also provides between four and eight jobs in management, logistics, accounting, mechanics and various agricultural services. It is therefore a major economic driver for most of our territories, and rural territories are still very much in France compared to urban territories. Farmers are therefore useful to the community and deserve us to make an effort for them. [[Applause on a few benches of the LT, IUD-I, SOC and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not vote for the proposed cut. To plagiarize well-known advertising, our farmers are worth it. They deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u128	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u129	I sometimes wonder whether politics is, in the end, that a history of permanent procrastination, because every decision we have to make – and we cannot say that we have not defended it for several years – is constantly being pushed back to the Greek calends, as reports to come, decisions to be taken later and future bills that will finally bring us this Holy Grail of a decent agricultural retreat. Article 1 has been completely revised from its original version, as the Government has introduced a cap that excludes polypensioners from the scheme. For the record, this is the case of 90% of farm managers, which means that the vast majority of farmers are deliberately excluded from the general scheme proposed by President Chassaigne. This is a clear will of the Government, which seems very cautious when it comes to protecting its budget by preventing pensioners living below the poverty line from earning 100 euros more, and which has therefore tabled an amendment that will be discussed at the beginning of the discussion of this article and will bring down all ours, which were intended to rewrite the original text. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and FI groups and on a few benches of the LR group. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] I therefore encourage all of you to vote on the sub-amendments that we have tabled in order to mitigate the effect of the amendment introduced by the Government in order to introduce this crumbling, so that not only pensions may be worthy, but we, as Members, too, may be worthy of this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u130	On Article 1, I have before me an amendment No 17, which is the subject of several sub-amendments, Nos 26 to 54. Subamendments Nos. 26 to 52 are identical, as are subamendments Nos. 24 to 54. The Secretary of State has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u131	Mr. Viala, have no concern about the role of the Minister of Agriculture and Food in arbitration and the conduct of the Government's line in this bill. Mr Didier Guillaume has been present at every moment with me to carry out all the arbitrations that constitute the Government's line, and I have no doubt that you understand that a member of the Government explicitly responsible for pension matters is coming to the National Assembly to discuss the issues that relate to them. You have enough political experience to know that ministers work together, speak together and hold the Government's voice together. As I said in my opening remarks, this Government amendment incorporates all the provisions that – perhaps not well understood – were adopted in committee on a proposal not by the Government, but by a broad and well-established majority. The Government has, of course, taken a close look at the provisions adopted. However, since the amendments to the text presented in committee by President Chassaigne were intended to create social justice, those who already benefited from a pension, which in total represented more than 85 per cent of the SMIC, were not affected by his bill, and the Government therefore considered that the amendment introduced by the combined majority was a good amendment. That is why the rewriting of the Article 1 which we are proposing, which is not intended to distort President Chassaigne's proposal, I have made a commitment and I reiterate it, takes up the three important points: the revalorisation of farmers' pensions to 85% of the SMIC for a full career, the addition of a condition for the liquidation of the entire pension rights in order to benefit from this minimum amount, as I mentioned, the introduction of a possible capping of the differential supplement and the entry into force of the measure on 1 January 2022. The Government wishes – and the Minister of Agriculture and Food with me, Mr. Viala – that farmers can be guaranteed a retirement pension at least equal to 85% of the SMIC, and we have understood very well, Mr. President Chassaigne, the purpose of your bill and its scope – as, moreover, as it seems to me, each one on the benches of your assembly. This measure, as mentioned in some speeches, coincides with the commitment of the President of the Republic to introduce a minimum pension which can be increased to 1000 euros from 2022 for all insured persons who have completed a full career. The Government's amendment clarifies the drafting of the text on the differential supplement of supplementary pension points. It is true, as you have seen, Mr Chassaigne, that, in the course of your work and your hearings, the constitution of agricultural retirement is relatively complex, because it is based on points, and we will have to examine this carefully and accurately. We hope that all the retired farmers concerned, those who have already liquidated their pensions and those who will liquidate them tomorrow, will be able to benefit from this minimum pension of 85% of the SMIC for a full career. As I said earlier, the Government also defends the conditions of subsidiarity and credence, for reasons of equity among insured persons. As far as the date is concerned, since you wanted to start this debate right now, let us look at it from a concrete and operational point of view. As I said earlier, my political commitment is also due to the fact that I have often observed gaps between the promises of one or another and the reality of what citizens see in their daily lives. The National Assembly and the Government must be able to keep their promises to farmers and assure them that what is promised will be done. There is, however, a technical necessity. The tools have evolved and the MSA is now using the DRM, or monthly resource scheme, which allows the differentiated evolution of pensions. This tool is very recent – it has been in operation since 2019 – and it will probably take a few months to complete all this work of rereading and recounting the set of liquidated pensions in order to prepare tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u132	Apologies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u133	Pretences!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u134	What I'm telling you is not extraordinary: it's only reality. When you want to do politics, you have to be very precise and rigorous, and know the subject well, both technically and politically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u135	That's not convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote broadly on this amendment by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u137	I have before me several identical sub-amendments, Nos 26, 27, 30, 32, 34, 37, 40, 43, 48 and 52. The rapporteur, Mr André Chassaigne, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u138	I will be willingly brief in order to allow the various speakers to develop their arguments. Why this sub-amendment, which aims to remove the capping device? You must have been very surprised, Mr Secretary of State, when you discovered the subamendment signed by several members of the majority. I know you're very attached to the separation of powers. Nor did we expect at all this shock, this amendment tabled at the last moment, which introduces a crumbling, evacuating about a third of the potential beneficiaries of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u139	Very bad surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u140	I myself was very surprised: we worked together for several weeks, conducted hearings, and not once the Members of all sensitivities, who worked with me to prepare the report and the examination of the text, did not mention the principle of slashing – not once. I had the feeling that we had built a coalition of projects, and the reading of this amendment revealed to me a coalition of opportunity, which deeply disconcerted me. Indeed, we had heard the MSA, the agricultural trade unions, the National Association of Agricultural Retirees of France – our sting – but not once the question arose: we were therefore not able to discuss it, nor to assess the consequences of this last-hour amendment. Secondly, it is true that the measure will present difficulties of application, although the MSA states that it will be able to solve technical problems, even if this is expected to be difficult, for it to be effective on 1 January 2022. It must be understood that your measure will create a single case of pension calculation. A multi-pensioned farmer, because he owned a small farm and did not live from his work, and was therefore forced to have a complementary activity, will be penalized; its acquired rights will not be taken into account, whereas they should be taken into account in the same way as that of the farmer who has not had any complementary activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u141	I call Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne to support sub-amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u142	It is also intended to remove the capping device. Indeed, since the adoption of the text unanimously on the benches of the National Assembly in 2017, times have changed; expectations and commitments are even stronger. However, as Mr Chassaigne has just pointed out, this mechanism does not correspond to the commitments we have made to the agricultural world, nor to the will that has brought about this bill. With this text, we defend a message of appeasement and unity. In the current crisis, it is important to show that we are all united, and above all to strive for equity. Whatever the field, we must show that the state is there to support and accompany, not to create mistrust. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, FI and LR groups]] This capping device, if maintained, would necessarily create disparities, since it would make the guarantee "85 % of SMIC" de facto optional. In the present case, it leads to a reduction in the number of beneficiaries from 290000 to 196000 and is accompanied by a significant reduction in the associated net gain. In addition to the restrictive and unprecedented nature of this measure, which is not found in any other pension bill, as well as very concrete implementation problems – the MSA has confirmed this. For these reasons, it seems obvious that this is not an appropriate mechanism: it may rather add new problems to those we are trying to solve. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority: do not darken the sky which, for a short day, had cleared up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u143	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support sub-amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u144	Don't get me wrong, Secretary of State: I never said that you were not in a position to deal with agricultural pensions. I said that the subject being specifically agricultural, it would have been a good idea for the Minister of Agriculture to be at your side. I would add that your amendment perfectly illustrates my point: it is not a question of calculating a crunching of retirement pensions, as may be necessary in the more general law that you have defended, and which you may defend again, but rather of correcting an old injustice: agricultural pensioners have been receiving a pension of about 75% of the SMIC for some years, which must be increased to at least 85%. It is incomprehensible that your amendment would exclude from the scheme almost one third of the potential beneficiaries of the measure, out of about 300,000, on the grounds that they would have received other income, which would qualify for other pensions. If the amendment is adopted, 100,000 people will be excluded, whose farms were so small that their incomes were insufficient, so that they went to seek a supplementary income, while working full-time on the farm, to support their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u146	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] That's where we are! That is why I would have liked to hear the Minister of Agriculture on this subject, who commits our nation to our farmers: it cannot be dealt with only with a calculator.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u148	I call Mr Le Fur to support sub-amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u149	We were making real collective progress – I salute those who took the initiative, especially President Chassaigne – and you want to sweeten it. Indeed, your amendment aims to incorporate a capping scheme, depending on the retirement income acquired elsewhere: 100,000 people will be deprived of a pension to 85% of the SMIC!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u151	You break with a major principle: retirement is a right, not a differential payment calculated on the basis of other income. Such reasoning is relevant in the case of social assistance, but if retirement is recognized as a right, the amount of the pension must depend solely on the work performed and the number of years worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u153	Who are the 100,000 victims of your decision? Most of them are women, since they were the ones who had to work outside. You break with the logic of law. You put forward the argument of complexity, but you add one: the calculation that ASMs will have to perform will increase the complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u155	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, be reasonable: do not deprive 100,000 farmers, 100,000 of our elders, of their retirement. You took a first step, followed by two steps backwards; Avoid this abomination – I use the word knowingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u156	What didn't you do earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u157	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I want to make myself understood: I am less subtle than the president of the majority group, but at least I make myself understood. Avoid that 100,000 people are victims of your decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u158	Look at your turpitudes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u159	I call Mrs Jeanine Dubie to support sub-amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u160	Like the previously defended sub-amendments, it is intended to remove the capping device. As I said in the general discussion, it turns a replacement income associated with a contribution payment into social assistance. That is what we are talking about, as Mr Le Fur has just rightly explained. Today, the minimum retirement pension for farmers is 75% of the SMIC for a full career. We are only asking that this minimum be increased to 85% of SMIC, a simple 10% increase. I believe that farmers deserve this effort. Secretary of State, in the summary statement of your amendment, you mention 85% of the net agricultural SMIC. Why is that precision? Is there a lower agricultural SMIC than the general SMIC? If that were the case, farmers would be doubly penalized by your measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u161	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC, GDR groups and on a few benches of the LR group]] It is identical to the previous ones and aims to remove the capping device. What can I say about my colleagues? I would like to know for what other professions, what other pensions, such arrangements have been adopted, implying that the right to retirement after the pursuit of a professional activity, whatever the nature of it, cannot be exercised in order to obtain a pension? Would agricultural pensioners not have the "privilege" to be prevented from exceeding a maximum of their pension – on the pretext that they were forced to work alongside their farm, because they could not live from their agricultural work?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u163	That's the right question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS, GDR, FI and LR groups]] Mr. Le Fur explained the subject perfectly: most of them are women, they are very numerous in my constituency, who worked as caregivers, and they combined the profession of care giver or home helper and the agricultural activity, for which they did not contribute. They will receive the magnificent 900 Euro aide-sanitaire pension, to which they will not be able to add the amount to which they could have been entitled in respect of their agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u165	That's the whole point of pension reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u166	It's at stake now! Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u167	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u168	It seems to me that everything has been said. Indeed, this capping constitutes a significant reduction in the guarantee to receive a minimum pension of 85% of the SMIC – we are talking about 85%, not 200 % – ; It strikes with full force the universal character of the measure, and breaks with the expectations of the country's farmers. This will significantly reduce the number of beneficiaries, and will make the calculation methods more complex. In the end, it is the whole system that will be weakened: the deletion of paragraphs 10 to 12 is essential to ensure a coherent application of the guarantee, and that is why we defend it, as Members from all benches do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u169	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Larrivé, in support of sub-amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u170	I simply believe that it is time to redress a very old injustice. I am sad to say that those who preceded us on these benches have not been very glorious on these issues. I am not criticising the current majority; I note that the subject has not been dealt with for decades. Three years ago, we made an attempt to do so. As I had the chance to repeat in June 2017, I was already there in February 2017: we then voted André Chassaigne's bill, saying that we had to raise the level of agricultural pensions as early as January 1, 2018. The measure could not be applied – it must be applied now. This should not be done in a biased manner, with a one-year crunching or offset. In this regard, I do not really understand the position of the Government and the majority. You make technical arguments, but you must impose the strength of the policy on the administration. It's your job as service manager to solve this technical difficulty. All farmers – no cut – as early as 2021 – not 2022 –: it's pretty simple. The proposal is not extremely costly for public finances, it is reasonable, common sense, just: it should bring all Members together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u171	It's a matter of justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u172	It is also a question of defending France's agricultural independence. It is an economic issue that concerns dignity; This measure must bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u173	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u174	Many arguments were made; I'm particularly sensitive to Annie Chapelier's. Are there other areas in which we have worked so hard? What do we gain, knowing the state of the nation, the crisis in which it is located and the risky nature of the recovery, to organize the war of the poor, the competition of those who receive 800 euros with those who receive 900 or 1000 euros? Who sows injustice, reaps anger. We must do justice: you are right, Mr. Larrivé, this is not a technical or administrative issue. It is a matter of principle, and we have too late to resolve it. Principles and virtue must guide our deliberations. If there is a question – one –, Secretary of State, that the Government could have asked if it had been courageous and free of any demagogy towards certain organizations, it is that of the tax base of social contributions. Mr. Moreau is familiar with the subject. Through tax and social optimisation, over-indebtedness, and sometimes over-mechanization of farms, we are ruining the basis of social contributions. It is a real problem of agricultural solidarity that we need to rethink. It would have been interesting to do so with a view to improvement. [[Applause on the SOC, EDS, GDR and FI benches]] But organizing the competition between the most responsive, who, in order to survive in the rural territories, – while being peasants in a family association that was sometimes blurred and uncertain before 2002, when we began reforms – took on a service of home help, drove a bus or accepted a small job as a mailman, it is indecent. We must find the thread of history, that of justice and the dignity of the poorest. The cry of the earth and the cry of the poor are the same cry, which we must hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u175	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support sub-amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u176	As with previous amendments, this sub-amendment tends to delete paragraphs 10 to 12 of the Government's amendment. Mr Secretary of State and ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are talking about polypensioners. At home, in Brittany – Mr.Le Fur or Mr.Daniel can testify – some of them, 70, 75 or 80 years old, who, while being chiefs of operations, worked a few hours in granite quarries or in the Citroën factory in Rennes, which was then familiar with its hours of glory, now receive a small retirement of 150 to 200 euros. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LT, LR and non-attached Members]] So we are talking about modest pensioners. However, when I tabled a bill here to regulate or cap the remuneration of certain senior officials appointed to the high administrative and independent authorities of the State, it was very difficult for me to make myself understood. It was the cross and the banner! Today, the one who has just been appointed first President of the Court of Auditors announces that he is thinking: will he receive, in addition to his monthly remuneration of 14000 euros, his retirement as European Commissioner and perhaps as a Member of the European Parliament? I encourage him to send a clear and precise signal. The issue of small pensions, which we are opening today, raises the question of fairness, social justice and solidarity with farmers in our country. The first brick that Mr. Damaisin spoke of must be solid, because it will serve as a foundation. That is why we want to achieve universality in order to guarantee to all agricultural pensioners a minimum of 85% of the SMIC, i.e. around 1000 euros. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the GDR group]] I will conclude, Mr Secretary of State, with a question about your amendment: if a farmer has a few hectares of land for rent and receives rent income as such, will he be considered a polypensioner?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u177	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor to support sub-amendment No 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u178	Before defending this sub-amendment, which differs from the previous ones, I welcome the work that Mr Chassaigne has been doing for years on the subject and the tenacity he has shown. Our ridings are nearby. We are both rural deputies. The dignity of pensioners and the solidarity we owe them are important issues for us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the SOC benches]] I'm a farmer. My father receives a monthly pension of 740 euros. I know these problems by heart. So I don't want to be a politician, or to play with the words of slamming or a chief operating officer. Your speech seemed legitimate to me, Mrs Chapelier, but I note that, in general, the women of farmers were not heads of farms but co-workers. Their situation will therefore not be resolved by the proposed legislation. This is one of the issues that we need to address in the context of pension reform. I repeat, I will not amalgamate or mix. The cut is aimed at the most responsive, who often receive more than 1000 euros of pension, but we know that the farmer's job, far from being able to be part-time, often requires much more than full-time work. The proposed law must above all restore dignity to all farmers whose average retirement now amounts to 700 euros. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By this sub-amendment supported by our MODEM and Agir colleagues together, we propose that the reform should enter into force at the latest – and if possible before – on 1 January 2022. While some obstacles need to be removed, our goal is to ensure that all farm pensioners receive a pension equal to 85% of the SMIC as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u179	We come to a new set of identical sub-amendments, Nos. 24, 28, 29, 31, 33, 35, 36, 39, 42, 46, 49, 50 and 54. The rapporteur, Mr André Chassaigne, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u180	The sub-amendment is intended to replace, at the end of paragraph 13, the year 2021 to the year 2022. I recall that the reform was voted unanimously in this House in February 2017 and that, had it not been blocked in the Senate, it would have been applied on January 1, 2018. It therefore seems logical that it should enter into force as early as 2021. The reason why the Government is asking for a postponement of the measure in 2022 is beyond our control. Mr. Secretary of State makes a technical argument. I agree that the extraordinary innovation that we want will be difficult to implement, since, in setting the level of agricultural pensions, we will have to regularly take into account the revaluations of other pensions indexed to SMIC, inflation or the point in the public service. But in the press conference it held last Friday, when you had already voted in committee on an amendment with the entry into force of the 2022 text, the MSA was very clear: it stated that it could implement the reform by 2021. Therefore, there is no reason to postpone its application to 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u181	I call Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne to support sub-amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u182	As the rapporteur has pointed out, we propose, for the entry into force of the guarantee "85 % of the SMIC", to go back to 2021, three years after the date that would have been effective had the bill taken its normal course. For years, agricultural pensioners, agricultural professionals and their representative organizations have been mobilizing to accelerate this reform. The emergency is real. Moreau told us to go faster "if possible." Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I kindly remind you that it took you two months to remove the tax on wealth. Nothing will prevent you from implementing the reform as early as 1 January 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on several benches of the SOC and LR groups]] Behind our proposals, there are women and men who have been waiting for a long time. The accounting report you're asking for would be a new affront to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u183	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support sub-amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u184	Mr Secretary of State, most of the agricultural pensioners we are talking about continue to work, some because they have financial needs, others because their voluntary work is essential for the next generation to ensure the sustainability of the farms. After telling them in 2012 that they would receive 75% of the SMIC, while delaying the implementation of the reform to 2018, and then announcing to them in 2017 that they would receive 85% of the SMIC, by delaying the application of the measure to 2021, we cannot delay it for another year, on the grounds that computers could not take it into account. The MSA is formal. It will have the technical means to apply it by 2021. Just ask him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u186	I call Mr Le Fur to support sub-amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u187	I tabled this sub-amendment with Mr Brun. As Mr Viala pointed out, the proposed measure does not raise any technical problems. Each of us was able to interview the MSA's caisses: they are reactive. It's June – June 18, it makes sense – They will therefore have six months to prepare. The computers will be ready,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u188	Mr. The Fur is a specialist in new technologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u189	... especially since the expected number of beneficiaries is not considerable. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Don't play the watch, colleagues! Do not act as the previous majority that postponed the application of a mechanism at the end of its term of office. How would you explain such a decision to pensioners? They are informed by the media and social networks. Let's not deceive the public. They know we're going to spend $15 billion on aeronautics and $5 billion on Renault.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u190	It's demagogy, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u191	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] They see there's money and there wouldn't be money for them? Why do you want to shift the entry into force of the measure from 2021 to 2022? Because it concerns farm pensioners, who weigh less and whose strike force is not very important? They may not be on the street, but we must respect them. It is not at a time when we are spending on everything, perhaps for very good reasons, that we can allow ourselves to be so petty about those to whom we are indebted. ("Very good! » on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u192	I call Mrs Jeanine Dubie to support sub-amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u193	The sub-amendment is identical to the previous ones. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Mr Secretary of State, you are putting forward, in order to delay the implementation of the reform to 2022, the fact that it will be difficult to implement. But it's the crease you're proposing that will make it complex! Under the original measure, it is sufficient to increase the amount of the farm operator's pension to 85% of the SMIC: a simple operation is sufficient. All MSAs are capable of doing so and all computer devices allow it. I repeat, you're the one who's making things difficult. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Moreau defend Subamendment No 38, of which Mr Damaisin is the first signatory. I believe that deep down, you all want the reform to apply on 1 January 2021. The Secretary of State referred to the technical and financial arrangements. Basically, these are Bercy's arguments. Let's stop with that! Today, we have the chance to make a strong political decision and enforce it by 2021. We have been working on the subject for three years. Mr Chassaigne recalled that in 2017, the text had been voted unanimously. And we're still talking in 2020! In addition, the bill will go to the Senate again before we come back. Let's go! Let us adopt it as the effective date of January 1, 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] This will be a good measure for farmers, even if, I know, the work will not be completed and we will have to look at the retirement of the co-workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u194	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support sub-amendment No 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u195	Mr Secretary of State, I find it a pity that, by way of amendment, you are detriguing the essence of the bill. The cut you propose will leave 100,000 people at the edge of the road. In addition, you want to shift the application of a measure that people really need by a year. The farmers, Mr. Secretary of State, are respectable people who work and, above all, have cost society nothing. They need a proper retirement. This measure could be fully implemented from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u196	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u197	I would like you, Mr. Secretary of State, to answer my question: are there any other schemes for securing retirement pensions, or do you reserve this "favour" for agricultural pensioners? The bill tabled by Mr Chassaigne, in its original version, aimed to improve pensions for about 290,000 people, when former farm pensioners are 1.9 million and the average pension for the 3.2 million retired self-employed is 740 euros per month. So it's a drop of water in the ocean of the misery of agricultural pensioners! [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The MSA has the technical means to implement this proposal. It is simply because of a lack of political will that you postpone its application to 2022. The date of 2021 seems to be the minimum union. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] Why does it bother you so much to allow very poor people to simply become poor?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u198	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support sub-amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u199	With this sub-amendment, the members of the La France group, like most of their colleagues, ask that the date of application of the measure be reduced to 2021. As Mr.Andre Chassaigne said, it should have come into force as early as 2018. We must not wait any longer. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in order to question the labour code and remove the solidarity tax on wealth, you have been able to act quickly. We are waiting for the same speed, for the establishment of a "decent" pension – there is a need for quotes – for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u200	Mr Guillaume Larrivé's sub-amendment No 42 is being defended. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u201	This has been said in every way: the problem is not technical but political, since we have the means to implement the measure in 2021. I have heard reactions on the benches of the majority, and I just want to restore the truth. No one can challenge it in good faith: it was between 1997 and 2002, under Lionel Jospin's government, that the law for the creation of a compulsory supplementary pension scheme for non-farm workers was adopted and that the basic retirement of farm managers was increased to 50% of the SMIC. Ten years of false flats, marked by non-indexation of pensions, followed, so that the goal of guaranteeing 75% of SMIC pensions could not be achieved – we stayed at 70.34% of SMIC. In 2012, we took over this project, and we are finishing it today, by supporting Mr Chassaigne's bill, which increases the guarantee from 75% to 85% of the SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u202	You voted the bill three months before the presidential elections! You're making fun of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u203	For the past three years, the situation has stagnated, for reasons that are unique to you, and which are indeed respectable. Today, we finally have a political space to adopt this measure almost unanimously. It's not time to sneeze, trying to win a year! If we want to raise the political narrative to the level of popular expectations, we must vote in favour of the application of the measure in 2021. That is the meaning of this sub-amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we should listen to each other, especially at this time. Let us not be hard on the weakest and sweetest with the powerful, as was all too often the case under this legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u204	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support sub-amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u205	We have already kept the future beneficiaries of this measure waiting since 2017 – it's been three years. Moreover, since the scheme concerns modest pensions, there is an urgent need. We "procrastinate", as one colleague says. It feels like it's about saving time, probably to make money, which bothers me, even if I understand the Government's perspective. From the moment the measure is unanimous and we are ready, we must go! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] The question of the date of entry into force of this measure for small agricultural retreats makes me think a lot of the debates on the advisability of extending the allocation of the combatant's card to soldiers hired in Algeria between 1962 and 1964.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u207	I was gonna say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u208	We're the one who created this map!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u209	You dreamed of it, we did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u210	The measure has been delayed decades before being implemented by this majority and this government. The beneficiaries are grateful to us for this – as all Members have supported this measure. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Please, let us not yet make the mistake of making our fellow citizens wait. They waited three years; the measure is urgent and unanimous. It is essential to maintain the date of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u211	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, in support of sub-amendment No 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u212	It aims to allow the implementation of the 85 % SMIC scheme for farmers with a full career, starting on 1 January 2021, with the hope that the technical work of the MSA will allow it. Indeed, the adoption of this measure was long awaited by agricultural pensioners, especially those of the generation that worked hard to ensure the country's food self-sufficiency, not to mention its hours and efforts. It is therefore gratifying that, thanks to the work of the perigurdin Germinal Peiro, during the previous legislature, thanks to the pugnacity of Mr Chassaigne, whom I salute, thanks to the hard work of Mr Damaisin in finding a compromise, and to the mobilization of members of both the majority and the opposition to convince our colleagues, one of the virtues of parliamentary work is illustrated: it enables consensus to emerge through the debate. However, with this arrangement, we are only dealing with part of the problem of agricultural pensions – I am thinking of the co-workers, often women. Let us set the date of implementation of the measure under discussion on January 1, 2021, because, with such a timetable, we can quickly tackle the issue of the retirement of women farmers, and find solutions to the general problem of small pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u213	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u214	This bill aims to guarantee a minimum pension level of 85% of SMIC for agricultural self-employed pensioners. This sub-amendment and the previous ones are of course aimed at re-establishing the 2021 date for the application of the measure. The President of the Central Bank of the MSA himself, Mr Pascal Cormery, states that "there is no technical problem with the MSA".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u215	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u216	Especially since we're only in June!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u217	"We have the means to apply this revalorisation of pensions as of January 1, 2021. We have been asking for it for years; It could involve 290,000 self-employed pensioners under the agricultural scheme", he said. Moreover, the precarious situation of retired farmers is such that we cannot wait any longer. There is an urgent need; Let us vote in favour of the date of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u218	What is the opinion of the committee on this amendment and these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u219	I will speak in my personal capacity, not in the opinion of the majority of Commissioners, as everyone understands. I am of course against Amendment No. 17 of the Government, in its current version, although I note that it improves the drafting of the bill, drawing on those of the previous laws which had made progress in the area of agricultural retirement. Having said that, I am absolutely not in favour of the capping, and the postponement to 2022 of the measure, as I said and said again. As far as the sub-amendments are concerned, I am of course in favour, on a personal basis, of the series of identical amendments aimed at removing the capping device. I also express a favourable opinion on the series of identical sub-amendments aimed at maintaining 2021 as the date of application. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC, FI and LT groups]] Finally, I would like to spell out sub-amendment No 38, tabled by Olivier Damaisin. While it was you who defended, in committee, the extension of the date to 2022, you sort out a sub-amendment that opens the possibility of making an early implementation decree, if conditions permit. It's not serious! It is up to our assembly to decide the date, whatever it may be. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] Mr Damaisin, in front of this amendment, I think of a very popular expression – I hope you won't find it vulgar: "At the false-ass ball, you wouldn't be cold on your feet. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u220	This is not your level, Mr. President Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u221	We're far from René Char!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u223	It is difficult to discuss the issue calmly, paying attention to each other's arguments. Some, like Mrs. Annie Chapelier, have a very good opinion. They consider that the pension scheme proposed in Amendment No 17 has no precedent, that it is an invention of the Government, whose context they ask me to clarify. When I enumerate all the other screening devices, giving factual elements that are verifiable by all, I imagine that all these deputies will agree with the position of the Government. That would be it, to listen to the arguments of others! Article 1 is intended to ensure that all those who have liquidated their entire retirement receive at least 85% of the SMIC through the payment of a differential supplement. We simply propose that pensioners who already receive at least 85% of SMIC should not be eligible for such a supplement. That's it, the cremation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u224	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u225	Does such a device exist elsewhere? Yes, for the basic agricultural pension. But I imagine that everyone who claims to explain to me what needs to be done with regard to agricultural pensions is already aware of the reality of this system. I imagine that they already know that the minimum contribution of employees is the subject of a crumbling (Applause on several benches of the LaREM group); that they know that the minimum guaranteed, for civil servants, is already the subject of a crunching, too! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to listen to each other. If you collectively decide – and I hope the measure will be adopted – that all farmers, after a lifetime of hard work, will receive a minimum pension of 85% of the SMIC, it makes sense to specify that pensioners whose pension is already more than 85% of the SMIC will not be covered by the scheme. The Government's amendment has no other purpose. I have been asked other questions, particularly about agricultural SMIC. The raw SMIC in France is the same for everyone. Simply, conventional decisions on burden-sharing can be taken by the various branches. In this case, the actors in the agricultural sector – and not the Government – have chosen to place contributions to AGIRC-ARCCO on employees rather than employers. This must be taken into account; It is normal for contractual decisions to be possible in this respect. Mr Benoît, since you are attentive to these questions, know that the net amount of the agricultural SMIC amounts to 1206 euros, compared to 1219 euros in the other branches,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u227	... because it was decided to divide the burden differently between employees and employers in this sector. As for the gross SMIC, of course, its amount is the same for farmers, farm workers and all French. It is not a question of returning to 2022 to return to 2022. In my introductory statement, I referred to the financial situation of the farmers' pension scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u228	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u229	It is financed mainly by the solidarity of the entire national community...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u230	And special diets!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u231	...for demographic reasons. Let's recognize him! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Do we really have to imagine here that Bercy's invisible hand, like that of the market in the 19th century illustrations, would dictate the policy to be pursued for farmers? Let's get back to reality! We propose that the National Assembly give 85% of the SMIC to all those who have worked the equivalent of a full career, if they do not already have it. Nothing else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u232	Mr Secretary of State, you are giving an unfavorable opinion on the two sets of identical sub-amendments, but what is your opinion on sub-amendment No 38 defended by Mr Damaisin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u233	I am in favour of this sub-amendment, because I have heard the need for alignment. Mr Larrivé said earlier, the political will is to encourage the technical teams to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u234	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u235	There is really no reason to delay the entry into force of the revalorisation of small pensions, which, whatever it is said, will remain small. I will not dwell on the technical aspect, but it is quite possible to introduce this measure. As for the cut, it seems incomprehensible. To support him is to misunderstand the agricultural environment. I don't want to offend anyone here, but it's still a jacobine and Parisian vision of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u237	In many cases, you are not born a farmer, you become a farmer...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u238	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u239	...and this craving is a double penalty. It is first at the beginning of a career, because farmers often have less than half an IMS. Do you know what the IMS is? This is the minimum installation surface. When you don't have half an IMS, you have to pay a social contribution with lost funds, the solidarity contribution. Did you know that, ladies and gentlemen? Then, when you have paid work, you often expand your farm and it is only after you become a farmer. These situations are completely ruled out by the capping; They really don't deserve this double penalty. It is true that this sub-amendment, which we strongly dispute, will raise 146 million in the first year, as the cost of the scheme will increase from 407 million to 261 million. Should we wait, as with veterans, for no more retired farmers? As a result of demographics, their number fell by an average of 3 per cent per year: from 292000, it has recently increased to 196000. [[Marc Le Fur and Emmanuelle Ménard applaud]] Do not think you have achieved the feat of the year or century by revaluing these pensions by 10%. In our territories, we expect more social justice and equity for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u240	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Despite the last speech by President Chassaigne, who disrespectfully challenged our colleague Olivier Damaisin, whose unwavering commitment is recognized by all, I will say what I had planned to say. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As the leader, for the Republic on the move, of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet, known as EGALIM, I have lived with you moments of concord, on the occasion of the advances that we voted together during the writing of this law. Today, I can only rejoice that, by associating with the oppositions, the majority allows this major advance for the operators and for us, by ensuring fairness between the monopensioners and the polypensioners. We will soon extend it, with the improvement of the small pensions of the self-employed, artisans and traders. Of course, we will come back to the co-workers, who are not dealt with in this bill and, more broadly, to a future universal pension reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u242	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u243	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You see, President Chassaigne, I am proud to be here this morning, with you, and I will never thank Olivier Damaisin enough for having had the tenacity to continue working with you for these three years. It has been three years now, on June 18, that we are elected, and that with you we have a campaign commitment. We should all salute this work that we do collectively, instead of going over and over looking for the little beast.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u244	A hundred thousand victims!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u245	Sabotage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u246	What have we promised? To increase the minimum pension amount for 200000 pensioners who are below a certain threshold, nothing else. Working with oppositions means achieving a result through negotiation and consultation, not all their proposals are accepted. Yes, we can be proud of the work we are doing today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to have a thought for a man from my constituency, René Laganthe, and to pay tribute to him. He was president of the retired farmers' section of the Tarn. All his life, he's been fighting this fight. I have talked to him about this during my campaign and several times since the beginning of my term of office. He would have been happy today, but he was taken away by a bad disease on June 1st. He will not have the joy of knowing that this fight, which we have led alongside him, is now won.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u247	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u248	In this particular day, it is time to send some strong signs to a France on the brink of chaos. None of us here has any reason to be particularly proud of what has been done in the agricultural field, particularly in the area of pensions, for forty years; none! We all failed, lamentably. But is that a reason to act of collective contrition, as some will say, or to repair a republican injustice, as others will say? I know that the posture of the majority is sometimes difficult, given the history, but nevertheless, the symbols have never changed in this house since it was the emanation of the people. What will it do for the President of the Republic, on this 18th June, to be at Mont-Valérien, then in London, if his majority vote against this symbol? This symbol for which we can all vote together by saying: it is a necessary decision, we have taken it together. It doesn't matter whether it comes from the right or the left, it doesn't matter if it comes from the Communist Party! Was he not at the side of General de Gaulle in the Conseil national de la Résistance? I hope that once again we will not be mistaken. (Applause on the benches of the LT Group. – Mr Jacques Cattin applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u249	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u250	Mr Secretary of State, let us not be mistaken about a debate. Don't feel like you're being tried for intent: that's not the point. The debate is about a measure of social justice towards a category of French people who are particularly suffering because of a past for which neither you nor we are responsible. It is not possible to sum it up to a question of cluttering and arithmetic. We are not satisfied with the explanations for your amendment, which is precisely what makes it possible to crack. Once and for all, it must be recognized that farm pensioners have pensions that are not worthy of the hard work they have done. There is no need for consideration for the other activities they have been forced to carry out in parallel with family exploitation, because this completely diverts the issue. As far as the date is concerned, I do not think we can tell them that we are going to wait for the number of pensioners to be gradually reduced as a result of their disappearance. We need to deal with this right now. The National Assembly will grow by doing so without cries and without waiting for more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u251	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u252	This essential measure is expected by many farmers, since the Assembly had already voted in favour of this bill in 2017. We have three options for financing it: the increase in contributions, the indebtedness of the MSA funds or the use of national solidarity, i.e. the state budget. In 2017, neither Parliament nor the Government had decided how to finance the scheme. Today we choose to resort to national solidarity; It is the participation of this majority, and it is an important gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With regard to the years 2021 and 2022, Mr Chassaigne, I invite you to read the May report of the Court of Auditors on the funds of the MSA. You will see that in five of them, there are errors for 10% of pensions, which is not nothing. There is a real risk there; One cannot afford to impose a date if pensions are not properly calculated and are not fair. Let us leave a little time, let us start as soon as we are sure that the systems are reliable and that we can pay fair and correct pensions, thanks to this great advance that we will be voting for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u255	That's an excuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u256	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u257	I would like to go back to several statements: if some were full of legitimate emotion – is this not the condition of farmers? –, others seemed very populist, even misleading. [[Monique Limon and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applaud]] When I want to compare the $15 billion paid here or the $5 billion paid there to the $200 million that would be missing, I would like to remind you that we have a system by allocation, in which today's assets pay for today's pensions, and tomorrow's assets will pay for those of tomorrow. Fortunately, we are dedicated to today's and tomorrow's assets to pay for tomorrow's pensions. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applaud]] On the other hand, I am very angry about the figures mentioned, which have been repeated many times. Today, the minimum reference pension, amounting to 75% of the SMIC, is paid to 230,000 retired farmers. By increasing to 85%, and thus including those whose pensions ranged from 75% to 85%, it will be paid to 296000 retired farmers. You explain that, with the cut, it would be attributed to 190,000 of them, while there is no retroactivity. How can we go from 296000 to 190000 pensioners, knowing that they are now 230000 and that there is no retroactivity? Check your information before repeating figures that are wrong! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Secondly, we have the impression that we are going to cap agricultural pensions, whereas in reality we are going to cap the complement paid by national solidarity for particular situations. I have said all the danger of quoting a particular case. Some farmers are MPs. Would it be normal for them, at the time of their retirement, to receive a supplement paid in respect of national solidarity because they would not reach 85 % of agricultural retirement? That doesn't make any sense. Then you say that the 2021 deadline is simple to apply. But could we not, instead of contenting ourselves with a statement that seems easy on paper, check it with the MSA? I would like Mr Cormery to be heard, because his figures are not exactly the same as those contained in the Court of Auditors' report of May 2020, which I invite you to consult. This report explains that there were many computational errors when the PMR was moved to 75% because it was difficult to apply. So let's be a little more modest! Finally...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u258	No, it's over: you're almost three minutes away from speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u259	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...I would like to stress Mr Damaisin's commitment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u260	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u261	We're being tried for intent that doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u262	Who started it? I'm dreaming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u263	Let me explain: you claim that we mix the figures, that we hear nothing about them, that we confuse everything by lack of expertise on the pension system. The Secretary of State takes my question of whether other regimes benefit from the capping as an assault; I thank him for answering me. I myself took a look at the situation: for civil servants, the guaranteed minimum amounts to almost 1200 euros in the event of a full career. In the present case, this represents 85% of the SMIC, which corresponds to approximately 1200 euros. The quality of life of individuals is not the same according to these cases! Everyone knows that not all agricultural pensioners are involved – we are constantly getting big numbers: 740 euros on average, one third of farmers receiving less than 350 euros, and so on. Obviously, no one is worried that hundreds of thousands of people will not be able to benefit from this scheme and receive less than 350 euros per month! I hope that we will be more responsive during the review of the PLFSS in order to change the solidarity allowance for the elderly! [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and FI groups]] In any event, I think it is quite petty to want to lure a few people away from this compensation mechanism – which is no more than tens of millions of euros. Similarly, postponing its implementation to 2022 amounts to returning it to the Greek calends hoping that an event will occur by then so as not to have to apply it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u264	You're not listening to what we're saying! It's a dialogue of the deaf.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u265	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u266	Before deciding, everyone must be aware that those who might be the victims of this crunching have often been forced, because of the size of their exploitation, to carry out an additional activity, at the beginning or throughout their career. It is up to us to recognize their work. The farmers' deputies were mentioned; I am also thinking of farmers who have served as mayor or deputy mayor. In what way would the capping be a sign of recognition and justice for them? In short, if the government's amendment were adopted, we would miss a good opportunity to put an end to an injustice and somehow remain in the middle of the ford. The text proposed by Mr Chassaigne is a text of justice. I warn you against the temptation to denature it for reasons of simple budgetary arithmetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u267	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u268	I hear the debate well; I was just giving substantive arguments to answer it. I do not share your reading, Mr. Descoeur; Mr Turquois's remarks, on the other hand, are very explicit – he was referring to his own case, but he is not alone in this situation. Of course, it is not a question of stigmatizing farmers who have assumed political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u269	Other professions can also be combined!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u270	It is simply necessary to determine which farm managers have liquidated other pensions by which the amount of their pension exceeds 85% of the SMIC. I don't want to point a finger at anyone; I am just saying that the objective – because I have read Mr Chassaigne's bill – is to take a measure of social justice, in this case to raise to 85% of the SMIC the pensions of farmers who, having liquidated their pensions, would receive less than that amount. That is what a measure of social justice is! It is not a question of increasing the retirement of people who already receive this amount by more than 85% of the SMIC...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u271	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u272	...but to ensure that all reach this threshold. It was the same philosophy that inspired the guarantee mentioned by Mr Potier. We are faithful to the line always defended in this House, regardless of the historical facts that both have in mind. Let's stay consistent! We should live a moment of concord. We collectively want to do things right, for example by avoiding having to correct 10% of wrong files – without subjecting ourselves to excessive technical requirements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u273	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u274	Once the scheme has been established in connection with the farm managers, we want to announce to them that they will receive an average of 110 euros of pension: that is why we are fighting! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I note that we all share this desire to fight innovatively against social inequality. Let's do it! If we can, Mrs Chapelier, do so earlier – this is the subject of the sub-amendment tabled by Mr Damaisin and by a large majority of Members – then we will do so earlier! But let us be explicit and transparent, and let us say the reality to the farmers to whom we promise that they will receive a pension equivalent to 85% of the SMIC in the event of a full career.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u275	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u276	Under Rule 62: "The vote of the Members shall be personal. The bill is good and should have brought us all together. However, you are going to sweeten it by adopting a government amendment to defer the application of the provision and reduce its scope by means of a capping measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u277	How is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u278	In normal times, ladies and gentlemen, the political groups would have demanded an electronic vote and everything would have been simpler: each Member's vote would have been made public.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u279	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u280	But we're not in normal time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u281	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the contrary, we shall proceed to an anonymous vote! This is very good for the majority because your names will not appear, ladies and gentlemen! You can vote for a regression without revealing your names! Democracy is about saying what we are voting for! Everyone needs to know what everyone is voting for!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u282	You should assume that you have never voted for this measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u283	You've been a member of Parliament for twenty years, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u284	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any case, we will not vote in favour of provisions that soften the text and which refer to the day after tomorrow what can be done right away! I'm just saying the reality, colleagues; Answer me if you wish! In any event, the exceptional regulations that still apply today will have the effect of anonymizing your vote and, at the same time, causing your irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u285	I ask for the floor, Madam President...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u286	For a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u287	I just wanted to say...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u288	No, you can only intervene as a point of order. We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u289	It's a movie! You're demeaning politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u290	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u291	Take the picture!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u292	We're taking over! There's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u293	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u294	Article 1e (a) is important since it requires the Government, prior to the consideration of draft laws on the financing of social security, to submit to Parliament a comprehensive report on the development and financing of agricultural pensions, including a projection of the calculation of the revalorisation of the indexation chosen. We will have to be vigilant and ensure that future funding does not go back in part to the assets, as was the case – should we remind ourselves? – at the revalorisation of the retirements of heads of operations to 75% of the SMIC. Another more recent example: in its report on Agricultural Social Mutuality, the MSA, the Court of Auditors has recognised that the accumulated debt for the financing of farmers' pensions should be borne by the social debt amortisation fund – CADES – because farmers, let us recall, pay the CRDS like all beneficiaries. Last Monday, the majority had no scruples in transferring €136 billion of debt to CADES without the corresponding resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u295	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u296	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I, in turn, thank Mr. Chassaigne for introducing this bill and sincerely congratulate him for his pugnacity, which has finally been recognized. We had been waiting for this opportunity for too long; For too long, farmers had hoped for some social justice and recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u298	I am pleased that we are on all the benches of the Assembly – to a few nuances, alas – around a common goal: to bring the minimum of small agricultural pensions to 85% of the SMIC. While the average retirement of the French is around 1,800 euros, farmers' pensions are painfully 730 euros in the event of a full career. This is less than the poverty line, less than the minimum old age. [[MM. Thierry Benoit and Guillaume Larrivé applaud]] That is why I will vote in favour of this bill – although I regret the adoption of the government amendment – because I had already voted in 2017 in favour of the same proposal, in its original version. I, too, hope that this text will apply from 1 January 2021 and without crumbling. It is a question of dignity; It is our responsibility to restore hope to this profession, which has already been so mistreated, when the country owes so much to it, in particular because it ensures its independence and food security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u299	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u300	There can be no justification for a farm manager to receive a pension well below the poverty line and the minimum old age. In my department of Haute-Loire, gross agricultural retirement amounts on average to 730 euros for men and 500 euros for women. Many can no longer pay for admission to EHPAD when they need it. How, in a country like France, can such injustice be tolerated? This problem is old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u301	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u302	Farmers feed France and are actors in rural areas – and in land use planning as a whole. They work hard and cost very little to public finances. If the bill had been passed as it stood, it would have been, although only a first step, a major step forward. Article 3 extends the advance of the text to overseas farmers, which was necessary. An amendment by the Government aims to ensure that ultramarine farmers benefit from the pension guarantee of 85 per cent of the SMIC, in line with that applicable in metropolitan France. This measure of social justice will, like the whole text, in the right direction, provided that it does not detricate the essentials of it. It is a great pity that the entry into force is delayed by one year. Amendment No 19 of the Government proposes to postpone the application of the scheme until 1 January 2022, which is a nonsense, because farmers in metropolitan France and overseas have been waiting for this advance for three years. The decency and dignity of retired farmers is vital: let us not wait any longer to vote for these measures and implement them by 2021, which you have refused. Let us not forget that we must go much further and extend the scope of the text to co-workers and family workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u303	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 19, which is the subject of three sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u304	In the same spirit as that of the part of Article 1e r which President Chassaigne supports rewriting, we propose a new wording of Article 3 in order to ensure its legal soundness and consistency with the Article 1 which you have adopted. Mrs Valentin, thank you for pointing out that Article 3 was a significant social step forward for all ultramarine farmers: you are right. It is true that the law, as it stands, does not effectively address the question of the standard of living of many ultramarine agricultural pensioners, which is affected, inter alia, by their short membership in the pension scheme. That is why the amendment that I am proposing to adopt extends to the DOM the scheme voted in Article 1, but with a more flexible application: the condition of membership as a farmer of 17 and a half years will not apply and the period of membership will be increased to increase the amount of the guarantee granted. On the other hand, all agricultural pensioners who have liquidated their full pension will of course benefit from the guarantee, regardless of their insurance period. For farmers whose careers are not complete, the same logic must dominate, both in the overseas territories and throughout the country, even though President Chassaigne said that much remained to be done with regard to ASPA and that the use of successions, despite the increase in the recovery threshold to 100,000 euros in the overseas territories, did not seem to yield the expected results. We will look very carefully at the proposals that Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois will make in this area. I propose that you vote on the amendment; on the other legitimate concerns raised in and outside the agricultural sector about small pensions await the outcome of the work of the two Members whom I have assigned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u305	The rapporteur, Mr André Chassaigne, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u306	The Government's amendment, as in article 1, significantly improves the drafting of the article. I am in favour of adopting it, because both aspects are in the right direction. I have tabled two drafting sub-amendments. The point of your amendment, Mr Secretary of State, is that it reinforces our desire to remove the condition of membership of seventeen and a half years in order to benefit from the pension guarantee of 85% of the SMIC. Indeed, as you said, this condition is very difficult to fulfil overseas. In addition, the amendment extends the benefit of the pension guarantee beyond the sole criterion of the duration of insurance. Farmers who are disabled, disabled or unfit, or who have reached the age of sixty-seven, will be eligible for the guarantee. I am very much in favour of these two advances. In my first sub-amendment, No 41, I propose to add the word "also" to the fourth paragraph, which would therefore read: "Article L. 732-63 also applies to insured persons who justify entitlement to a full-rate pension under the basic old-age insurance scheme for self-employed persons in the agricultural professions". The second sub-amendment, No 51, is intended to delete, in the last paragraph of the amendment, the reference to a derogation that does not exist, in order to ensure the intelligibility of the device and its consistency with Article 1. I propose these two sub-amendments in my personal capacity and give an opinion in favour of the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u307	Mrs Isabelle Valentin's sub-amendment No 44 is being defended. Subamendment No 51 by Mr André Chassaigne, rapporteur, was defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u308	We are all in favour of trying to improve the quality of the text, as you pointed out, Mr. President Chassaigne, on the two government amendments improving the legal quality of the drafting. I have a favourable opinion on your two sub-amendments. On the other hand, I am against sub-amendment No 44, which takes up the subject we have discussed and aims to bring the scheme into force in 2021, not in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u309	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u310	Dear André Chassaigne, the epilogue of this bill is approaching. Thierry Benoit said just now that it needed courage and self-denial: in a few minutes we will vote on this bill, the result of a marathon that you started over three years ago. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I regret that the text was partly decapitated with the cap which you have put in place. Let us think of these men and women, who exercise this extraordinary profession with tremendous dignity, and who were among the soldiers of the front line, of which the President of the Republic spoke. They fed us without interruption during confinement. [[Mrs Caroline Fiat and Messrs. Thierry Benoit, Jean Lassalle and Hubert Wulfranc applaud]] You're going to tell me that it's 400 million euros: it's true! Air France receives a loan of 8 billion euros, while 10,000 jobs will be eliminated. Let us not forget what agriculture is doing! There are times when solidarity must be expressed as a sign of recognition. The text, as amended, does not accept this recognition. The period after the covid-19 offered us the opportunity – I say it before Nicolas Turquois, whose commitment to agriculture everyone knows – to send a beautiful signal and to give a beautiful recognition, like the one we owe to the whole caring community, which has been exemplary. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups, as well as on a few benches of the GDR group]] Sometimes governments need to hear the just causes that parliamentarians are defending. Bravo, André Chassaigne, for defending this bill with courage and determination! Those who look at us will not forget what happened today. After the third anniversary of our election to the National Assembly, try to provide a worthy response to the difficulties of farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u311	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u312	Arnaud Viala will speak perfectly about the text, which we will vote for because President Chassaigne's bill is good. We regret that the majority have sweetened it, by rejecting its entry into force to 2022 – let us not send back the next day what we can do immediately! -...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u313	It's been a long time since you should have done it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u314	... and excluding 100,000 people from this advantage. A small farmer, located less than 1 km from my home, has also been, throughout his life, employed by a bus company. In the morning, after the trafficking, he took the children from their homes to college; In the evening, before the milking, he took them home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u315	That's a good example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u316	Since he has a small employee's pension, he will not be able to benefit from the scheme provided for in the text. I could also give the example of small farmers who go to their colleagues to ensure the quality of dairy control, which is essential for farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u317	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u318	They too have a small employee's pension under the general scheme, so that they will not benefit from the advance that we are going to vote today either. These very concrete examples concern people who, alas, are forgotten in the text. They are 100,000, and we will fight, in the months that remain before the end of the legislature, to make them benefit from the operative provisions of this bill. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We must also take into account many other categories, which do not fall within the scope of the text – and I am not against anyone. I am thinking in particular of women: it takes seventeen and a half years to run a farm to benefit from the guarantee; However, for a long time they have been affiliated with the cooperative spouse of the head of the farm, they often take the lead only at the end of their careers and thus do not fulfil the condition of duration. This is a difficulty which the text resolves only for the overseas territories. It's very good, but why don't you do it in the metropolis too? Let us remove the categories of farm manager, spouse and family helper to focus on human realities. We still have a lot of work to do, even if this text represents progress and any progress, even if it could have been greater, is good to take!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u319	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u320	It removes the pledge of the bill to allow discussion on financing in the Chamber. Several Members have said that national representation gives a good proof of confidence to the agricultural population: here too, it will be the national solidarity that will benefit those who provide daily food for our citizens and the preservation and daily management of the environment, with a pension equal to at least 85% of the SMIC, from 1 January at the latest. We can all agree with this progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u322	Of course, I have a favourable opinion. Without the Government's willingness to secure the financing of the scheme through solidarity and the national budget, we would not have achieved that result. The 2017 vote had been unanimous, but there were reservations, which had not been expressed, about financing: we had planned to increase the rate of the tax on financial transactions from 0.3% to 0.4%. This was easy because the tax existed and the base was not changed: the increase in the rate of 0.1% was to bring in 500 million euros, which financed the increase in agricultural pensions. I would like to commend the Government for its action. [[MM. Erwan Balanant and Guillaume Larrivé applaud]] I will have the opportunity to say a few more words if the President gives me the floor again after the vote on the whole text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u323	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u324	I am sure no one will be surprised by the announcement that the Members of the GDR Group will vote for this bill by Mr Chassaigne, a proposal which he has long held in his arms and in whose defence he has been fully involved. I would like to stress his commitment, but also that of Huguette Bello, on this issue that is so important to the rural world. I am pleased that we have been able to overcome the traditional political divisions despite many pitfalls throughout the legislative process of the text – and again this morning, with the capping and postponement of the application of the system to 2022. We will not only vote for it because it is a bill by André Chassaigne, but because it was necessary and so much expected by retired farmers. The effort will have to be continued because 85% of the SMIC is not the panacea either – but it is a start that we take note of. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, LR, LT and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] It is only justice and I know how much, for example, the pensioners of the Allier, my department, will welcome the unanimous vote which will close this story which has lasted too long: they had even planned to come in the coach to support this text which we had to discuss initially in April. The events have decided otherwise. But from here I want to greet them: they have fought for their rights to be recognized for a long time – they who have worked so hard: I think of Arlette, Yvette, Jeannot, Dédé, Jacky, Jean-Claude who have all come to see me so many times. We did it. Thank you again, Mr Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u325	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u326	Three years ago, day by day, I was elected as a Member of Parliament in an agricultural riding. As a farmer, I am proud of this trans-party bill, which I called Chassaigne-Damaisin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u327	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u328	It's recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u329	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is a small step for the peasant, but a leap for agricultural history, at least a first leap since it is the beginning of a rapid march towards equity, towards social progress in the agricultural world. I am proud that the La République group is voting for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u330	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u331	Members of the LR Group will obviously vote for this bill, even if the debate we have just had leaves us with a sense of dissatisfaction: we would have really wanted you to hear our message that it was not just a mathematical regularisation, but a real gesture of gratitude to the farmers of France – their pensioners –, a socio-professional category that, at the time the health crisis ended, more than the others, showed exemplary self-denial. That is why I think we would have won to send him a much stronger signal than we are about to do. I would like to thank President Chassaigne and the Members of the GDR Group for insistently defending this bill. The constant support that we have given him since 2017 and that will not be denied any more today, goes beyond the political divisions, as was already the case in the revision of the law on the development and protection of the mountain, at which we found ourselves. These are very important subjects which concern the territories and the French who live there and which make them live. This unit, which goes from one side of the Chamber to the other, must be admitted, spanning the majority somewhat,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u332	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u333	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the GDR group]] ... should give us an indication of what to do in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u334	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] I am personally sensitive to your reminder of the mountain law that I was co-rapporteur with a Member of the majority, which I believe has never happened before. Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u335	The MODEM and related groups will of course vote for the text which enshrines the transition from farmers' retirement to at least 75% to 85% of SMIC. We would like to welcome this major step forward. I regret that we have not taken enough account of the importance of the complexity of the current system...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u336	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u337	...and I invite everyone to rub themselves in administrative mechanics. Agricultural pension is the individual old-age insurance, the AVI, the agricultural old-age insurance, the AVA, the RCO. Moving from 75% to 85% of SMIC is not a simple thing. It was rightly said that farmers were on the front line. However, many of the traders in our villages and small towns have also found themselves on the front line...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u338	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u339	... because they remained open; But they will not benefit from the mechanism that we are going to vote on because it is complicated to apply. I therefore invite you to reflect on how to extend it to categories other than farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u340	You're the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u341	In my view, we will achieve this by simplifying the system. It was our will at the beginning of spring. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In any case, thank you, Mr Chassaigne, for this bill. I would also like to thank Olivier Damaisin, Géraldine Bannier and Jean-Pierre Cubertafon for their investment, who pushed us – I understand – to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u342	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u343	I thank our colleague and friend André Chassaigne...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u344	The best of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u345	... for his perseverance, because for years I have been able to measure the sincerity of his commitment to Germinal Peiro, in particular, who has not spared his pain either. It was recalled that it was always the left who made progress on agricultural pensions, first in 2000 with Lionel Jospin, in 2013 with Marisol Touraine and today, therefore, with André Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u346	And the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u347	Without us, however, the text would not pass; But it doesn't matter: for you, we don't exist...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u348	I would also point out that, under the previous quinquennium, it is – listen carefully to this figure – 900 million euros a year that have been spent on the reclamation of agricultural pensions. For those who doubt it, I refer to the Official Journal of 2 December 2016, page 18474: some 670000 retired operators were concerned. This is, you said, Secretary of State, a question of social justice. You're absolutely right. Therefore, why did we wait three years before we came together to consider this bill? Worse, why do you want to delay its application to 2022, when the original text provided for 2021? To remove the solidarity tax on wealth, to introduce the single flat-rate levy, it took you only a few months... Why exclude 90,000 farmers on the pretext that they are multi-pensioned? You have much less scruples with the cumulation of employment-retirement of some high office. Secondly, this text cannot be an account balance text because the spouses of the heads of the farm, the family helpers are still forgotten. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] But I want to finish on a positive note: the Socialist and related group will vote for this text, because it represents a little better – indeed, our farmers, their spouses, the family workers deserve better, much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u349	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u350	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Members of the UDI-I Group will naturally vote for this bill, which will probably be called the Chassaigne law for posterity, but it does not disappoint those who want to distort the name of the text. I once again salute André Chassaigne's work. I'll go back to what's been a debate, starting with the clipping...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u351	Without our voices, there would be no Bill Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u352	Wait until the end of my speech, before you get angry, dear colleague, and you will see if you find your account there. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] I am terribly embarrassed, Mr. Secretary of State, when we talk about small pensions, that we have been forced to deal with the capping. I am in fact embarrassed when, with regard to personalities named – I insist – who have had a good career – and I am speaking here only of public money – we do not mention the supervision, the capping of remunerations reaching from 10000 to 20,000 euros. The recent appointment of the first President of the Court of Auditors reminds us of this reality. I now come to the entry into force of the scheme planned for 2021. Mr Damaisin, you who have been a Member of Parliament for three years, I would like to pay tribute to your work and to recognize your trick... I still hope that you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Damaisin, will create the material conditions for the Chassaigne bill to apply as soon as possible. Don't let go, keep on the hard work you started, and I assure you that farmers will be delighted. [[Mr Yannick Favennec Becot applauds]] Finally, I have a thought for the territory in which I live: two farmers, Marie-Annick Méhaignerie and Jean Liger, have been asking me every year on this issue. And, personally, my older brother, if he reads the record of this debate, will see that he may be a beneficiary of the Chassaigne law, which is my pleasure for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u353	[[Smile]] There's a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u354	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u355	[[Mr. Jacques Cattin applauds]] Unsurprisingly, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for the text. It remains, Mr. Secretary of State, that you cannot agree with your assertion that you have not diverted the meaning of André Chassaigne's bill. In fact, in your demonstration, you forget that farmers paid contributions. However, as soon as you introduce the cap, the replacement income becomes almost a social assistance benefit. It is in this sense that you are creating, I repeat, an ASPA bis, without succession recovery and of a slightly lower amount. Also, Mr Turquois, I do not give fifteen days until other professional categories – traders and artisans – get into the niche to benefit from the same scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u356	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u357	I therefore encourage you to review the APA, increase it to 85% of the SMIC and eliminate the succession remedy. We would thus cover a much wider field of people who have only small pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u358	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u359	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] I take note, Mr. Secretary of State, of the fact that you raised the pledge. So we can move forward, even though there are many people left on the edge of the road with small retreats.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u360	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u361	We regret that it is not the proposal of our colleague André Chassaigne that is put to the vote. The majority amendments significantly weakened the scope of the original text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u362	Small detail: we finance the device!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u363	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u364	However, slight progress has been made in favour of farmers and the La France insoumise group will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u365	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u366	I also thank President Chassaigne for his perseverance and without which we would never have led to this bill. Let us give back to Caesar what is Caesar's. Of course, the EDS Group will vote for the text with a few regrets, in particular that the scope of the scheme has been reduced with the capping which further reduces the number of beneficiaries. For all the others, a long work is still before us – I thank Mrs Dubie for mentioning it. It is through the ASPA that we will be able to truly change the lives of farm pensioners. A strong incomprehension remains: on the benches of this assembly, we should all struggle to innovate and ensure true social justice. As you said, Secretary of State, the farmers are forcing us. Yet we are holding back to reward them for their merits. Once again, we just missed an opportunity. We will vote on the bill with a little more hope than yesterday, because we have made little progress, certainly very little, too little. But as peasant common sense makes it say, that's always what it takes. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups]] I conclude by a very French proverb which says all the value of this one: "A peasant with his plow is worth a thousand times better than a noble man on the street. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u367	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u368	Guaranteeing a more dignified minimum pension aims, on the one hand, at correcting an injustice – we all understand it – and, on the other hand, I repeat, at marking our commitment to this noble profession. It is also a good expression of national solidarity in view of the funding proposed by the Secretary of State. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the bill, the effect of which will be felt by 2021, as we understand it. I can count on our colleague Olivier Damaisin to be the guarantor and President Chassaigne to be the critic, if any. However, we still have a long way to go. I am thinking of the status of the collaborating spouse, but also of securing agricultural land. Not long ago, I was talking about detached agriculture. In the face of foreign owners who come to seize our land, with the necessary staff and adequate seeds, we must be vigilant. We must also continue to work to ensure decent agricultural incomes, which would have a direct effect on the level of pensions and perhaps exempt us from national solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and IDU-I groups]] Finally, my dear President Chassaigne, I will quote another proverb from auvergnat, because the one you proposed earlier left me a little bit hungry. You surely know him: "Years are more old than wise. It is your wisdom and that of our assembly that triumph today to support the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u369	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u370	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u371	Chassaigne, president!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u372	While the bill is important, it is not a Napoleonic epic. Let us remain humble in everything we do. A bill does not belong to a political group or to its first signatory, it belongs to the nation. So I don't own it, which makes me think it's pointless to want to squat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u373	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u374	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is a collective act, I wanted to say. MPs of all sensitivities, in particular – it should be stressed – MPs of the presidential majority, have participated in what I call a collective work. It is undoubtedly this approach that has enabled the unanimous vote that we have just witnessed. If I sometimes have the hard tooth, it is not against individuals but against an amendment that I consider hypocritical or circumstance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u375	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u376	That's my frankness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u377	It's the earth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u378	I hope that the text will come to an end in its legislative process. I know that the bill is on the agenda of the Senate Committee on Social Affairs next week and that it must be adopted before the end of June. Its implementation is therefore assured. I would like to thank all of you for this collective work, I repeat, in the general interest. I am sure that each of you has in mind – some have referred to it – the faces of relatives, neighbours. I live in a hamlet of four houses near a village of 500 inhabitants. I think immediately of Riri, Marcel, Pierre, René, but also, because they will benefit indirectly, the widows who are numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u379	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u380	[[Applause on all benches]] I'm thinking about my neighbor Paulette and Odette. This bill is not ours, it is theirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u381	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u382	Mr Chassaigne, you rightly spoke of a collective work to qualify the work refined this morning but engaged more than three years ago. On 13 April, at the heart of the health crisis, the President of the Republic invited us to remember that our country has held on to the whole, thanks to women and men whom our societies recognize little and our economies sometimes paid so badly. He recalled that "social distinctions can only be based on common utility". Ladies and gentlemen, you have just taken over the torch today by concretizing and giving full force to this principle. As you have said, Mr Chassaigne and on all benches too, despite the questions expressed by some, I have heard the confidence given by Thierry Benoit and the willingness of both to find, as soon as possible, solutions consistent with the constraints linked to the complexity of our current pension system, which Nicolas Turquois mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC, GDR, LT and IUD-I groups]] On behalf of the Government, I would like to stress today that our united nation, through your presence and unanimous vote, is capable of great progress in the field of social justice when we take the time to reflect together, listen to us and then vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u383	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Alain Bruneel, Pierre Dharréville and several of their colleagues in favour of a law of programming for the public hospital and residential institutions for dependent elderly people (No. 3004, 3073).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u384	Mr Alain Bruneel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u385	Caregivers are exhausted, out of breath, they no longer want to be content with applause, they no longer want rhetorical or technocratic formulas, they no longer want promises, they expect us to act. That's what I'm offering you today. Regrettably, the rules laid down in article 40 of our Constitution prevent MPs from directly proposing a law that would substantially increase salaries and staff in public hospitals and in EHPADs. However, this is what we obviously expect of the Government in the future programming law that we are submitting to you. Our proposals do not date from today. This is neither opportunism nor a simple response to the current situation. In 2018, parliamentarians of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left made a tour of France of hospitals and EHPADs. As a reminder, we visited 160 establishments in metropolitan France but also overseas. From this tour of France, we have drawn numerous measures, co-written with hospital staff and mostly transcribed in a bill. The legitimate anger is expressed, establishment by establishment, but also in demonstrations and rallies. Regrettably, the screams of anger and alerting have still not been heard. In 2018, we asked for an interview with the President of the Republic to present him with measures that were already more than urgent at that time. Unfortunately, this request remained a dead letter. Today, almost two years later, a pandemic has sadly come to remind us, once again, of what we owe to our hospitals, to our EHPADs and to them who work there. It must be noted that the same President of the Republic, who did not wish to receive us two years ago, announced, in his speech last Sunday, a revival for health, which aims not only to raise the remuneration of healthcare workers, but also to transform the hospital as city medicine through new investments and a more effective and preventive organization. But, concretely, what should we understand? What investments and when, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health? Contrary to what you may be afraid of, the bill is in no way part of an opposition approach to the Segur of Health. We do not need new round tables, new meetings, new consultations; Innumerable relationships exist, they follow each other, they resemble each other, and often end their lives in cabinets. The finding is known and well-known. We know what health professionals want, we know what the unions want – they have been repeating it for more than two years. It is no longer time to submit an umpteenth ministerial report or to set up an umpteenth working group to build the next day; The time has come for a clear political will and concrete action for the hospital. The bill allows for a longer-term vision of the general operation of public hospitals and EHPADs to be included in the marble of the law. Listen to us, we could all take a first step together to remedy the situation that we have all known for far too long. No one today can afford another missed opportunity. The bill would transform into concrete action all the compassion expressed by your majority towards caregivers. Why do we ask for a programming law? Because we are convinced that we need a strong commitment to public hospitals and EHPADs; because we are convinced that they are asking for visibility and can no longer live every year in the anxious expectation of the next year's budget cuts. Our parliamentary life is now punctuated by the adoption of public finance programming laws, military programming laws and, more marginally, programming laws for justice or research. Health, which appeared even before the health crisis, as the absolute priority of the French, must obviously also benefit from long-term planning. Health must be the subject of a genuine debate. The national strategy to be adopted must be highlighted, not only in the draft law on the financing of social security but in the much longer term. In the latest law on the financing of social security, the Government committed itself to greater pluriannuality through the signing of a protocol with institutions. This is a good thing, but it is only a matter of tariffs and budgets. We propose to reason in health care first and then adjust the budget. In fact, too often for twenty-five years, we have wondered what to do with the public hospital on the basis of budgetary targets. We propose to reverse the logic by answering the question: what budget for the public hospital to achieve our health objectives? That is why we are proposing that this programming bill be passed before the Social Security Financing Bill is introduced for 2021. We have strong political choices to make in the coming months, even before determining the budgetary framework that will accompany them, not the other way around. In his last speech, the President of the Republic estimated the state's financial commitments related to the covid-19 crisis at EUR 500 billion. However, we still do not know how ready the President is to put on the table to give back a breath of oxygen to public hospitals and EHPADs. Once again, heroes and geniuses will have to wait. I have heard the comments made by my colleagues during the examination of the bill in the Committee on Social Affairs. We attach the same importance to city medicine as you do. We know that private institutions also play an important role in the care of our citizens in some territories. But we do not claim to solve, with this text, the problems of our health system in an exhaustive way. This is a first step, a first stone to the building. During this review in committee last Wednesday, you expressed your legitimate thoughts on governance, prevention, and other aspects. It would have been interesting for you to make these amendments. In any event, I do not share the view of some parliamentarians, and I believe that tomorrow's priority, the absolute urgency, is the public hospital. It is indeed the answer to many ills, as well as the immediate refuge for our fellow citizens when they do not have a response from city medicine. However, working conditions deteriorate a little and more every day, as does the quality of care provided as a result of ricochet effects. We all know that caregivers work under increasingly difficult conditions. In the absence of financial and human resources, they are wasting time getting good equipment or a bed for a patient to be hospitalized. They are fighting against obsolete computer tools or medical software that is not the same from one hospital to another. Timer in hand, caregivers have less and less time to talk to patients, to comfort them, to reassure them, and they sometimes find it difficult to perform the required care. All hold the same discourse and often feel that their work no longer makes sense. As part of the French tour of hospitals, I have heard, like my colleagues, many nurses say, "This is no longer my core job. I learned the protocol of benevolence and now I'm in abuse. » By 2018, in their report on EHPADs, Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat proposed to make a minimum standard of supervision of sixty full-time equivalents per cent resident within four years, which would double the management rate. This proposal is obviously very interesting and we believe that it should be included in a future programming law alongside a similar ratio for public hospitals. Minister, is there a change in the rate of supervision on the menu of the Ségur de la santé, and if so, at what level do you propose to set it? France is one of the OECD countries that pays its nurses the worst in hospital compared to the average wage, and only ahead of Finland, Hungary and Latvia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u386	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u387	In the case of older occupations, the situation is even worse: several collective agreements in the social sector provide for basic wages lower than the SMIC at the first level of employment. Our territories and hospitals are dying from the closures of beds and maternity homes that are distressing our fellow citizens. Geographical inequalities in health continue to widen and at the same time we are witnessing a breakdown in equal access to health care. I would like us to have a very frank discussion on this single-section bill; It depends on each and every one of us. This duty and responsibility are incumbent upon us. (Applause from the GDR Group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat and Mrs Monique Iborra also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u388	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1240.u389	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed programming law for the public hospital and EHPADs. Discussion of the motion for a resolution inviting the Government to set up a student income. Discussion of the bill in favour of the contribution of high incomes and high wealth to the national solidarity effort. Discussion of the proposal for a law on the introduction of a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy. Discussion of the motion for a resolution to make access to masks free of charge. The meeting is adjourned.
