ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u1	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u2	The meeting was resumed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and EDS groups]] Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, before you arrived, I had to suspend the sitting because of the lack of a representative of the special committee to examine the bioethics bill. Whether it is the President or the rapporteurs, I should be grateful if you would remind your colleagues of their obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u3	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2658, 3181). This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u4	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u5	It is based on Rule 50 of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure concerning the hours of the public meeting. Today is the first day of the review of the bioethics bill and we were supposed to resume our work at twenty-one and thirty. However, the members of the special commission are absent, with the exception of Mr Touraine, the only one to be on time – within five minutes... [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and EDS groups]] Bioethics is a serious subject. The minimum respect for our assembly requires that we be on time to continue our work. Not to be so is not to take seriously the subjects we are considering or national representation. This situation is probably due to the evening organised at this very moment in Paris for the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u6	And we're not there?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u7	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...– Evening you may not be invited to, colleagues! – but it is deplorable that no member of the committee is present in the Chamber to hear the speakers in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u8	I myself have spoken on the subject: things are clear and this situation will not happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u9	It shows all the interest we have in bioethics in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u10	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u11	It is also based on Article 50 and concerns the proper holding of our debates. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In their speeches this afternoon, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Keeper of Seals and the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation all wanted our debates to take place in good conditions and without insults. How do you want this to happen if, from the second session devoted to bioethics, we start with five minutes late and if the rapporteurs and the Members of the majority are absent?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u12	Where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u13	It is mocking the Members who have made the effort to be on time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u14	I ask for the floor for a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to make eighteen points of order over five minutes late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u16	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u18	You know that I have the opportunity to limit the point of order to one per group. That is not my intention, but I urge you not to overinterpret the delay with which we are opening this meeting. Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, before you arrived, I made it clear that the representatives of the Committee were obliged to suspend the sitting as soon as it opened. It would be foolish, however, to lose a quarter of an hour to discuss five minutes late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u19	They weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u20	Although things have been made clear, I consent to give the floor again to a Member of a group that has not spoken. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – MM. Charles de Courson and Pascal Brindeau also applaud]] The members of the opposition are present tonight, disciplined, but they are denied a sitting suspension because of delay. I find it shocking! By acting as it does on a text that concerns us all, the majority usurp its rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u22	Mr Chenu has the floor for a further point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u23	Your majority, Mr President, wanted this text to be included in the agenda: it was an urgent, urgent and necessary text. Was it wise to examine it in this summer? The question may be asked, but you have decided so. Non-attached Members may not request a suspension of the sitting. They are on time in the Chamber to work on this text which you consider fundamental. So, where are the deputies of the majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u24	To the cocktail!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u25	We all know, actually... This attitude towards a text that they themselves wanted to put on the agenda is very light, very casual. The members of the opposition, from all groups, were on time in the Chamber, while at this very moment, somewhere in Paris, the majority members of the House are gobbling. Their idleness says a lot about what they think of the bill: it's just an artifact to save parliamentary time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u26	Macron doesn't respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u27	It's amateurism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u28	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor for a final point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u29	[[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is also based on Article 50 of the Regulation. I understand, Mr President, that you do not want us to discuss this five-minute delay for fifteen minutes, but, in any case, we cannot discuss it: the normal functioning of our House is blocked because the majority is abusing its majority. His absence blocks the process! This is not the first time. I recall that the Prime Minister did not say a word about this text and that we received no response when we asked the Government about its position. This goes further: tonight, no Member of Parliament from the majority is present to discuss a text that upsets bioethics. And we're only at the beginning of the week, Mr. President! How are we going to finish it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u30	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] It's all been said. We have just devoted ten minutes to a five-minute delay. I now propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we resume the course of our debates, especially since a Member of the majority, who has been included in the general debate, is waiting to be able to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u31	They're not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u32	That's contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u33	Waiting for Godot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u34	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u35	She's walking alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u36	Where's the majority? It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u37	They're dancing in a houseboat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u38	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u39	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] For the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, the second reading of the bioethics bill is an opportunity to reaffirm its support for the commitment of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u40	She's talking on her own!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u41	... to open up the LDC, medically assisted reproduction, to all heterosexual couples, women's couples and unmarried women. The refusal to introduce a filtering mechanism that would restrict access to it is, in our view, the condition of equality before the law that we would like to see included in this text. From this point of view, the examination of the latter in committee allowed it to be placed in the line adopted by the Assembly at first reading. It was also our responsibility to restore full health insurance coverage for the constituent acts of the AGP – reproductive medical assistance – which was removed by the Senate. Similarly, we wanted to eliminate the psychological and social dimension of the pre-AGP assessment, as it would have been a stigma that was not appropriate. With respect to section 2, which provides for the relaxation of gamete donation and self-conservation, we believe that the version that the commission has achieved is balanced and that it has allowed us to take into account the debates that have taken place in our assembly and in the Senate on private health facilities of collective interest and on the collection of consent for the authorization to collect gametes. Our Assembly had also voted, at first reading, on provisions to combat the causes of infertility. These provisions have been removed by the Senate and we are pleased to see that their reintroduction into the bill has been the subject of a broad vote in this chamber. Our discussions at first reading had shown the importance of this issue and the inadequacy of the measures taken to this end in our country. In our mind, this plan would include both research effort and specific training of health professionals and information and communication to the general public, especially young people. Access to origins, a complex issue, has also occupied a large part of our discussions. In this area, we can welcome the significant development of the text since the beginning of its consideration; its current version gives important guarantees to persons born of an MPA by allowing them access to certain non-identifiable data as well as to the identity of the donor. We measure what this possibility implies on the part of the donor; This is why a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign will have to be conducted to avoid a temporary collapse of donations. Many amendments have also clarified and regulated this practice; These include consent at the time of donation and the involvement of the CECOS physician, the centre for the study and conservation of eggs and semen. The establishment of the filiation of children born from the use of an MPA with third-party donors within a couple of women has again been the subject of lengthy discussions; Everyone remembers the many developments in the text before the last proposal made by the rapporteur Coralie Dubost in a special committee. In this regard, we thank the Ministry, which, thanks to the listening qualities of the former seal guard, Nicole Belloubet, has been able, in close connection with the rapporteur and all parliamentarians, to find an editorial that guarantees the principles of our Republic while providing maximum security to the unborn children. Let us recall some of the developments obtained in this field: the establishment of filiation towards the woman who gave birth, and by joint recognition for the woman who did not give birth; revocation before a notary of consent to the AGP; consideration of the case of women's couples who used an MPA abroad before the law came into force. We also note with satisfaction that, with regard to pregnancy for others – GPA – the solution found, based on adoption, is based on the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation validated by the European Court of Human Rights. This decision is unambiguous as to the recognition of the GPA, to which my group is firmly opposed. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] As far as the title first is concerned, two subjects still seem to have to be deepened and debated: the directed donation of gametes and matching. The possibilities brought about by the votes in the special committee on these issues seem to deviate from a consensus which we wish to see as broad as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds, as does Mrs Aina Kuric]] The text contains important societal advances that correspond to commitments made by our majority before the French in 2017. They are expected and hoped for by many of our fellow citizens; It is our duty to make them possible from now on. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is committed to doing so with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u42	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a point of order – still on the same subject, Mr Brindeau?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u43	Yes, since the deputies of the majority are still not there! Did you text them, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u44	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] I ask for a suspension of the sitting on the basis of Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure, so that the majority can return to the Chamber. The fact that only two or three deputies of the majority were present at the general debate was disrespectful to Parliament as to the Secretary of State who sat on the bench of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u45	The suspension is on its own right. For how long, Mr. Brindeau? It's up to you to say, since you're asking for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u46	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u47	I would remind you that the duration of the suspension is deducted from the speaking time of your group, since the examination of the text is subject to the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u48	I know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u49	So you want to take 15 minutes of your speaking time for a suspension?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let's say ten minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u51	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u52	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u53	Once again having received a request for a point of order, I would remind you of the rule on the matter: if the point of order lasts more than two minutes, its duration is deducted from the speaking time of the group concerned – I would like to point out this, because it seemed to me that there was a vagueness about the implementation of the scheduled legislative time; and if the points of order are repetitive, I will inform you, as this also leads to the attribution of their duration to the speaking time of the group. For these reasons, I ask you not to abuse the point of order. I accept one more; If there is another one on the same subject, I will be forced to charge the duration of it to the time of the group. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will be very brief because, in this case, it would be rather the absence of our colleagues that would be repetitive. Some spoke of this text, earlier, as a law of progress, or even a law of love. However, if we were to take such an important step, the ranks of the majority should be crowded. However, the re-slaughter of the troops seems to be laborious, which marks your contempt for our colleagues who will speak to express their opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u56	Divorce already!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, make sure that the debates are held in the best possible conditions. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u58	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u59	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u60	The opposition listens to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u61	At least we're here to listen to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u62	[[Smile]] However, it is not said that you are being applauded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u63	[[Applause on the SOC, LR, FI and GDR benches]] [[Exclaims on several banks in the LR group at the entry of Gilles Le Gendre into the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, since those of the majority are rare, not being a member of the special commission to examine the bioethics bill, but appointed ex officio, it is only as a spokesperson for the Socialist and related group that I speak before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, out of respect for the speaker, please listen to Mrs Untermaier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u65	The honourable senators, having changed to the spirit of the text – I am thinking in particular of the amendments to Title 1, which marked a sharp reduction in rights – have, at the same time, enriched the other titles of the text, which we are delighted to hear. The text, submitted long months ago to the national representation, is intended to be a text of authorizations, which are all new rights for many of our citizens and their children. They are waiting for them and certain situations, apparently inextricable until then, are in the process of being resolved. This is the case with the extension of the LDC's openness to women's couples and unmarried women, which meets a societal aspiration. The keeper of the seals reminded him today: the law comes to say in law an imperfect social reality. In doing so, it protects and guarantees the interests of the child. Similarly, the committee has adopted certain amendments to the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group, in particular the one aimed at putting an end to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation when giving blood. This transpassionate amendment, carried by the rapporteur Hervé Saulignac – present tonight – was supported by more than one hundred Members. This measure was also supported by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who wrote in July 2013 in his report on the blood industry in France that "the mistake is to limit oneself to sexuality, even though sexual behaviour may be at risk, regardless of sexual orientation elsewhere. » We also obtained guidance, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights, on the search for a donor whose characteristics are closest to the recipient couple – blood type, skin colour, hair or eyes. This practice penalizes couples receiving ethnic origin for whom donors are lacking. These advances, which the Special Commission has made with a large majority, should be included in the marble of the law at the end of the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, this text does not provide an answer in certain areas and the debate, which honours this House when Members are present, must take place. We will have to ask ourselves the question of the opening of the post-mortem LDC and the self-conservation of oocytes, which the Government wishes to authorize for medical reasons. In this case, why would only women over the age of 32 be affected? Many suffer from pathologies such as endometriosis, which manifests itself from puberty, or premature ovarian insufficiency. Here again, the Socialist Group will be able to propose to remove the last barriers that create injustice. Moreover, the Socialist and related group defends a filiation that would be the same for women's couples as for heterosexual couples. Finally, with regard to intersex, it should be borne in mind that in all cases the concept of vital urgency is satisfied by the Code of Public Health. The doctor shall provide the necessary care without the obligation to obtain the consent of the minor or the parents. The subject is therefore not so much medical necessity as the collection of consent when sexual conformation operations are envisaged. Again, my group will be able to make a proposal and lead the debate. Our debates must, to the very end, live up to the ambition of this law. We must address the most sensitive issues and respond by building on the potential of medical, scientific and technological progress, while respecting the ethical principles that drive our society and affect everyone's consciences. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] As a more personal matter, I consider that having rights does not reduce existing rights. The opening of the LDC to single women or couples does not reduce the rights of men, as I heard earlier. On the contrary, it allows to accommodate the difference and to protect the child. Let's not worry about opening up rights. On the other hand, we must fear the opposite reasoning. To fear opening up rights is to corset society. However, I do not see in this Chamber any will to destroy our fundamentals but, on the contrary, a determination to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u66	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] I had not planned to begin my speech this way: while several members of the Government and the majority have recalled the respect that must govern our debates on a subject as sensitive as bioethics, it took almost forty minutes for the majority to be represented by just over two deputies and for the normal functioning of the parliamentary institution to resume. [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] What image do we give to the citizens who look at us and misunderstand that only a few dozen Members are sitting at night to participate in the debates? We already had every difficulty in explaining the reasons for this in our constituencies: how will we do if the majority group does not respect the parliamentary institution and its work?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u68	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u69	This is a scandal, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u70	Mr Secretary of State, by forcing the National Assembly to consider the bioethics bill at second reading on 27 July and in the following days, the Government bears a heavy responsibility and commits several mistakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u71	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u72	The first is political. Today, our fellow citizens fear for their future, ignoring the evolution of the covid-19 epidemic in the coming weeks or months. This concern is shared by the public authorities, which multiply the reminders of prudence, respect for the actions of barriers and the rules of physical distancing. This issue is in all minds, not to mention the economic crisis and the social crisis that will hit our fellow citizens very hard, if not already.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u73	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u74	She's the top priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u75	Except for the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u76	In this context, the Government's priority should not have been to include in the agenda the second reading of the bioethics bill, especially since the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, himself, had made it clear that the accelerated procedure had not been chosen and that the text could be fully debated in both chambers of Parliament. And yet, the second reading is held at the National Assembly in the heart of the summer. Forgive me for repeating it, at the risk of displeasing some, but you are trying to put this text into catini. You will certainly recite yourself, and that is how our fellow citizens feel about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u78	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] What were the reasons for placing this text on the agenda of our assembly the week of July 27th? It was that you had to give the left wing of your majority, unsolved after the debacle of the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u79	We'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u80	Then you make a democratic mistake by not allowing the debate to be as thorough as possible. This text touches on the intimate, the conception that each of us has of life, of the family, of the child, of research, of the relationship between science, technology and law. That is why the freedom to vote within all groups must be total. In this case, if I speak on behalf of my group, I am also speaking in a personal capacity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In this regard, it is a pity that the Prime Minister, who was questioned during questions to the Government, does not simply give us his point of view when he arrives at the head of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u81	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u82	... and where the balance of the text was changed at first reading and after its passage to the Senate, but also following its consideration by the special commission which, three weeks ago, swept away almost all of the Senate's proposals, going so far as to adopt new measures which had not been approved by the Government at first reading. These questions cannot be summarized in a parliamentary debate held at the heart of the summer, without the Government as a whole being able or unwilling to express itself, thus preventing our citizens from being informed, in full transparency, of their intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u83	The Government was not at the hearings. They're all absent, we only have a second-class minister tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u84	Where's the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u85	Because I don't want to prolong...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u86	The torture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u87	[["At last! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...my point, I come to the bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u88	It's important, shape!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u89	The Gendre, on the microphone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u90	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You know that the shape is nothing but the bottom that goes up to the surface. In such a debate, form is as important as substance. I would just like to express my concern about the consequences of what some have called the opening of new rights. It is true that children are born, growing up and growing up in single-parent, homoparental or simply heterosexual families. This is not the point, since, regardless of the family type, you will find happy and unhappy children, with life making that sometimes adults do not respect the rights of the child and compromise his or her future. On the other hand, by opening up new rights, you are obliged to adapt and transform the law of filiation. You will tell us that the bioethics bill is not about transforming the law of filiation, but it will affect it very strongly. The complaint I make to you is that, wanting to place both mothers on an equal footing as part of a couple of women who use the AMP, you are competing with both origins of filiation. Natural or maternal filiation is based on the fact that a woman is a mother because she gave birth. The special commission, after having worked, has certainly established a form of balance since the text makes a new reference to Article 311-25 of the Civil Code. But you establish in the same paragraph of Article 4 an obligation of joint recognition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u92	... which guarantees your understanding of the equality of the two mothers while making the notions of biological mother and mother of intention clash, the first having signed the same joint recognition document as the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u94	There is a fragility here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u96	...on which I would have liked to hear the guard of the seals – it will be there when we examine Article 4. The fundamental problem is that you go so far as to challenge the biological reality that makes a child, whether you like it or not, by medical intervention or not, come from a man and a woman. The exclusion of a man from his fatherhood by law is a fact that you record in the law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u97	That's not true. No one's excluded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u98	... in order to promote all forms of parenting: you give priority to parentality of will, to desire more than to power, which, in my view, already carries the seeds of another type of parenting which can, tomorrow, be claimed by one or more persons. You will not cut off the debate on pregnancy for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u99	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] It is necessarily the "after fight": we will find the notion of meaning of history, often developed here or there, as an argument to justify what you consider today to be unjustifiable. We will be ready to debate over the course of these five days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u101	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u102	Last September, we began our work to examine the bioethics bill, aware of the immense responsibility we had as legislators. The challenge was, in fact, immense: to update our law by adapting it to scientific progress and the ever-evolving evolution of technology, as well as to the expectations and transformations of our society, while respecting our ethical principles. Because the stakes of bioethics laws are still very numerous and, in essence, delicate. They appeal to questions that are the responsibility of the intimate and the conscience of each person. They question the relationship that each of us has with life itself, as well as the place that society gives to human beings. In this sense, the revision of bioethics laws invites us to comment on the society we want. It is therefore little to say that it is a crucial meeting, which obliges us to show responsibility, certainly, but above all, humility. Each of us, and this is the case of the members of the Freedom and Territory Group, spoke at first reading in an individual and conscious way. The same will apply to this second reading. [[Charles de Courson applauds]] I am pleased, for my part, that this House can continue to examine this text, despite the extraordinary context we have experienced since the epidemic of covid-19, which has interrupted and postponed our work. Some of us believe that the inclusion of this text on the agenda of our Assembly was not a priority given the health and economic crisis: I respect this position but I do not share it, considering that we could not delay further its consideration or adoption. Indeed, almost a decade has passed since the last revision. However, we are aware of the risk that every review will adopt a text that would become obsolete too quickly, as scientific and medical techniques evolve rapidly. We have fallen behind in our consideration of this text and it is true that we resume our work in a particular and uncertain context. The covid-19 epidemic has had an impact on all parts of our society and it has most likely upset all of us, as parliamentarians, but especially as citizens. It has revealed the fragility of the human being, thus reminding us of the priority of preserving our health and, consequently, the requirement that we must have with regard to the quality of care. It also calls on us to create the conditions for effective research, which involves significant investments and requires an efficient organisation that respects the working conditions of researchers. Progress on this major aspect will be needed in the context of the future Multiannual Research Programming Act. The bill is, therefore, much more relevant than ever, since it is primarily a matter of humanity. But if the crisis of the covid-19 reminded us of one thing, it is the need to always place the human at the heart of our reflections. It is, therefore, with these heightened concerns in mind that the second reading of this text should now be considered. It was all the more necessary for us to resume our work as the examination in the Senate led to the adoption of a text that was quite different from the one that we adopted ourselves at first reading. However, for me, as for many of us here, the changes introduced went below the original ambition. I am therefore pleased that our special committee has re-established in its Assembly version the provisions on the opening up of reproductive medical assistance to all women. This is an important step forward, responding to a legitimate demand, and a fight that I personally have been leading with conviction for several years. It was essential that we should be able to return to the lack of social security coverage for all women, as well as to maintain the strict medical and pathological criteria. These two provisions introduced in the Senate did not guarantee equal access to MPA techniques for all women, regardless of their socio-economic category, parenting project or sexual orientation. It was also important to revisit the ban on the self-conservation of oocytes: its authorization is a good measure for the prevention of female fertility. Moreover, the insufficient consideration of fertility issues may be one of the regrets that this text raises. That is why we have once again supported, in a trans-partisan manner, the establishment of a national plan to prevent infertility, at the initiative of the chairman of the special commission. A true prevention policy, through national information and prevention campaigns, is indeed essential. Research into the causes of infertility must also be strengthened. We must make everyone's freedom and free will prevail because, as we know, resorting to an MPA is always a trial, made of pain and failure. The journeys are long, difficult and often have painful repercussions on women's bodies, on couples and on the life of the entourage. We must never underestimate the fight and the suffering that this represents. This leads me to another regret: the fact that the effectiveness of MPA techniques is still far from what we can expect. The success rates of LDC attempts after in vitro fertilization are far from satisfactory – they reached 20% in 2015. While we did not reach a consensus at first reading, our committee adopted an amendment, which I supported, allowing experimental pre-implantation diagnosis in search of aneuploidies, i.e. cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. Personally, I would like the text from our work to maintain this provision requested by many professionals. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a discrepancy between us. The aim is not to select or manipulate embryos, but rather to avoid transferring embryos with virtually no implantation potential and thus to cause miscarriages or medical interruptions of pregnancy, creating suffering and dangers for women. In addition, these diagnoses are not intended to be systematic but could be reserved for specific cases related to the age or past of patients. We will have the opportunity to come back to the subject in more detail, but I believe it is essential to adopt measures to improve the MPA techniques and their success rates today. As for the modes of filiation, the provisions introduced in the Senate were inconsistent with the ambition of the text. From the first reading, I gave a favourable opinion on the extension of the common law to include women's couples. This solution seemed to me the only way to guarantee equality between all couples and an absence of discrimination between couples using an AMP with third-party donors and same-sex couples. However, I recognize that the new article amended by the rapporteur Coralie Dubost in committee proposes a more satisfactory compromise, because it is more protective than the one we adopted at first reading. It also has the merit of pointing out the mention of the mother guardian, while guaranteeing the responsibility of both mothers for the child from the moment of consent to the donation. I stress, however, that this openness must not make us forget the mutations of families within our society: that is why I plead for a complete rewriting of filiation in our civil code. I hope that the revision of the law of filiation can succeed to take account of these developments. We also take note of the tabling of a bill by our colleague Monique Limon on adoption: it is indeed essential that we can also make progress on the subject. I would like to focus briefly on a provision introduced in the Senate and finally amended by the rapporteur in committee, concerning Article 4 bis on the transposition of birth certificates for children born to GPA abroad. The measure provides that the birth certificate is regular if the facts that led to it are consistent with the legal reality in our country. However, these birth certificates have been drawn up regularly under foreign law and it would be very disturbing to reconsider their validity on the pretext that they would not correspond to the French legal reality. This would place the children concerned and their families in legal insecurity and would be contrary to the best interests of the children. That is why our group has tabled an amendment aimed at preserving the spirit of Article 47 of the Civil Code, which provides that the civil status documents of French children legally established abroad are transcribed in the civil status register in France. More specifically, this amendment tends to enshrine and extend, by legislation, the now constant jurisprudence of the Paris High Court, which considers that foreign judgments by which the filiation of a child born by GPA has been legally established must be understood as an adoptive filiation. I would also like to stress the intransigence with which we must protect human beings and their dignity from the dangers of commodification or instrumentalisation. We must ensure respect for our ethical principles of the unavailability of the human body and the free and anonymity of the gift. In this regard, I regret that we have not been able to go further on the prohibition of organ trafficking and the fight against forced removal, particularly at the international level. Our amendments to this effect have unfortunately been found inadmissible. On the other hand, I welcome the adoption of the amendment by Mr Hervé Saulignac, which I had co-signed, which puts an end to the discrimination of homosexuals in the giving of blood. I hope that our work will maintain this provision. In general, the bill seems to me to strike a fair balance between respecting our ethical principles and accompanying scientific techniques, notably through the introduction of a differentiated regime between embryo and embryonic stem cells. This new regime will support embryonic stem cell research, which is essential for improving knowledge and accelerating the development of therapeutics, particularly expected and expected by many patients who do not currently have any treatment. We are also making progress on the donation of haematopoietic organs and stem cells, which medical techniques are constantly improving to cure certain cancers and immune deficits. These advances must be welcomed, they are the result of long years of study. More than ever, the epidemic of covid-19 reminds us of the importance of long time in health research and, above all, the need to always place the human – and therefore the patient – at the heart of the reflection and the path of care. Let us never dissociate health bioethics, because it is a matter of improving the quality of care and therapy using scientific techniques. As such, the safety aspect of practice seems to me to be satisfactory. I am pleased that we have been able to restore the ban on any advertising of genetic testing: genetic testing must be restricted to strict medical use. On the other hand, I am concerned about access to the voluntary termination of pregnancy: in addition to the provisions in the text, which I believe to be entirely relevant, I would like to remind you that, even today, and while it is a right guaranteed by law since 1975, it is still often contested and that there are still significant difficulties in accessing it, as the period of confinement has sadly proved. At first reading, I, like a majority of the Liberties and Territories group, supported the bill. At second reading, the text resulting from the work of the Special Committee reinforces me in this choice. However, every Member of Parliament in our group will again make a conscious decision as to whether the text reinforces the French model of bioethics, of which we can collectively be proud. Finally, I would like to stress one of the lessons of the crisis that we have just experienced: there is an urgent need to reconcile society and science. Since the outbreak began, scientists have never been more present in the media; It was to them that we turned to answer the many questions that the new virus posed. More than ever, we have become aware of the lack of information on the functioning of scientific research in France, of the rigid boundary between scientific teaching and political decision-making, and of the potential benefits of greater cooperation. In this regard, I believe it is important to go back to the deletion of the article establishing a parliamentary delegation to bioethics. I do not understand the choice made by the rapporteur to withdraw her amendment to this effect at the last moment, on the pretext that the President of the National Assembly had committed himself to creating an ad hoc entity. Indeed, its content and functioning have not been clearly defined, and the vague answers that have been given to us in committee are far from satisfactory. I regret that we are depriving ourselves of a useful and effective tool to inform national representation on complex bioethics issues. Such a delegation would have enabled us to better prepare for future revisions and to better take these issues into account in the various texts we are considering. Finally, we sincerely hope that in the future we will choose to invest heavily in scientific research: if we do not financially support research and its application in everyday medicine, all these advances will be in vain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. Hervé Saulignac and Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteurs of the special committee, also applaud, as well as MM. Philippe Berta and Maxime Minot]] In conclusion, I hope that the debates that will now be opened can take place in the same spirit as the one that prevailed at first reading and in the special committee, and that we can move forward by adopting measures that are expected and hoped for by many people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u103	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u104	So here we are at second reading, halfway through the passage of the bioethics bill. However, contrary to what the former Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mrs Agnès Buzyn, has for a long time stated vehemently, one of the paradoxes of the text – and not least – is that the opening up of medical assistance to procreation, the main subject of the political and public debate, is in fact not bioethics, but equality and universality of rights. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] All those directly concerned who, beyond the Assembly, listen to us at this time – there are some: aspiring parents or parents in the process of becoming, activists and activists for equality who have been mobilizing for years, sometimes decades, and who, from unfulfilled commitments as electoralists, have been wandering for eight years – expect from the Assembly a simple and clear message: when a technique is legal, one cannot condition its access to gender identity, sexuality or marital status, otherwise it is discrimination. It is, I repeat, only equality before the law and universality of rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u105	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u106	The bioethical question of whether medical assistance in procreation with sperm or oocyte donation was consistent with respect for human rights was decided in 1994 and so far universal access to such assistance is prevented. Limiting the LDC to male and female couples was a political choice, not bioethics. [[Caroline Fiat makes a sign of approval]] Indeed, the LDC does not treat infertility, but circumvents it: since there is a gift, there is no difference between a heterosexual couple and a couple of women. In both cases, the aim is to overcome with an external gift a biological impossibility to make children within the couple. The techniques used, the protocol and the result will be the same: to allow it and to refund it in the first case, and not in the second, to create and maintain discrimination – moreover, homophobic in nature. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] To refuse to consider the dimension of universality is also to increase the risk of denial of law, as unfortunately does the text before us today against transgender people. Why not accept, as we put it in our bill tabled in November 2018 and as rapporteur Jean-Louis Touraine also suggested, that "everyone" with the physical capacity to benefit from an LDC should have access to it? In fact, these words: "any person" would ensure equality before the law, without discrimination of gender or sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u107	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u108	As it is today, the text will give access to the LDC to some transgender people, but not to others, depending on their degree of transition, their status to civil status, whether or not they are in a couple and, alas, the level of prejudice of some doctors. This is intended only to protect standards – which we, for our part, consider archaic – rather than people and, above all, their rights. We see the same problem with filiation: the majority, by creating new distinctions between couples according to their gender, does not really go towards equality. Restoring the previously denied rights of certain categories of the population should be an opportunity to reflect on ourselves and on how we live and "to be family", and to broaden rights for all. We could have – perhaps we will have the opportunity in future texts – opened the debate on what families are today, with their history and diversity, in order to finally give them rights and recognition. Instead, we are dealing with bad DIY. Even in the case of LDCs, a man married to the child's mother has the presumption of paternity; Otherwise, he simply recognizes the child at the town hall. Why don't you plan exactly the same thing for two women? What need to mark the difference?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u109	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u110	Why not choose, as has been proposed since the beginning of the examination of the text, many amendments which we have supported alongside several Members of the opposition and the majority, simple methods of filiation, identical for all, such as recognition and possession of state, and include them in the common law? According to this text, and to use the Orwell formula, all people would be equal, but some would be more equal than others. As it stands, the text resulting from the committee's second reading does not solve some of the problems faced by already constituted families. What, for example, are separate women's couples where only the mother who bore the child was recognized as such, and the other mother cannot adopt her, since she would have to be married for that? Finally, there is a topic in the bill that is bioethics, but that has been treated as a minor issue: the prohibition of mutilation of intersex children. The latter, which account for no less than 1.7 per cent of the population, have variations in genital development at birth. Medicine and society inflict upon these children, sometimes still infants, sometimes very heavy operations, usually with a purely aesthetic aim, without any vital emergency, to force them a gender identity and to conform them to the idea that society does what a girl or boy should look like. Of course, this is done without their informed consent: a gender is thus assigned to them by force, almost at random, depending on the size of their genital organ; More than a third of them will not recognize themselves in adulthood. These operations can lead to very severe physical and psychological sequelae and pathologies requiring life-long treatment. These acts constitute human rights violations, for which France was condemned on several occasions within the framework of the UN – United Nations – in 2016, by the voice of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and the Committee against Torture. International human rights associations, such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, have openly stood in favour of stopping these practices. In France, DILCRAH, the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred – lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans – also calls for the cessation of mutilation. Finally, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights and the Council of State issued opinions to this effect in May and July 2018. I am sure, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are particularly sensitive to the issue of the protection of children and their integrity: they are people, to whom we must give the opportunity to choose their kind. It took months and repeated calls from the associations of persons concerned for the subject to finally get into the debate and, ultimately, it was a measure of accommodation rather than a ban that was introduced into the text. That is why, although we support most of the measures in the text, it still seems to us to be incomplete and largely perfectable. For all the people concerned, who have sometimes experienced these debates as a challenge to their lives, their families, their bodies and even their humanity, but also for all those who have demonstrated, petitioned, fought, protested, written, filmed, explained as pedagogically as possible, and even told their intimacy, so that in the end, the group of France insoubted will continue, at second reading, until the adoption of the text, to question the majority, to amend, and to formulate proposals to defend these legitimate claims. [[The speaker quoted a sentence in English.]] As Marsha P. Johnson, one of the black transgender women who launched the Stonewall riots, who are behind the pride marches and new advances in LGBT rights:
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u111	In French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] "Until my people have rights throughout America, there will be nothing to celebrate. So we do not yet celebrate equality, but we will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u113	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u114	[[Smile]] If you want to know what a bioethics law should be about, listen to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u115	You're right, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u116	Thibault, do you think he'll be in power soon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u117	[[Smile]] Ten years left is too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u118	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is particularly pleased to finally be able to start the second reading of the bioethics bill in public session. In this House alone, through the first reading and until now, the national representation has worked for more than 200 hours, in committee and in public sitting, to reach the text which we are beginning to examine. Ladies and gentlemen, we will never move fast enough to establish equal rights...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u119	Equal rights for children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u120	... and that is precisely the purpose of this bill. It aims to give equal rights to all women in access to medical practice, the LDC, and to enable children born of a gift who so wish to have access, by their majority, to unidentifiable information or to the identity of the donor. The aim is to ensure that marital status, for single women, sexual orientation, for women in lesbian couples, and gender identity, for transgender men, is no longer the cement of discrimination in access to medically assisted reproductive health – which will naturally have to be fully covered by social security. This text will have to give priority to the emancipation of every woman and the freedom for every person to conduct a parenting project as they see fit, far from any stigmatization or exacerbated paternalism, but with an assumed will to get out of the patriarchal conception of our society. The challenge is to rely on the decisions of each woman regarding her willingness to procreate, whether she chooses the use of the LDC or the self-conservation of her oocytes. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] For these women, who ask only to carry out a parenting project and to transmit their love, the procedures of medical aid to procreation represent real journeys of the combatant, sown with difficulties, which regularly result in unsuccessful attempts and successive miscarriages. It is precisely for this reason that we will defend the possibility of using the ROPA technique – reception of the partner's eggs. Mr rapporteur, I also welcome your determination on this subject. This technique significantly reduces the risk of miscarriage by removing the most promising oocytes and then embarking on pregnancy with the couple's wife with the lowest risk factors during pregnancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u121	You want to legalize pregnancy for others, say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u122	It is also in this sense that we will support the authorisation of the pre-implantation diagnosis of aneuploidies, known as DPI-A, as adopted by our special committee. Together with several colleagues, we will propose that you go further by allowing the post-mortem LDC, so that women who suffer the loss of their spouse during a reproductive medical aid course do not experience the automatic annihilation of their parenting project. In our discussions, we will also have to define the legal environment of children, regardless of the composition of their families. Let us never forget that a child simply asks to be loved, without any consideration for his or her family model, for the type of his or her parents or for his or her design. I tell you simply: the best security is the indifferentiation of the method of establishing filiation and the absence of hierarchy between families. The method of establishing filiation should be the same, whether a child is born from LDCs within a lesbian couple or a heterosexual couple. The woman giving birth must have her sonage established by the birth, and her spouse or spouse by the presumption of kinship. We will also need to ensure that children are legally secure, regardless of their mode of reproduction. It is now unacceptable that some children should be relegated to the status of ghosts of the Republic because they were born abroad from GPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u124	We will have to allow the transcription of their filiation and end the humiliation inflicted on the parents, consisting of having to adopt their own children. The issue of genital mutilation suffered by intersex persons will also need our full attention, in order to put an end to surgery or irreversible treatment in the absence of a vital emergency and informed consent of the child concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues that we are going to address, and I very much hope that, at the end of our debates, we will be able to vote for a text that is profoundly humanistic, with equality and social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u125	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u126	Human progress surprises us every day, constantly pushing back the frontier of possibilities. It is at the origin of the most beautiful achievements of humanity, but also of its darkest hours. Constantly aiguillon of our consciousness, it prompts us to question everything. In a process as inevitable as it is beneficial, this is how our society is gradually evolving. Laws, which reflect society, can only accompany changes. However, scientific advances cannot and must not go ahead of ethics. By the term "ethics", I mean the norms that define our society and our nation, everything we have collectively and tacitly considered desirable and reasonable: the fight against discrimination, the best interests of the child, or more broadly respect for human rights. These standards are in fact the cement of our social contract. Thus, when we deal with health, medical or biological issues, our compass must be the balance between two principles: on the one hand, to open up certain rights that promote the well-being of the French and to encourage research so that our legislation does not get bogged down in the past; On the other hand, make sure that it is ethics that defines the directions of science and not the other way round. In summary, the challenge we must address to the French is to ensure that human progress remains human. To that end, everything we build on bioethics must be based on three pillars. The first of these is dignity, which encompasses principles such as the primacy of the human person, respect for the human being from the beginning of his life, the lack of a heritage character of the human body and its inviolability, as well as the integrity of the human species. These principles are reflected, for example, in the prohibition of the creation of chemeric embryos. The second pillar is solidarity. Illustrated by the altruistic gift, it is expressed for example in compulsory health insurance, equal access to care or the place given to the most vulnerable. The principle of solidarity also implies hearing the suffering expressed by some, especially by those facing a family project that cannot succeed. Finally, the third pillar is freedom, which aims to preserve the privacy share and thus the autonomy of the individual in his or her choices. It implies the possibility of expressing truly free and informed personal consent. The synthesis of these three pillars has been the focus of our public bioethics policies for more than 25 years. Since 1994, the Government and Parliament have legislated to do so. Every time, even though the debates have been passionate, our society has grown. The newly opened rights now seem to us, with hindsight, quite natural and indisputable. In 1994, three bioethics laws came under the supervision of data management for medical research, organ and gamete donation, reproductive medical assistance and prenatal diagnosis. In 2004, it was necessary to adapt to different scientific developments. The choice was thus made to prohibit cloning and, with rare exceptions, pre-implantation diagnosis, but to allow embryo research. In 2011, in response to the lack of organ donors and the growth of medically assisted reproduction, the legislator opened the way for the cross donation of the former and redefined the modalities of the latter. In 2020, it is time to respond to new developments in research. It is up to us to build on what has been done with regard to bioethics over the past twenty-five years, without denying the guiding principles I have set out, but also without hesitation in changing the provisions of law that no longer make sense. It is natural that talking about bioethics is a source of concern and tension. But I am convinced that today, as we did at first reading, we will find a consensus that will take into account all the sensitivities and free ourselves from the classic political divisions. Members of Parliament and senators of all sides have been able to agree, we have seen it and we will see it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u127	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] Ah? I didn't notice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u128	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Together, with 577 MPs and 348 senators, we have found a way forward that will honour national representation in the years to come. This is the synthesis of a six-month consultation with citizens, associations, health professionals and scientists. It is the result of a long-term reflection, fed in particular by the report of the Council of State in July 2018 and by that of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices in October 2018. This path, finally, is the very embodiment of the parliamentary democratic process in which thousands of amendments were tabled and sometimes adopted in one year, in depth modifying the original text. The Government has done exemplary work to ensure that what will soon be called the 2020 Bioethics Act, passing under the eye and the sharp pen of every component of our society, reflects the widest possible picture of political views and opinions. This text extends the right to certain medical techniques by adapting to the changes in our society and our science and aims, on the contrary, to prevent certain technical advances from causing harmful spillovers whose consequences we cannot now imagine. It thus provides a framework for society's expectations of scientific progress. In France, these expectations are numerous and stem from the existing inequality with certain countries, including border countries, which allow prohibited practices in our territory. Some French people may use these medical techniques abroad, while those who do not have the same resources are forgotten. This is one of the reasons I personally support this bill to reduce inequalities and protect the rights of the child, regardless of his or her origins, the sexual orientation of his or her parents and the manner in which it was conceived.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u129	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u130	This requires a major step forward in opening up the right to use the LDC to women's couples and women alone, as well as heterosexual couples. This provision of the bill corresponds to a campaign commitment by the President of the Republic and puts an end to an inequality that existed in fact in France. The full reimbursement of these new LDC opportunities through health insurance is also beneficial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u131	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] She's walking faster than the walkers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u132	Let her talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u133	The extension of the possibility of making use of the LDC to women's couples also requires the resolution of a question relating to the child born therefrom: that of filiation. Indeed, filiation with both mothers, for children from LDCs abroad, was very difficult to obtain at the time of their return to France. The bioethics bill clearly responds to this difficulty by allowing the biological mother and the mother of intent to be recognized as mothers of the child from the LDC and thus to solve the problem of filiation on the latter's civil status certificate. Moreover, the draft law creates a method of filiation by early declaration of will, enabling women's couples to become legally, simultaneously and from birth, the parents of the child from the LDC. Another great expectation about the LDC was the right of access to their origins for the children who came from it. With this text, all persons born to LDCs with third-party donors will be able, if they so wish, to access the non-identifiable information relating to the third-party donor and its identity. With this measure, new donors must, before making a donation, accept that their identity may be lifted at the request of the child. Among the advances proposed by this text, mention should also be made of the easing of the conditions for cross donation of organs and transplants. It will now be possible for protected adults and minors to give their organs, cells or even blood, provided that they are fully informed and that their consent is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u134	The free and informed consent of a minor is complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u135	The principles of solidarity and non-discrimination are further reaffirmed by the provision prohibiting the selection of donors on the basis of their sex or sexual orientation. In concrete terms, this provision means the removal of the four-month time limit without sexual intercourse imposed on homosexuals wishing to give their blood. Here is how this bill synthesizes the different opinions, sensitivities and experiences gathered within civil society, the Government and Parliament. So here's how we'll renew our bioethics practices. The provisions that I have outlined to you are necessary, that of responding to advances in scientific research and the values of our society. They are also the result of a desire to reduce inequalities, to promote solidarity and to defend freedom. Sharing this necessary will, the Action Group will be constructive in the debates and free in its vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u136	Opportunistic, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u137	[[Applause on the banks of the Action ens and EDS groups]] We will remain very vigilant on these issues that affect the French intimately.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u138	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u139	Tell us about merchant drifts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u140	What humans and humanity do we want to be? It is this question that we find ourselves in the final instance when we try to deal with bioethical issues. These are sensitive and complex issues. Many women and men look at them with a certain apprehension, both because they come to touch a part of the intimate, because we feel that they are surpassing each and every one of us as an individual, because they sometimes come to question our choices and our very existence. In front of them, one may want to look away, whether one believes that one is not personally concerned or too closely concerned. We can also protect ourselves by combining sharp positions leaving little room for questioning, in one direction or the other. All of this is going through us. I mean here that the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and I are being questioned by these issues; sometimes we doubt, we always look. They ask to be educated before deciding, because they cannot be decided without precautions and prevention. These are not choices a priori. That's where we're going. It is therefore with humility and courage that we must face these challenges: humility before the amazing work of building humanity; the courage not to give in to ease by running away from the problems posed, were they embarrassing – and it is no doubt this exercise that our assembly and our society have the most difficulty in facing. So what is the human person? This question was raised by the philosopher Lucien Sève, an eminent member of the National Ethics Advisory Committee at its foundation, in a small book as dense as it is important. What is the human person? It is not reducible to a genetic code, it is not soluble in a legal definition. It is in civilized and civilizing social practices that the dignity of the person takes shape. Because of this cultural and anthropological sedimentation, we are not a species comparable to others. And what is living? What is a human existence? Each person's life does not obey numerical models, it cannot be summed up as a mathematical equation. Our existences are made up of a quest for fulfilment, for development, for deep freedom, for happiness, in a word of emancipation. But they are also made of risk, uncertainty, and our human limits – well human, some will say too human. Our existences are shaped in social relations, in their complexity, their totality, their gravity, their wealth. To say this is not to agree with the arguments of fatality and destiny: it is simply to recognize and defend the dignity of the human condition, and for that reason equal rights. Scientific and technological progress puts us in the face of new issues, and if we are here, it is because there is a need for democratic deliberation. We warn against any attempt to organize the controversy between the progressives and the conservatives, some being in blissful adoration before the possibilities opened by science and others tetanized by any form of novelty. If we must guard against any fascination with a human being subjected to technology, it is not on this point that the real door to the debate lies. In what is possible, is there anything that challenges human dignity? That's the point. As long as the answer takes into account worldviews for which this question is not cardinal, as long as the desire to gain power over others arises, as long as the silhouette of profit arises, there is danger. There is a danger that the decision will be flawed. Patriarchal domination, which continues to structure the world and impose a degraded place on women, must be unmasked. Bioethics cannot be the instrument for the perpetuation of this injustice. It is known that racist and discriminatory visions aimed at challenging the unity of the great human family and at organizing the exploitation of one part of humans by the other have sought to use science for their own purposes. Among the worst enemies is money, by which everything seems to be selling or buying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u141	How true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u142	If he fascinates so much, beyond any limit, it is because he is an absoluteist and unreasonable form of power, for which reason, if human dignity is to be protected, the logics of profit must be removed without care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u143	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u144	Frankly, this is far from being the case in the organisation of health, and biomedicine is no safer than the rest – it may be even less so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u146	I am so concerned that the shadow of confusion between the public and the private sector is spreading into the debate that is before us. In this regard, we need firm principles and radical positions, otherwise ethics is nothing more than a lame arrangement with our common conscience that deceives only ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u148	No space for commodification, for private interests. Capitalism is without conscience, and it is at issue in the subject we are dealing with. It is in our world that the most powerful multinationals, digital ones, invest heavily in biotechnology, are ready to buy for hundreds of millions of dollars a start-up whose idea seems vaguely profitable. Engaged in a competition, considerable forces have invested this field and sell us, instrumentalizing our desires, a life without disease, a superhuman intelligence, an increased humanity, an age abolished. This illusion of the infinite individual is a danger to humanity. She claims that everything is repairable, that everything has its solution in technique, without ever seeking in material conditions, in the transformation of social relations, in respect of the environment, of sources of improvement, of well-being, of development. It feeds on financial interests that have nothing but to do with the process of humanization of humanity. The human person is, I recall, the product of an entire civilizing process. According to Hugo Aguilaniu, researcher at the CNRS, our rejuvenation capacity has been concentrated in reproductive function and this evolutionary choice has enabled us to develop other capabilities. "Life is more fun for us than for hydra," he says. One thing is certain: wanting to get rid of a human condition whose limits would displease us could lead us to disturbing shores. The question therefore arises as to whether limits should be laid and who should lay those which the considerable forces of money do not intend to lay down. Who judges profits and their price? Why are we looking? The only thing that must prevail, the only compass, is respect for human dignity, that is, for all human beings and all human beings. It's not without consequences. This means that what is allowed for a person can have consequences for the whole human race, so that a person's desires are not justified in taking the force of law. However, they must be heard, they must be examined on the basis of what they commit. This means that it is not up to researchers or engineers, or applicants, to decide what needs to be done with regard to biotechnology. Always comes to ask the question of meaning and when it is ruled out, one can fear for ethics. That's how we have to make a way. This calls for a coherent and consistent vision, not a fluctuating line guided by a logic of concessions to which we have not been otherwise accustomed and a spirit of febrile compassion. A weak coherence puts us at risk of a fragile ethical architecture that would call for transgression. Let us talk, for example, about this notion of origin. You have a historical-social conception of it when you write filiation and biologizing when you invent the "right to origins". How do I get there? You take a rather reserved position on so-called recreational tests and raise the donor's anonymity, arguing for a legal logic that does not hold. You invoke the interest of the child as the ultimate justification without ever summoning a demonstration, and this can be easily turned around as some of you observe, and I do not give them any reason about the objective, about children born of GPA abroad. So there is a need for solid foundations and these zigzags threaten to make us take our feet in the carpet. I mean in passing our attachment to the gift in all its disinterested dimension and our fierce opposition to any commodification of the body, the products of the body and of all that belongs to the person. We must reinforce the logics of gift, which build a humanity that is united in the face of trials. I also want to draw attention to issues around plasma and medicines derived from body products, for which we must guarantee safety and free of charge. Private interests are already very fond of the subject. I also want to express our concern about the situation of the French Laboratory for fractionation and biotechnology. The debate focused a great deal on the evolution of medical assistance to procreation, which is only one aspect of the text – some of whom I am not, seeing it as a civilizational revolution. Medical reproductive assistance is already possible with third-party donors. Women in marriage with a man with whom they carry a parenting project use it. It is not clear on what basis it could continue to be denied access to all women with parental projects without discrimination. Women are now implementing their project on the margins. There is a clear coherence in opening up this right to all, and in order to avoid social inequalities, this should be covered by social security. The best way to guarantee it is to be able to rely on a public service adapted to the needs and not, as I sometimes hear, to acknowledge its lack of means to develop a private sector. Those who work there, those who have experienced it, know that the purpose of this public sector is simply to respond to requests for reproductive assistance. Since this possibility is also open to all, each person will be able to engage in a parenting approach through medical assistance and accompanying assistance. It is a question of gaining access to a precise technique, without adorning itself with false resemblances and assuming this choice. Contrary to what is sometimes agitated by some, this reflection does not lead to opening the right to pregnancy for others, which does not exist in France, a practice against which our group stands with vigour. The GPA consists of heavily instrumentalizing a woman's body, making it a commodity, causing a ripple, and we are fiercely opposed to it. Everything that could be an incentive to use it must be ruled out, and our country's position must be clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u149	The text is not about GPA!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u150	Medical assistance in procreation consists of acts that are not trivial to live and which often prove to be fruitless. We can understand that we want to guarantee the best conditions for success. However, we must guard against the temptation of some sort of selection that would not be without problematic significance for the human race, far beyond the LDC itself. In the world of transhumanism, some are pushing procreational artificialization logics, the meaning and effects of which would be ethically problematic. We have to go to assistance, otherwise we would go too far with a certain idea of the human race. Even if the human person is not reducible to a body, he is born of the flesh and is also a civilizing fact. Another perspective would by nature be dehumanizing. These perspectives, some of which are tempting on the scale of a life, of a person, refer us to deep questions, taken at the level of society. Our human condition, how to ignore it in these difficult times, is subject to hazards that escape us and when a child is born, no one can guarantee that he will be spared by the disease. Many women and men also live with diseases, which we must fight without denying ourselves, and nevertheless know the happiness of being and vibrating with others. We are all different, with our strengths and fragility, with the inherent uncertainty of our personal trajectory. To give birth, even if it does not always happen this way, is to commit, it is to take the risk for the one who comes, it is to accept this uncertainty by wishing yet the best. Again, with our choices, we need to measure what we gain, what we touch and what we risk. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] An in-depth reflection must be conducted on the increased human as he can imagine in laboratories. To act for the best to become human is not to break free from what we are. We need to push forward the substantive issues, the questions of meaning, to keep away the illusory and destructive temptation of the all-power, to aim for the care, the accompaniment, the human in its frailties and its fullness. We saw in the period of health crisis how much it was in the relationship with others that the gaps or injuries from the human condition were being addressed. Every day we become aware of the enditude of the earth, and we must no doubt also accept our own limits. What needs to be sought is an ethic of shared happiness, which is not only found in the technique, in the opulence of some, in the unbridled market. That is why we must act with as much vigour for humans as for the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u151	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u152	[[Exclaims on various benches. – Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will address three points which I believe are essential in this general discussion. The first relates to the timetable: many of you have wondered – and have questioned us – about keeping this text under review in July. Perhaps you consider that the Assembly should already have returned the weapons in mid-July?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u153	It depends rather on the work on the ceiling of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u154	The majority, however, was pleased that an extraordinary session would allow it to sit until the end of the month, and to meet the demands of the French for quality parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u155	Is it before the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u156	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. "Ms. Sonia Krimi applauds too.]] It doesn't pass before or after: there are emergencies to be dealt with. There was first a health emergency, then an economic and social emergency – it is not forgotten by the majority and the Government – but there is also the urgency of thousands of women waiting for us to keep our promise. This promise will be fulfilled through the review of the bioethics bill in accordance with the schedule. Some believe that we are looking at this text in catini. But the work of our assembly is public; Nothing here is secret or hidden from the French – and fortunately, because it is the very essence of parliamentary work. The special commission to examine the bioethics bill, which you chaired with demand and responsibility, Mrs.Firmin Le Bodo, was installed last August. So it's been almost a year since we've been working...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u157	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u158	... and that we conduct auditions; We examined the bill at first reading, in committee and in sitting...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u159	It's been a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u160	... and we are looking at it today at second reading, knowing that the House will certainly do a third reading of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u161	Next summer! Remember last summer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u162	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Nothing is hidden, because there is no shame in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u163	There was nothing pressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u164	My second point relates to the reasons for our consideration of this bill, and to the very balance of the text. You mentioned red lines earlier, and I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u165	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u166	But before you set red lines, you have to draw green lines and find a balance. The legislator intended that every seven years – and soon every five years, if we adopt the text – we would examine the new scientific advances and determine – after the advice of the National Advisory Council on Ethics and after the organisation of general states of bioethics with the French – those that were desirable. This is the balance to which the majority is attached, in support of the Government. Bioethics debates go through society as a whole as well as all political groups. I fully share what you have said, Mr Dharréville, which does not happen for all the texts! The very essence of this bill is to identify points of agreement between groups that usually have little in common, if not the will of parliamentary work and democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u168	All the groups, including yours, Mr Bazin, are divided with regard to this text – and so much the better, because it is a sound demonstration that Parliament is a place for debate and that it is in the image of the French, crossed by ethical questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u169	We don't exclude Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u170	It is in the honour of our assembly to recognize this, as it is in the honour of the Republic group on the move to take on differences within it. I am committed, as I said, to certain balances that we cannot break with regard to fundamental issues: this is the case with the post-mortem LDC. I know, Mr rapporteur, that this word bothers you, and I understand it: when we talk about post mortem LDCs, we only see pain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u171	You have to say things, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u172	We must, however, reach an arbitration on this matter. In my soul and conscience, I consider that we would cross an ethical line too important by accepting the post-mortem LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u173	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u174	The same applies to IPR-A.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u175	She's doing the government's job, finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u176	Again – and that is why we need calm debates – there is only pain: pain of couples whose LDC procedures have sometimes failed, pain of women who have not been able to complete their pregnancy...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u178	... but beyond this pain, we must ask ourselves whether individual cases can prevail over a societal issue. I do not believe that in this respect we can go so far; I do not believe that the House can adopt a prior sorting of embryos. That is why, humbly, in accordance with my personal ethical imperative, I will not be able to vote for the IPR-A. My third point is the pride of being part of a majority that respects an essential commitment, a majority that, tomorrow, will allow thousands of women to start a family...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u179	But at what cost?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u180	... whether they are married or unmarried, heterosexual or homosexual – for we know that in the end, the French will retain from this text its advances in LDCs for all. It is a pride to support this text within the working republic group and the majority, and it is a pride to keep to a timetable. It's time! Women are waiting! They will not be able to endure our procrastination any longer, nor will they be able to endure the painful words which, unfortunately, sometimes come from this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u181	Are you going to fight GPA?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u182	To all these women, I say we're ready...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u183	Don't we talk about filiation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u184	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mrs Sonia Krimi also applauds]] ...and that we will vote with pride this week, the LDC for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u185	MODEM has lost its Christian-Democratic roots!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u186	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u187	Throughout its history, our country has experienced an incredible evolution in the rights and freedoms of every individual, at the cost of often difficult struggles. And what about women's rights, at the cost of perhaps even more challenging and frantic fighting? While they were crushed by patriarchal power and their inferiority was institutionalized by the Civil Code of 1804, their place and status changed, in a constantly changing world, and slowly pushed legislation to grant them new rights. It was not until 1944 that women were able to express themselves in the ballot box, in 1965 that they were able to practise a profession without the permission of their husbands, and in 1970 that they finally shared parental authority. At each of these moments – as with all the others, moreover – there has been talk of dealing with a social difficulty with courage and responsibility, at a specific moment in our history. This was the case in 1975 during the particularly long and passionate discussions devoted to the voluntary termination of pregnancy, which led to the Veil law. The discussions were not easy at the time, nor will they be so today, particularly regarding the extension of medically assisted reproduction to all women. I am aware that you will be asked for the same courage and responsibility as in 1975, because the objective is identical to that expressed at the time by Simone Veil: "to put an end to a situation of disorder and injustice and to bring a measured and humane solution to one of the most difficult problems of our time". The passion that enlivens me does not make me forget the other major advances contained in the bioethics bill, which are aimed, among other things, at combating discrimination. I am thinking in particular of my amendment, identical to that of Hervé Saulignac, adopted in Article 7a, which aims to avoid the exclusion of blood donors because of their sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u189	I am also thinking of the opening of the reception of oocytes for others and the pre-implantation diagnosis with search for anuploidies, the extension of the neonatal diagnosis or the new regime of the cross donation of organs. If I have chosen to support the extension of the LDC to all women, with humility, sincerity and conviction, it is because I am certain that beyond the stigma caused by the false debates, despite threats, insults and attacks, there is a question of the trust that we place so naturally on women to determine the right time to give life. This confidence should, in my view, suffice to rule out doubts, questioning and fears. Some of you will not be in favour of it out of conscience; Others will hesitate, fully aware of the legitimate desire of so many women to start a family, recognizing their distress to seek solutions elsewhere or to face practical and legal constraints. It is not because this debate arouses passions and controversies, and it raises natural questions, that we must coldly refuse to provide a thoughtful answer in accordance with the demands of our time. At this very moment, I do not wonder whether I belong to the opposition or to the majority – because yes, we can be on the right and in favour of this bill! I express a deep conviction that to refuse to extend the LDC to all women is not to condemn the family, but rather to respond to the challenges posed by its evolution. To extend the LDC to all women is not to promote selfishness, as I have heard, is to allow all women to be born and raise children. Who can deny this legitimate right without creating injustice? To accept the extension of the LDC to all women is to grant the right with reality, without claiming infallibility. Victor Hugo said: "It is difficult to compose the happiness of the man with the suffering of the woman. I would add that it is difficult to compose the happiness of a society with the suffering of its compatriots. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC, GDR, FI and EDS groups]] In this bioethics debate, including the opening up of the LDC to all women, who have so many fundamental values and conflicting reasons, remember that it is a matter of opening up, by law, a right to life and to the family. For it is life that summons us today, and not just history!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u190	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u191	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u192	As has been perfectly explained by previous speakers, particularly my colleague Michèle de Vaucouleurs, this text has broad societal aspects. For my part, I see many major scientific advances that will allow for a more precise, safe and ambitious exercise of anticipation medicine. We have thus advanced on many subjects: the extension of the cross donation of organs to four pairs of donors and recipients; the collection of haematopoietic stem cells from a minor or adult child for the benefit of his or her parents; examination of the genetic characteristics of a deceased person; consent to the examination of genetic characteristics; the differentiation of legal authorisation regimes for embryos and embryonic stem cells, or the limits for the conservation of embryos. The revision of bioethics laws is an extremely complex process, as it affects the deepest of human identity. We must lay down rules that reflect our society and our time, concerning scientific progress that sometimes exceeds us and which must be humbly recognized that it is difficult to measure all the consequences for tomorrow. It is therefore quite natural that the debates that feed our reflections go beyond the usual divisions: they refer us, in many cases, to our intimate conviction, as they solicit our individual consciences and our personal stories. A number of very sensitive topics have been the subject of special reflection. In the MODEM Group, we have ensured that the most secure legal framework is provided. It seems to us that, in this way, this text will bring real benefit to our fellow citizens, as well as to French medicine and research. First of all, I am thinking of the controversial issue of the creation of chemeric embryos in basic research. Let us not be hypocritical, and let us look at the current situation: it is an existing practice that is not framed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u193	Is that an argument to sustain her?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u194	Let us therefore take our responsibilities, by establishing a legal and very secure framework. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Similarly, with regard to the extension to 21 days of the possibility of carrying out research on supernumerary embryos, we preferred to go back to the 14-day device, because it is more secure. The issue of diagnosis, neonatal and preimplantation, is crucial for the MODEM group. We remain committed to ensuring that research focuses exclusively on abnormalities that are responsible for conditions that may be the subject of prevention or care measures. I do not see in the name of what we would do without what is an important step forward for medicine. It is well known that the early management of conditions is a very important condition of their treatment. In the case of IPR-A, an experiment is proposed for three years; It will focus on the numeration of autosomes, and on them alone, i.e. chromosomes to the exclusion of sex chromosomes, in order to avoid any risk of discriminatory drift. While we have been pioneers in in vitro fertilization – IVF – the current high failure rate in France must lead us to mobilize all available forces to reverse this trend. This is a crucial issue in terms of the combatant's journey of an IVF for a woman and a couple, as well as the physical suffering and psychological ravages caused by failures. We would also like to welcome the removal of the selection criterion based on homosexuality in blood donation. If the measure adopted by the Special Committee is confirmed in a public meeting, it will be the end of absurd discrimination and the end of a symbolic fight for justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u196	As we can see, this text contains major progress, which should be welcomed. I also believe that our debates, which have been followed very closely outside this House, have enabled our citizens to take ownership of these issues through outreach work. That they take on themselves these ethical and scientific issues seems to me the best way to counter the false information and false words that can be heard regularly. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are fortunate to have very great scientists in our country. It is our role to support them, our role to promote medical progress and our role, above all, to improve the daily lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u197	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u198	It's July 27. Because of the economic crisis, many of our compatriots have already lost their business, their jobs; Others live in uncertainty, in anguish. And in this climate of widespread concern, what are we going to discuss? Job? Buying power? Health? Security? Think! No, rather than addressing these unimportant issues, it is better to focus on what 1% of French people regard as a priority in these circumstances: the bioethics bill – your obsession. Your stubbornness and eagerness to move this bill forward once again demonstrate, if necessary, your total disconnection from the real concerns of our fellow citizens. Contrary to what some of you, ladies and gentlemen, and some of the people supported here and there by militant media, the so-called LDC for all obviously has nothing urgent – especially since all this struggles to reach consensus and is not likely to appease minds in an increasingly divided society. The philosophical, moral, existential issues raised by this bill would, I believe, have deserved more time to think about it, along a different schedule. We agree that beyond scientific progress, it is a whole question of ethics that arises for us. Science, for its part, is devoid of all morals: it is at the service of man, who is capable of the worst as well as the best. What we are going to decide here today will determine tomorrow's society. That is why I have the firm conviction that these subjects must be approached with the humility and the necessary precautions, not with the arrogance of those who would like to think of themselves as God. By opening the LDC to women alone and to women's couples, we are taking the risk of fundamentally disrupting not only the very principle of "French" reproductive health assistance, but also the rights of the child as defined by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is also, of course, the question of filiation. With the authorization of the ROPA method, which offers the possibility of an inseminated oocyte donation within a lesbian couple – a form of GPA, therefore – one can legitimately worry about the complete destruction of relationships of kinship, based so far on birth, which anchors human reproduction in nature. The notions of father and mother will become meaningless words, legal fictions. ROPA, which challenges the fundamental principle of anonymity of the donation, is the antechamber of the GPA. If the text before us today is adopted, it will inevitably lead to a breach of equality with men's homosexual couples, a breach of equality that will have to be redressed in the name of the alleged fight against discrimination and the right to the child, affirmed to the detriment of the child's right. Thus, the GPA will be included in the next bioethics bill! Slowly but surely, I feel, colleagues, that we are moving towards the "best of the worlds" as described by Huxley. Individual desires of a consumeristic nature take precedence. The child produced by the technique is one of them. Since science allows, only those who promote access to the child for all will be placed in the camp of good, the others in the camp of reactionaries – at best. The special commission also endorsed the principle of the creation of transgenic embryos and that of the creation of animal-human chimeras. A research protocol conducted on a human embryo may now be authorised, as if it were on a vulgar mouse. On the other hand, the creation of chimera by inserting human stem cells into an animal embryo for the purpose of transfer to the female was authorized by the special commission. Honestly, it's cold in the back! Finally, concerning the IPR-A, which allows the selection of embryos in vitro in order to eliminate – let's say – children with disabilities, I would like to recall the warning of Agnes Buzyn, then Minister of Solidarity and Health, against the eugenic drifts of such a measure. In spite of this, a few months later, you serve it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u199	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u200	In conclusion, this text seems to me to have ethics only the name. It respects no biological reality, it destroys filiation, it weighs heavy questions about the best interests of the child, all in order to respond to some individual and categorical desires, in the name of a progress that has gone mad, of a science without conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u201	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u202	[["So what? »on several benches of the LaREM group]] So it's not a nightmare. The second reading of the bioethics bill begins today, the last week of July, in the middle of the summer. The very new Prime Minister, Jean Castex, has himself decided, as soon as he takes office, to extend the parliamentary session for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u203	Not to mention the text in his policy statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u204	Curious decision, especially since the Senate, for electoral reasons, will not sit in September. There was therefore no urgency to examine this text in a more than sparsely populated Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u205	Deserted, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u206	...the benches of the majority being even almost deserted at the beginning of the session,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u207	No, we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u208	... when the French, at least those who can leave, are more concerned about their holidays than discussions at the Palais-Bourbon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u209	They don't listen to you, and they're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u210	Curious decision when the Prime Minister, always he, claims that his first concern is the crisis, with its health and economic stakes. In this regard, he joins the French: according to a survey published on 15 June by the FIFG, the French Institute of Public Opinion, 71% of them consider that this bill should be suspended or even withdrawn, in order to give priority to the management of the consequences of the crisis of the coronavirus. But it's so much easier to give in to pension reform and go after the families, the little ones of us: the children, the children you want to deprive of a father! Scandal decision, when we look at the conditions for examining the text: as at first reading, it is the scheduled legislative time that has been chosen. This procedure allows for a drastic limitation of the length of the debates. You must be very unsure of your fact to try by all means to restrain, to control, to obstruct speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u211	No, we're just tired of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u212	The non-attached Members will be given 30 minutes, I say 30 minutes, free of charge, to defend their beliefs on bioethics. That is to say nothing at all: as far as I am concerned, it is less than eight seconds per amendment tabled! However, the majority of the Republic on the move will have the front to explain, once again, that it wants a calm and peaceful debate... In essence, the decision to impose this alleged campaign commitment as soon as possible is not surprising; because, in the end, Emmanuel Macron will have failed all his promises. What can he claim in 600 days, when the balance sheet time has come? A dark economy: France is part of the European Union's tail peloton, with GDP expected to fall by 10.6% in 2020. Repeated social crises: yellow vests, pension reform pitifully pushed back after putting our country on its knees, health workers exsangued, law enforcement forces at the edge of the explosion, and I pass it. With this bioethics bill, Emmanuel Macron finally holds the opportunity to satisfy his side. At what cost? The future of our children. I said it, I'll keep directing it: these children, you're about to give birth to them without a father. May one of you dare to tell us that a child does not need a father – let him dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u213	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u214	But it is true that you dare everything: the baby medicine, the transgenic embryo, animal-human chimeras,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u215	Yes! It's The Best of the Worlds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u216	...the absence of the spouse's consent to the donation of gametes, the extension of the pre-implantation diagnosis to non-heritable diseases, the elimination of the multidisciplinary team to prepare couples for the LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u217	Defend the families, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u218	Yes, you dare! Moreover, you lie: you swore, with your hand on your heart, that you would oppose the GPA. That's not true! Your new text opens the door by providing for an almost automatic civil registration of the birth certificate of a child born by GPA designating a parent of intention. How will you prevent a couple of men tomorrow from having children, in the name of your sacrosanct equality, by praising a woman's belly, when you allow a couple of women today to procreate? All your denials won't change anything. You demand parity, except for filiation. You demand equality, except for children, some of whom will know their father and others, because of you, will not know him. You who invoke the precautionary principle all the time, you forget it when it comes to children, our children! I wish I had been able to speak to Mr. Keeper of the Seals: he likes challenges; Will he defend these children who, in twenty years' time, will attack the French state for deliberately depriving them of a father?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u219	Oh, no! It's going too far!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u220	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u221	[[Applause among non-attached Members and on certain benches in the LR Group]] This bioethics law will be your only record, and it will be your shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u222	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u223	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group]] For a very expected answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u224	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] Before replying briefly to the speakers – as the discussion of the amendments will give us the opportunity to revisit a number of the substantive issues that you have addressed –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u225	We've asked a lot of questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u226	And we're not in a hurry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u227	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u228	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let the Secretary of State complete his speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u229	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] ...I would like, if I may, to have a thought for Raphaël Gérard, today convalescent. During the first reading, he animated the debates with passion and conviction, a conviction sometimes opposed to yours, but respectable. We wish him a speedy recovery. Secondly, we do not seem to have the same idea of secrecy or even democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u230	We certainly don't have the same conception of the family!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u231	Four reports have been devoted to the subject that concerns us: that of the Council of State, that of the general states of bioethics, that of OPECST and that of the information mission. This bill was introduced in July 2019: in the Assembly, it has been the subject of two weeks of hearings, which most of you have attended,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u232	The choice of auditionees was somewhat biased...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u233	... and four weeks of examination at first reading; The Senate, in turn, examined it in December and January for two weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u234	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u235	In the meantime, there has been a health crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u236	He returned to the Assembly for a second reading, first in committee in June, then in session, where more than twenty-five hours of debate are scheduled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u237	That's half as much as on first reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u238	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u239	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] All opinions have therefore been able and will still be able to express themselves in full transparency. Point of catimini, point of secrecy: this text will be discussed as appropriate. Some of you have reminded us that it is July 27. I don't know if it's the French who are on vacation, or you who are looking forward to not being on holiday yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u240	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Let's hear the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u241	Indeed, in July, many French people are working!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u242	So far, the debates have been calm, soothed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u243	And without provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u244	...and without any provocation. Mr. Brindeau, you are a young Member of Parliament:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u245	He has already sat in the Chamber in the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u246	...I understand your impatience better than that of Mr Breton or Mr Hetzel. But many texts were adopted in July. It is not surprising that the same applies to this bioethics bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u247	Is that the government's priority?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u249	Finally, you object to the fact that a number of provisions adopted in the Senate were rejected in the examination of the text in a special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u250	All wiped away with a back of your hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u251	And worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u252	No consensus search!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u253	Like the Government and the majority, you are following the parliamentary procedure; admit that this is only a procedure that can no longer be classic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u254	On a bill that is not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u255	Before coming to the discussion of the articles, I would have wanted to tell Mrs Obono: this majority will keep the promise of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u256	Or what's left of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u257	... by adopting this text of revision of bioethics laws, which offers in particular to women alone...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u258	Can you imagine what it'll do for single women?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u259	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... and women in couples the possibility of resorting to the LDC in our country. This is expected by many families, by many children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u260	He didn't answer the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u261	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u262	It is based on Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure, by referring to Rule 56, which deals, inter alia, with the statements made by members of the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] We have just attended four and a half hours of general discussion, during which our colleagues from all sides have asked a number of questions. However, it was very shocking that, with the exception of Ms. Belloubet on article 4, the Government had been completely absent during the examination of the text in committee. The Secretary of State gave no substantive reply; he spent less than four minutes answering the questions ginned for four and a half hours. If this is your conception of a peaceful debate, if this is the respect you have for Parliament, it is scandalous! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-I groups, as well as among non-attached Members. "Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] Mr Secretary of State, you are alone: where are the other representatives of the Government? Before we defend our amendments, we are waiting for answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u263	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u264	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 1, 126, 1367 and 1791. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u265	First of all, I would like to associate myself with the wishes of our colleague Raphaël Gérard for a speedy recovery, on the other hand, with the words of Patrick Hetzel. It is indeed regrettable that the Secretary of State, representing the Government, did not bother to answer the questions, whereas the general discussion should allow us to go into the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u266	Defend your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u267	Once again, our questions are swept away with a backhand, on the grounds that we must do as quickly as possible and that we will not waste time discussing. We can deplore the absence of our colleagues earlier at the beginning of the sitting; We can deplore the prompt response of the Secretary of State. The aim of this amendment is to delete the title of Title I: "Enlarge access to available technologies without escaping our ethical principles". Do you need to insist on the need not to break away from these principles, to include it in a title! These are normally all in sobriety; They simply state the purpose of the law. It seems that, by this statement, you are seeking to give yourself a good conscience. Either you show brevity: "Enlarge access to available technologies," or you show sincerity: "Enlarge access to available technologies while striving not to violate our ethical principles." In essence, this title summarizes the whole issue of the text; It is the best illustration of your attitude, which is to say that you do not cross the red lines, while only crossing them. That is why we are calling for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u268	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u269	As Xavier Breton has said excellently, the problem with this text is that the headings in which the Government asserts a number of things are, in the analysis, out of step with the content of the articles. True, we're dealing with fake news. Instead of doing political marketing, go back to the facts: you will realize this gap between the content of the text and your major statements. When it comes to bioethics, you cross red lines. This must be denounced; We will do so during this debate, and this debate will last for what it must last.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u270	And even more...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u271	Again, we hope that the Government will give us answers, because the way you have avoided responding, Secretary of State, is rather scandalous. Far from wanting a calm debate, you want to prevent the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u273	It is to despise Parliament,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u274	What are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u275	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] ... as your absence, which I regret once again, has already proved during the examination of the text in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u276	Mr Le Fur's amendment No. 1367 is being defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 1791.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u277	These debates start very badly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u278	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u279	...but we can say that they started very badly on July 15th. While the Prime Minister was speaking to national representation for the first time, his general policy speech did not mention the first text, apart from those related to the covid-19 epidemic, which he would submit to Parliament. This text aims to revise bioethics laws: it's not nothing! The Prime Minister didn't say a word about it. Perhaps he was forced by time: he had to go to the essentials. We consider that the essence includes these bioethics laws and their revisions. That is why last week, like last week, some colleagues, including Annie Genevard, sought to know what the Prime Minister for the revision of bioethics laws thought: nothing at all! Today, July 27, in the summer torpor, arguments were exchanged for four and a half hours of general discussion. We could have received a reply of little or no detail from the Secretary of State representing the Government. He swept it all away in four and a half minutes! [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] All this is quite deplorable, including the title of Title I. We must at this point reassure ourselves, convince ourselves by the method That the bill is ethical, that we reaffirm it to the envious, wrongly and through. For our part, we say, and we will have the opportunity to say again, that this text is neither organic nor ethical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u280	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u281	Despite the remarkable dialectic of MM. Breton, Hetzel and Gosselin, we are, of course, not convinced. Behind this proposal to delete the title of Title I is the desire to delete Title I itself, and many of the other titles of this bill. Similarly, we were told earlier that this text should have been postponed for a few years; In reality, it is his very existence that is displeased by some. Delete this title would undress the text. I listened to your argument: it is not convincing. The title of the title Iercorresponds exactly to its content: it is indeed a question of "enlargement of access to available technologies without escaping from our ethical principles". If we left the first part, it would mean an unframed, uncontrolled enlargement, applied without any restrictions, without any limits, without any barriers. On the contrary, throughout the text, we can see how much reservations have been made. You'd like to expand them; For my part, I would rather restrict them; But they do exist. There is indeed an ethical concern, each having its own conception of ethics, a fundamental concern that the application of this text does not give rise to drifts. This title is perfectly suitable for us; it is adapted to the text that follows it. I therefore propose that all our colleagues vote against these deletion amendments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u282	Not convincing, all this...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u283	Yes, that's convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u285	Don't feel like I don't want to answer you. You wish to delete the title of Title I on the grounds that it does not correspond to its content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u286	Yes! We're consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u287	I will show you that, on the contrary, it is in line with each of the chapters of this title. Chapter 1 contains two main measures: opening up reproductive health assistance to couples of women and single women, and allowing gamete self-conservation, which is supervised in order not to encourage it. Chapter 2, "Recognizing and securing the rights of children born of medical assistance in procreation", draws the consequences, in terms of filiation, from the opening of medical assistance to procreation, after having established, in a principal article of the Civil Code, the equality of methods of filiation and, through it, the equal rights and duties of all children towards their parents. In addition, without going back to the principle of anonymity in the donation of elements and products of the human body, article 3 of this chapter recognizes the needs of children born from reproductive medical assistance with third-party donors, by allowing them access to unidentifiable data and the identity of the donor by their majority. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] All these measures create rights that are not contrary to any bioethical principle and that can be exercised within a protective framework, in particular of the unborn child. I stress that, when they were drafted, we paid special attention to the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u288	You don't lack air!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u289	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The opening of these rights is an opening to a future that we look forward to with confidence. The title of Title I of this bill is therefore perfectly consistent with its content. That is why I will give an opinion against these identical amendments, hoping that my answer will have been sufficiently detailed for your taste.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u290	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u291	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u292	I believe that I am the only Member of the House who has followed the debates on the four bioethics texts since 1995.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u293	Mr. Secretary of State wasn't born!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u294	I don't know if you were born in politics at that time, Secretary of State; Don't use that kind of argument too much. I would like to ask a fundamental question: if we extend the LDC to women's couples and single women, taking into account the principle of equality between women and men – which is a constitutional principle – can you oppose GPA?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u295	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u296	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u297	The answer is no, clearly no; We will see what the Constitutional Council will say.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u298	He's right! There will be a priority issue of constitutionality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u299	We have to choose, ladies and gentlemen. As I have said on several occasions in the special committee, rapporteur Touraine, who is a true libertarian – not a liberal, a libertarian – recognizes this and assumes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u300	Excellent! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u301	Get off the masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u302	This is a perfectly respectable position, but he knows very well that we are heading towards GPA. He recognizes it himself in private: let's spend some time, and we'll go to the GPA. You won't be able to hold; So you have to choose. You cannot be against the commercialization of the human body and its elements, which is incompatible with GPA, while being for the LDC for single women and women's couples! You choose, but without any consistency. For this reason, the title that we are discussing is perfectly suited to what you want to do: to expand, constantly, without seeing the inconsistency of your position. Mr. Secretary of State, are you, yes or no, against the GPA? The answer is yes. But, in this case, you cannot be for the LDC for women alone, and it must continue to be reserved for heterosexual couples, in order to combat sterility. That would be consistent. You have to choose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u303	Curator!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u304	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Blandine Brocard also applauds]] Yes, but I am an ecologist in love, my dear colleague! I am a conservative, because I want to keep what is good in this case and in the advances of technology, but I am against those who want to use the technology for commercial, exploitative or discriminatory purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u305	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u306	You have to choose between the two. The rapporteur has chosen: it is for the GPA, which is respectable and consistent. I am against GPA, but also against the LDC for single women and women's couples, in the name of equality between men and women and the defence of the rights of the child. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups. – Mrs Blandine Brocard also applauds]] Mr Secretary of State, instead of arguing, let us be balanced and discuss the real problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u307	I hope the night will give you advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u308	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u309	I should like to take the floor to respond to our colleague Charles de Courson. What is the purpose of extending the LDC to all women? To remove access discrimination on the basis of marital status.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u310	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u311	By allowing access to the LDC for single and lesbian women, the legislation allows all women in the country to resort to medical practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u312	What about the men? You're not answering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u313	With regard to pregnancy for others, there is perfect equality, because it is forbidden to everyone: to all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation, and to all men as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u314	What about the ROPA?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u315	You're for GPA, say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u316	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] Our political orientation is to allow medical assistance in procreation for all persons able to bear a child and to maintain the prohibition of pregnancy for others in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u317	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1020.u318	Next meeting at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
