ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u2	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 1124, concerning the creation of a national register of cancers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u3	Last month, all of France wore a pink ribbon to promote breast cancer detection campaigns. This month, men will wear a mustache to raise awareness of prostate cancer. It must be said that cancer is a real scourge in our country: according to the National Cancer Institute, 3.8 million people currently live with cancer or after cancer. The number of new cancer cases diagnosed in 2018 is estimated at 382000. According to Public Health France, the number of cancers has been increasing steadily over the last 30 years: it has grown by 65% in men and by 93% in women. While the population is aging and diagnoses are better, this does not explain everything: some increases are very worrying, such as the 234% increase in thyroid cancers between 1990 and 2018. All these figures are estimates, which indicate trends. In fact, in 2020, in France, we do not know exactly how many people suffer from cancer, because there is no national register: only a little more than 20% of the population, distributed in twenty-two departments, is the subject of a census of cancer cases in a departmental register, the national figures being drawn up by extrapolation. No precise data are available for some very large agglomerations such as Paris, Lyon or Marseille, nor for some departments with a strong location of Seveso sites – sites at risk of major accidents – with high thresholds, such as Bouches-du-Rhône, Moselle or Seine-Maritime. Regrettably, for those who want to tackle one of the causes of cancer, namely environmental pollution: if we do not have cancer registers for all departments, how do we know whether clusters are developing near refineries or pesticide manufacturing plants or whether some cancers are concentrated near certain locations? The cancer plan proposed by the National Cancer Institute for the period 2021-2031 has just been the subject of public consultation. This plan proposes, among other measures, to "mobilize data and artificial intelligence to meet new challenges". I therefore ask you to take up an imperative challenge for our population: to create a national cancer registry in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u4	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u5	You're asking me about creating a national cancer registry and our environmental health policy. First of all, the current coverage of cancer registries in France provides robust and reliable figures on incidence, prevalence and survival rates. While the national system for adults is based on data from 27 cancer registries covering 22 per cent of the population, the national register of childhood cancers has been comprehensive throughout the national territory since 2011. A platform for observing children's cancers has thus been set up, paving the way for a recasting, by merging the databases, of the national register of children's haemopathy and of the national register of children's solid tumours. In addition, the High Council for Public Health has been seized with a view to reflecting on registers and their place in the context of other available epidemiological tools. Its findings are expected to be delivered by July 2021. France fully relies on the complementarity of information systems. Our ambition is to build on the progress of artificial intelligence to develop and enrich a national data platform in cancerology. The 10-year cancer strategy to be announced in 2021 will, of course, take this issue into account. Environmental health issues are already fully part of the missions of regional health agencies, which are responsible for preventing certain environmental risks. In particular, they control drinking water as well as the fight against unhealthy habitat and co-pilot regional health-environment plans with the state and regions, which decline and adapt the national health-environment plan – PNSE. The PNSE running until 2024 provides French people with simple tools to know their environment and reduce exposures and risks. Some pesticides may be responsible for cancers, such as prostate cancer. Research in this area is supported by the Ecophyto Plan and the Chlordecone Plan. As such, cancer registries, but also cohorts, particularly the Agrican cohort – agriculture and cancer – provide valuable data to identify the links between exposure to certain substances and cancer. Our policy on this subject therefore extends to all fields and will develop in the years to come with the help of new technologies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u6	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u7	Your technical answers can no longer hide your political choices, Madam Deputy Minister: the current file does not allow us to know, for all departments, whether there are areas with an abnormally high number of people with cancer, which would make it possible to really study environmental pollution and, above all, to stop it. As for the comprehensive census of childhood cancers that you are referring to, I would point out that these represent, fortunately, only 1,700 new cases per year, while an additional 382,000 cancers are reported each year in the general population. So you don't count well! It is true for this register that you are unable to create, but also purely financial – which, no doubt, is the one that affects you the most – since the creation of a national register would cost only 60 million to 70 million euros, while the cost of cancers in France amounts to 28 billion euros each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u8	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Claireaux, to put his question, No. 1130, on social security in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u9	My question concerns the requests for legislative changes that have been transmitted to me by the board of directors of the social security fund – CPS – of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon regarding the operation of the general social security system in this territorial community. By deliberation adopted unanimously last July, the Board of Directors calls for amendments to the provisions of the Social Security Code and of Order No. 77-1102 of 26 September 1977 governing the operation of the general scheme in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. These requests relate to two major issues. On the one hand, it is necessary to specify in the Social Security Code the system of legislative speciality applicable to the social security fund of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, in order to prevent the legal risks raised by a recent report of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs – IGAS. On the other hand, the board of directors proposes that the social security fund be seized for assent of any amendment of the general scheme of the archipelago as established by the 1977 order – assent which could concern either the whole of the provisions of the order or simply the regulations adopted for its application. The purpose of these requests is to secure the current regime in order to engage the archipelago calmly in the proposed changes to its general regime and to ensure a calm and constructive climate for future discussions. I would also like to pay tribute here to the work done by the board of directors and the staff of the caisse on these matters. What is the department's position on these two issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u10	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u11	You are asking me about two requests from the board of directors of the social security fund of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon addressed to Mr Olivier Véran, requests which you had relayed by submitting amendments in the context of the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021. With regard to the request to include in the social security code the principle of legislative speciality understood as not fully applicable to Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, I reply now that we are not in favour of it. Constitutionally, the community of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon is governed by the principle of legislative identity. Although a set of laws and regulations provide for specific adaptations to the community in the area of social security and constitute the bulk of the rules applicable locally, these laws do not exclude the application of the provisions of the Social Security Code. This situation, which is not legible, is a source of incoherence. Above all, it contributes to widening the gap between the social security rules applicable in the archipelago and the rules of common law, to the detriment of insured persons, who are left out of many reforms, as the IGAS report has highlighted. Work must therefore continue to approximate the social security rules of the archipelago with those of ordinary law, which could also be codified, for the sake of legibility and access to the law. This would also enable the CPS to benefit from the logistical support of the social security funds, which, in the light of its recent deliberations, seems to the Board of Directors to be fully aware of. This work will need to address the issue of contributions associated with benefits. You also indicate that the SPC's board of directors wants guarantees that it will be involved in the reforms. I confirm to you that he will naturally be consulted, respecting and limiting his functions. I therefore believe that it is necessary to re-establish the relationship between the Board of Directors of the CPS and the State, through constructive and trusting dialogue, in order to prepare the archipelago without delay for future social protection challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u12	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u13	I hear your answer very well, Madam Deputy Minister. However, I would like to reiterate here the centrality of the SPC and its Board of Directors in any reform of the local general system. We can only agree on the importance of the work to be done together, whether it be questions posed by the board of directors of the caisse or future alignment projects. I know that you and the Minister of Solidarity and Health will be at our side to carry out this work in complete serenity, in the interest of the social insurance companies and the economic actors of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u14	Mr Raphaël Gérard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1136, concerning the EHPAD of the Boscamnant hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u15	Madam Minister-in-Charge of Autonomy, today I want to address the concerns of many players in my constituency, south of Charente-Maritime, regarding the situation of the housing establishment for dependent elderly people attached to the hospital centre of Boscamnant. In 2013, with a view to improving the conditions of care and the quality of life of the residents of the establishment, a second site opened its doors in the municipality of Montguyon, located a dozen kilometers away. The establishment's location at two sites was accompanied by an increase in staff costs to ensure the presence of proportionate caregivers at each site. This situation is now creating a deficit that has grown over the years and has worsened as a result of the abolition of assisted employment contracts, which were a preferred way of recruiting teams. It now stands at nearly 1.4 million euros. To address this financial issue, an ongoing audit will eliminate seven full-time equivalents by the end of the year. Madam Minister-in-Office, given the economic context, I would ask for an immediate freeze on any decision pending the end of the crisis and the postponement of the audit. Indeed, the measure that appears to be emerging does not provide any structural response and will not reduce the deficit in the medium term. On the other hand, it could place several people in a situation of social vulnerability even though the employment pool of the Haute Saintonge is weakened by the economic and social crisis linked to the covid -19 epidemic. In the run-up to the discussions on the bill on autonomy and old age, it is necessary to think about and deploy a territorial strategy which takes account of the needs of the population situation in Haute Saintonge, the ageing index being higher than the national average and is based on the decompartmentalisation of health facilities. In this context, for example, we could consider developing on an experimental basis a network of territories based on the synergies that already exist between city medicine and hospital in order to make EHPAD an establishment open to the outside world, offering a multiplicity of services organised around a logic of life paths and care of the elderly and allowing for the retention at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u16	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u17	Generally speaking, as you know, recruitment difficulties in EHPADs do not, of course, date from the crisis. On the basis of this observation, I wanted to develop the attractiveness of the various professions supporting autonomy, both in EHPAD and at home, through structural contributions. The aim is to develop a response to the emergency situation but with lasting solutions for the future. The Great Age and Autonomy Act that I will present to Parliament next year will be the cornerstone of our policy in this area. The attractiveness of older occupations and the increase in the rate of supervision of people who are losing their autonomy in institutions are essential to this policy. In order to strengthen the attractiveness of these professions, the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – finances in particular the wage-revalorisation measures of the Ségur de la santé, i.e., an increase in the monthly wage of 183 euros net for non-medical professionals of public EHPAD and 160 euros net for those working in private non-profit EHPADs. In the face of the crisis, the PLFSS also finances a policy to compensate for exceptional additional costs. I have also launched with Elizabeth Borne and Brigitte Klinkert an emergency recruitment campaign for EHPADs and older trades, so that the prefects and general managers of regional health agencies – ARS – support local capacity building initiatives. This action complements the Renfort HR recruitment platform, launched during the first wave of the epidemic to appeal to voluntary health professionals, young people on civic service and the civic reserve. The more specific situation of the two EHPADs you are referring to is closely monitored by my department's teams. In the face of their structural deficit, the management of the two institutions wanted to conduct an audit to examine the operating budgets, considering that the allocations of the RSA and the department have already been regularly increased to support them in recent years. In particular, this audit refers to the possible abolition of posts for hospital services officers. Know that nothing is approved at this stage, I am very attentive to it. Other measures are advocated and preferred – revision of schedules, changes in work organisation, review of workloads, renovation of premises – to ensure more functionality. All leads are currently under consideration. I strongly encourage institutions to continue this dialogue with the SRA in order to find a suitable and appropriate solution. Finally, with regard to the provision of services, work is being done to ensure that the activities of these institutions are part of a territorial and coordinated response because I share the view that EHPADs must now be open to other services, involving the outpatient sector and the hospital through the development of a territorial health professional community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u18	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u19	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for this comprehensive response. It is important to stress, to supplement your remarks, that the elected representatives – mayors or representatives of the department – are extremely engaged in the territories on this issue. I mentioned it a few days ago with Dominique Bussereau, chairman of the Charente-Maritime department council. This territory could be a model and be a pilot because the way these two institutions operate brings satisfaction and fits perfectly with the logic put forward by the department three years ago. Therefore, it would be a shame that today, taking into account only the financial criteria, one misses the possibility of experimenting with the construction of such a network. Finally, I would like to ask the question of debt recovery, which will be an essential element of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u20	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to raise her question, No. 1150, concerning the application file for an MRI device submitted by the Condom hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u21	Madam Deputy Minister for Autonomy, last July, I was already drawing the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the application file for the installation of an MRI device – magnetic resonance imaging – submitted by the Condom Hospital – CHC – to the regional health agency – ARS – in Occitanie. This dossier meets all the criteria of the terms of reference of the call for projects, whether it concerns the balance and territorial mesh, the medical organisation of radiologists or the activity produced. This demand will be strong because it is based on very real health needs, identified on the territory in particular by city doctors, who have confirmed the importance of using MRI technology to complete their diagnosis. This equipment would also respond to community-based care needs and avoid neglect, a goal that, like the territorial grid, is part of the strategy of the PRS – regional health plan – and the SROS – regional health organisation scheme – of the RSA, in terms of heavy material equipment. However, the centralization of all the Gers devices in Auch does not allow for a mesh and a balance of care provision, as mentioned in PRS-SROS. By installing an MRI device in Condom, new radiologists would also be attracted. Two of them thus gave their commitment in the event of acceptance of the file. Otherwise, CHC would lose a radiologist, present on site every day. If the institution has strong prospects thanks to commitments from radiologists and a strong convention, this device would be an added value for other healthcare professionals. The hospital estimates that it would experience the same progression of activity as for the scanner. While initially the number of daily examinations with the scanner was estimated at twenty, it amounts to thirty-five after three years of operation, which means that Condom is known, recognized and solicited. Deputy Minister, I hope that all of these arguments will convince you of the importance of installing MRI equipment in Condom for our territory and for our people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u22	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u23	You are asking me about the application file for the installation of an MRI device filed by the Condom Hospital, during the period opened by the ARS Occitanie to obtain a scanner and an MRI device, from June 15 to August 15, 2020. In parallel, another installation request was made for MRI equipment at the hospital in Auch. These possibilities for authorization of cutting imaging apparatus had been registered, for the Gers, in the context of an exceptional need, with the aim of securing the operation of the imaging of the department following the difficulties of governance of the economic interest group which manages, on behalf of the hospital centre in Auch, the clinic in Gascogne and a group of liberal radiologists, the only cutting imaging apparatus installed in the city of Auch, namely a scanner and an MRI device. The decree of 28 May 2020 fixed the exceptional requirements for heavy equipment in Occitanie according to two objectives of the regional health project. The first is to prioritize new assignments based on their support of highly demanding imaging activities, authorized emergency medical care and neurology. The second objective is to promote, for new settlements, the creation or strengthening of complete and diversified trays. The MRI installed in Gers will thus be designed to serve its entire population and to best meet the needs of the territorial grid, taking into account the heavy equipment installed at the boundaries of this department. For example, regarding the demand for Condom's living pool, the supply available in the city of Agen, where several MRI devices are installed, will be considered. The specialized committee for the organization of care in the Occitanie region, which met on September 21st, gave a very favourable opinion on the installation of MRI at the hospital in Auch, compared to CHC. However, the Director General of the ARS Occitanie noted the important and relevant activity of the scanner installed at the Condom Hospital, whose place and role in the territory is well known. It will issue its decision no later than May 22nd, ensuring the best access to medical imaging in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u24	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u25	Madam Deputy Minister, you understand that I cannot be satisfied with this answer. Nor can it satisfy the teams of the Condom Hospital, which was allowed to work for several months to prepare a file, although it was known from the outset that the request would be refused, given the situation of Gers in general and the hospital in Auch in particular. It's not right, and it's unfair. I am thinking of the 46,000 inhabitants of this health territory who depend on the Condom hospital and who, if I understand correctly, will have to pass their MRI to Agen. I confess that this answer leaves me dubious and very disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u26	Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux has the floor to put his question, No. 1138, on the consequences of Brexit on French fishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u27	We have less than forty days left to reach an agreement with London. In the absence of a compromise on fisheries before 31 December, we will see WTO rules – the World Trade Organisation – apply, synonymous with high tariffs and customs controls for businesses, with the risk of a platform for re-exporting to the continent some foreign products that would not be subject to any quota or customs duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u29	Brittany accounts for 40% to 45% of French fisheries, a sector that is one of the engines of the regional economy. With 1180 boats, Breton fishing accounts for 27% of the mainland's vessels. In the absence of agreement, this maritime territory will be halved. The losses would then be considerable for the 4990 fishermen and their families. In Brittany, the seafood sector has a total of 16500 jobs, of which 1000 are on land, distributed mainly between the mareyage and the food industries. In my constituency in Saint-Malo, the majority of fishermen work in the waters of Jersey under the Granville Agreement signed in 2000. If they were recovered from Britain, Jersey could take over and distribute fee-for-fishing rights. Two or three additional hours of navigation would then be required to go fishing. Moreover, the port of Saint Malo would no longer be strategic for armaments. The challenge to the access of Breton fishermen to British waters so fishy would have a disastrous impact on our regional economy, our fishermen and their families, as well as on the renewal of the fleet and generations. Mr Secretary of State, should we prepare for a reduction in fishing opportunities for Europeans in British waters from 31 December? If so, what support measures would be taken for this sector? And in case of agreement, do you think that access can remain exactly the same?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u30	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u31	Mr President, the question that you are asking is extremely sensitive, a few weeks from a crucial deadline: the United Kingdom will indeed leave the European Union on 31 December – that is our only certainty today. France, like all 27 European countries, has defended several priorities in this negotiation, including the preservation of access to British waters for our fishermen. Having not had to speak in the British referendum, they do not have to be the variable of adjustment and sacrificed them, as the President of the Republic has repeatedly pointed out. As I speak to you, I am reasonably optimistic about the possibility of concluding an agreement. I insist on one essential point: there will be no agreement on the future relationship with the United Kingdom, which does not include stable and sustainable access to British waters in the fisheries sector. It is obvious that we will not sacrifice this sector. However, we are preparing for all scenarios. In the case of a non-agreement, which would result in a denial of access to British waters, financial support is provided by the European Union and France. However, this is not the scenario we want to see realized because we all know the consequences. That is why, while defending our principles and priorities, we are working hard to reach an agreement that preserves maximum access to British waters over time. With regard to the Anglo-Norman Islands of Jersey and Guernsey, we are looking for ways to preserve, in one case, and to secure, in the other, access to the waters as they exist today, because we know that these two areas are particularly important for our fishermen, especially Bretons. Be sure of the Government's commitment to ensure in all cases the protection of the interests of our country and of the industry as a whole, and to guarantee, I insist on this point, stable, sustainable and as complete access by our fishermen to British waters as from 1 January, including the waters of the Anglo-Norman Islands that you rightly referred to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u33	Thank you for that answer, Secretary of State, but still understand the concerns of fishermen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u35	... while they have been fortunate to be able to work in this area for centuries. It is difficult to understand the lack of agreement when the United Kingdom needs it more than we do, since half of its exports are to the European Union. If the agreement is stumbling down on the problem of fishing, I do not understand why the British do not accept our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u36	Fishing is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u37	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to put her question, No. 1129, on juvenile justice in the Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u38	Mr Keeper of the Seals, I would like to ask you about local justice, especially that concerning children. In one of your first interviews as a minister, you stated in the Sunday Journal: "I want to reconcile the French with their justice, to restore their confidence. That's why I'm talking about community justice. I propose that, in certain parts of the territory, or in particular cases, the judge be moved rather than the defendant. It is the Member of Parliament for one of these territories who is questioning you today. The Allier has the peculiarity of being a tricephalous department since it consists of three judicial courts, respectively in Moulins, Montluçon and Cusset – close to Vichy. The geography of this department has had a very important influence on the organization of justice. Thus, the children's judge is based in Moulins, more than 50 kilometres from the judicial district of Vichy, even though the latter accounts for more than 40% of his activity – 40% from the district of Montluçon and only 20% from that of Moulins. Such an organization has a direct impact on the right to defend families: a number of them simply give up moving to Moulins – sometimes lawyers bring them to court by carpooling. I am sure that you agree with me that such a situation is unbearable in 2020. We are at a time of budgetary debate, and I have noted that within the "Justice" mission, the "Development of access to law and the local judicial network" action has increased by almost 10%. It is also stated in the annual performance project of this mission that "the year 2021 will be that of local justice". But these are not additional appropriations that I ask, Mr. keeper of the seals: the children's judge must be able to move from Moulins to the judicial district of Vichy and possibly, since the situation is the same, until Montluçon. I know re-establishing carnival hearings isn't that simple, but isn't that an option? Mr. Keeper of the Seals, will 2021 be the year of local justice for families in the Vichy Basin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u39	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u40	Yes, Madam Member of Parliament, 2021 will be the year of local justice. You were right to remind me, I said I wish the French were closer to their justice and I will do everything in my power to ensure that this statement is in line with the reality to come. You wanted to draw my particular attention to the organisation of juvenile justice in the Allier department. You know that the Children's Court, under the conditions laid down in the Ordinance of 2 February 1945, deals with offences committed by minors, as well as crimes committed by those under the age of 16. The juvenile judge, for his part, deals with offences and fifth-class offences committed by all minors and is also competent in matters of educational assistance, legal protection for emancipated minors or adults up to the age of 21, as well as in any judicial measure to assist in the management of the family budget. The list of these courts and their jurisdiction is set out in the Code of Judicial Organisation. The territorial jurisdiction of the juvenile judge therefore corresponds to that of the juvenile court. As of January 1, 2020, there were 155 children's courts, including 11 overseas – seven in departments and four in overseas communities. The Children's Court of Moulins is competent throughout the Allier department. You have rightly recalled that its geographical jurisdiction covers those of the judicial courts of Cusset, Montluçon and of course Moulins. There are three localized positions – one children's judge and two vice-presidents in the Children's Court – that are currently filled. It should be noted that during 2020, particular attention was paid to the staff of this court in order to fill all the localized positions since one of the vice-president positions, which had been vacant for one year, was filled in annual transparency 2020 for an effective arrival on 1 September last, and that of a juvenile judge filled in replacement by the assignment of a judicial auditor who had taken up his duties on the same day. Furthermore, it should be noted that the staff of prosecutors are also all filled in the three judicial courts of Allier. While it is not possible to determine precisely the judicial activity of the department on the basis of geographical considerations such as yours, it is nevertheless true that this department has a location of three judicial posts in accordance with the evolution of its activity. In fact, over a five-year period, from 2015 to 2019, the number of new cases – + 86% – and the measures taken or renewed – + 32% – increased significantly, while the criminal activity of the juvenile judge and the juvenile court remained relatively stable in both new cases – - 1% – and minors presented – - 5%. As a result of the search for a balance between the requirement of good administration and the need for proximity, which is an increasingly important requirement in the area of juvenile justice, the judicial map of the children's courts thus allows for a coverage of the territory adapted to the singularities of the matter. Several mechanisms of judicial organisation introduced by the regulatory power allow, in parallel with the establishment of the courts, to strengthen the proximity of the courts. Courts, especially juvenile courts, may hold fairground hearings on all municipalities within their jurisdiction. It is therefore for your department, the head of the court – in this case the Court of Appeal of Riom – to set such hearings, according to local needs, in order to encourage the follow-up of minors and to strengthen the presence of the judicial institution where necessary. I hope I have answered your question completely, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u41	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor for a brief statement because the time is already well overrun.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u42	I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification and therefore to draw closer to the Riom Chief of Court to discuss this matter with her. I am thinking of these children and their families who are having difficulty accessing justice today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u43	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor to put her question, No. 1137, concerning the prison in Nîmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u44	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, as you know, the prison density of the Nîmes prison on 1 January 2020 exceeded 200%, i.e. 400 prisoners for 200 places. Overpopulation affects both the men's and women's quarters, where forty-two inmates share twenty-four places, a rate much higher than the national average. The capacity-building scheme was initiated two years ago, as part of the prison plan, which provided for the establishment of 120 places in the prison, as well as 500 places in a new facility by 2027. Although renovation and extension work began well in 2021 in Nîmes, the project to build the new prison is now faced with multiple obstacles, in particular related to its initial settlement in the Alesian territory. Many hypotheses have been put forward to overcome these obstacles, but all are quite far from the general interest – the interests of the detainees, since 85% of them fall under the jurisdiction of the judicial courts of Nîmes, the interests of the families, who obviously visit their relatives, the interests of the police forces, particularly exposed during the numerous transfer operations forty-five kilometres away, in the north of the department, but also the interests of the prison staff. As no project has been completed so far, it is necessary to respond to the urgency and to choose a site to ensure greater coherence in the course of detention and, above all, the proximity of all the judicial institutions concerned, knowing that they are rather located in the Nîmes territory. We can't wait any longer. It is about respect for human rights, in this case violated, for a long time, and about the safety of all: the conditions of imprisonment in this prison are extremely degrading and disrespectful of the rights of both staff and their relatives, and of the detainees themselves and their families. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, what is your assessment of the progress made in the construction of this new prison in the Gard, a project that could only be welcomed at the outset?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u45	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u46	You are right, these are human tragedies, caused by often unacceptable conditions of detention. The Constitutional Council has issued a decision which obliges us, and which joins the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and of course that of the European Court of Human Rights. The Nîmes prison has been overcrowded for many years. Its occupancy rate was 192% as of 1 November 2020: fifty and one mattress on the ground... However, this rate is down from a peak of 230% in March 2018, representing seventy-five mattresses on the ground. A little consolation. After the health crisis, the situation of the institution was even a little better than today, with a prison density of 181 per cent at the beginning of June. The occupancy rate of detention centres under the jurisdiction of the Interregional Directorate of Prison Services in Toulouse is higher than the national average. As of 1 November 2020, it stood at 157 per cent, compared with 115 per cent for France as a whole. They are therefore the subject of special vigilance on the part of my services. In view of the existing imbalances between prison regions with regard to institutional capacity, the Toulouse Interregional Directorate has a drawing right of 413 places which allows it to assign convicted prisoners to six other interregional directorates. I have therefore asked the interregional management of Toulouse to make maximum use of this faculty. We have raised this issue no later than last week and today all of these places are well occupied. In addition, in the case of the Nîmes prison, removal operations – forgiveness for this word – are also organized towards establishments in the Marseilles and Lyons regions. Pending these regular transfers of detained persons, they may transit through the detention centres of the inter-regional reception authorities. This option is also used to reduce the number of staff accommodated in Nîmes. In addition, the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice provides for the construction of forty-nine institutions. Thus, in Nîmes, a mechanism to increase the capacity of the prison, which would increase from 200 to 350 places, was entrusted in 2018 to the Public Agency for the Real Estate of Justice. The contract was notified on 17 August 2020 and work will begin in the first half of 2021, for delivery of the 150 additional seats within two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u47	Thank you, Mr. Keeper of Seals. I'm sorry, but the exercise is very time-consuming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u48	[[Smile]] I didn't know that, but I think I've answered Mrs Dumas completely and I'm going to shut up immediately!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u49	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u50	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u51	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to speak on his question No 1128 on the social, economic and health crisis in the Seine-Maritime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u52	A few weeks away from Christmas and the end-of-year celebrations, the golden, brilliant, flashing advertisements of the great fragrances invade our screens. In the midst of these spots that value eternal youth, beauty, luxury, calmness and voluptuousness, glass bottles compete with brilliance and shape. The work to make these perfume boxes, 70% produced in my home in the Glass Valley, the glass valley, is paid 1 euro per bottle when the advertising represents 25, or the margin of the mark 15 euros. A euro, agree, it's very little. Yet behind this prize is an extraordinary field, symbol of the workers' know-how of the "made in France". However, this sector has been hit for months, weakened by the health crisis, with markets falling by 40%. In this context, how can we understand that great names of French luxury can still shop abroad and order 200 million euros of perfumes abroad for a few cents of gain per bottle – I say a few cents – of invisible cents for the consumer who will spend 100 euros on an average perfume? So, more than ever, it is necessary, in the face of the risk of social plans and performance agreements harmful to the employees who loom in our factories, to play the map of industrial sovereignty, industrial patriotism. I'm not afraid of that word. Repatriate all or part of these 200 million euros of external orders is possible. We wrote it to the President of the Republic, we wrote it with the CGT trade union of glassmakers and the elected representatives, and I asked the Government here on the subject two weeks ago. The 70 communes of the Bresle Valley deliberated one after the other to formulate the same request, simple, concrete: gather very quickly, LVMH, L'Oréal, Yves Rocher and the other French donors! Bring them together with all the players in the flasking industry for a consultation on the measures to be taken to give content to this industrial patriotism, to avoid redundancies, to avoid downward pressure on prices, to preserve the working conditions of glassmakers, to preserve the know-how of the Glass valley. Do it, and so join the words on industrial sovereignty. I ask you the question solemnly, Madam Secretary of State responsible for the social economy, solidarity and responsibility: will you take this initiative that will not threaten the health of French luxury groups or the dividends of their shareholders and will not cost the public authorities anything? We are waiting, you will understand, for a precise and simple answer: the meeting of the actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u53	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u54	I know that you regularly discuss this issue with Bruno Le Maire but also with Agnès Pannier-Runacher – whom you recently questioned during questions to the Government, you just mentioned it. Everyone recognizes your involvement in this case. The Bresle Valley industry territory, also known as "Glass valley", contains, you have recalled, historical know-how of which it alone has the secret in the production of glass and in this case perfume bottles. During her visit on September 4th – you were also present – Deputy Minister Agnès Pannier-Runacher presented the Industrial Investment Acceleration Fund in the territories. This fund allows to accompany the two major companies of this territory of industry that she visited: Pochet du Courval and Verescence. The Government supports these companies because, as you know, they have both received state subsidies of up to €800,000 under the Industrial Investment Acceleration Fund in the territories. We would also like to contribute to the acceleration of other projects in the Bresle Valley industry area, related to the skills or the glass town of Nesle-Normandeuse. The subsidies of the France Recovery plan will make it possible to finance in practice the modernisation of enterprises, thanks to the purchase of new furnaces, and to save energy. The Government intends to ensure the solidarity of the major industry groups in the luxury sector with SMEs and mid-size enterprises in the Glass Valley. Indeed, in addition to the obvious economic reasons for this industrial patriotism to which you call, Mr. Jumel, these companies make a major contribution to the luxury sector's ability to spread its unique creations and products around the world. The Government has therefore approached the Vice-President of the National Industry Council, Philippe Varin, as well as the Chairs of the Strategic Sector Committees, in order to ensure that commitments are made quickly. With regard to the Glass Valley, large orders were asked to make concrete commitments to supply in France. In addition, the actors of the Cosmetic Valley are meeting today and the Federation of Beauty Companies – FEBEA – has scheduled a meeting on December 1st to take stock of the mutual commitments, the gaps, but also the actions to be carried out jointly. I am confident that this approach will succeed in the coming weeks, in line with the commitments made by the industry. This is part of the broader work with the National Procurement Council. You can therefore count on the Government, which will remain attentive to this issue and will continue negotiations with the pipeline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u55	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u56	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the quality of this answer. I am pleased to see that industrial development projects are accompanied by the recovery plan. I had argued in this direction and I am pleased that concrete actions are now being considered. I also welcome the fact that two meetings are scheduled. The 200 million euros of orders programmed abroad remain: what part of them will be repatriated to France? I'm counting on you to tell us quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u57	Mrs Monique Limon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1131, concerning aids to manufacturers of professional kitchens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u58	Madam Secretary of State in charge of the social economy, solidarity and responsibility, the Covid-19 is a formidable enemy, which we have been fighting for several months. After the short lull that followed confinement, we are now facing a second, more violent wave. Prioritizing health while saving the economy is a difficult balancing exercise. I therefore welcome the courage and political responsibility of the Government in the face of the seriousness of the situation. With regard to the economic situation, Decree No 2020-1328 of 2 November 2020, published in the Official Journal of 3 November, expands the so-called S1 bis list of sectors affected by the new enhanced State support measures. This list now includes the industrial sector of professional kitchen equipment manufacturers. This is excellent news, which the professionals thank you very much. Three Iseroese companies in this sector, two of which are located in my constituency, are asking me about their eligibility for these enhanced state support measures and, in particular, the state's 100% coverage of the partial unemployment paid to employees. Beyond these companies in the Iserois territory, more than 60 companies in France, mostly TPEs and SMEs that make reference around the world, are highly dependent on the catering sector for their business. Companies located in my electoral district whose business is related to the catering trade have demonstrated adaptability and agility since the beginning of the crisis in order to maintain as much as possible the activity of their production units. So far, they have succeeded in avoiding the use of state support mechanisms. However, their current activity does not allow them to generate sufficient turnover to pay the structural costs. Moreover, this virtuous conduct, which I would like to welcome, penalizes them today because it does not meet the criterion of receiving 100% of the partial activity of their employees, i.e. a loss of turnover of more than 80%. Despite the efforts made, these companies, which are heavily dependent on the catering trades, are therefore facing serious difficulties. Order books are in dull and do not offer a favourable economic outlook for the coming months. Madam Secretary of State, in view of the difficulties of these TPEs and of these SMEs, as well as the high uncertainty about their future, could the threshold for loss of turnover eligible for 100 % of the partial activity be lowered to 50 %, whereas, despite their efforts, they are experiencing a sharp slowdown in activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u59	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u60	You are asking me, Mrs Limon, about the problems encountered by companies in the industrial sector of professional kitchen equipment manufacturers. The Government wished to adapt the list of companies eligible for the Solidarity Fund. Companies specialising in the manufacture of professional kitchen equipment are now eligible when at least 50% of their turnover is made with one or more catering companies. For the month of November, companies which are not subject to a public reception ban and which are included in this list are eligible for the Solidarity Fund, i.e. aid capped at EUR 10000, subject to compliance with the eligibility criteria. The company must justify, thanks to a trusted third-party accountant, having achieved at least 50% of its turnover with one or more enterprises in the catering sector. As a reminder, the Solidarity Fund aims to help the smallest companies affected by the crisis, particularly because of their sector of activity. This mechanism is very regularly adapted to take into account the various economic consequences of the health crisis. It is therefore a tool constantly designed and adapted to meet the difficulties you mentioned and the situation of small businesses. Under the new health rules for confinement in November, all enterprises with fewer than 50 employees, irrespective of their turnover and sector of activity, which started their activities before 30 September 2020, are therefore eligible for the Solidarity Fund if their activity is prohibited from receiving the public or they have lost at least 50 % of their turnover. Depending on the situation, the aid received can amount to up to EUR 10000.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u61	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u62	I would like to thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for the clarifications that I am going to have to communicate to the companies concerned, unfortunately very badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u63	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor to raise her question, No. 1132, concerning the company Gifrer-Barbezat in Décines-Charpieu.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u64	The company Gifrer-Barbezat, a real dévinois institution, created in 1912, is now in danger. Purchased in 2000 by the Belgian Qualiver group, the site will close all its production workshops and remove 125 jobs, in accordance with a decision announced by the owner last September. This decision is not only unjustified, but also particularly serious for France's strategic interests. Unjustified because the Décines-Charpieu site is profitable, as evidenced by the steady increase in turnover since 2013. Grave for the strategic interests of France, because the company Gifrer-Barbezat participates in the health independence of our country. It specializes in the production of sterile doses of antiseptics, infant care products and plant extracts. Large French pharmaceutical laboratories are also supplying themselves with plant extracts from Gifrer and are concerned about the announcement of this closure, since no other manufacturer of these products exists to date in France and they will therefore be obliged, in the long term, to turn to Chinese or Indian manufacturers. In this year marked by the health crisis linked to covid-19, the company Gifrer-Barbezat has proven to be all the more essential as it produces three of the components of the official antiseptic of the World Health Organization. As such, the Regional Health Agency – ARS – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes ranked it among the three companies manufacturing essential products. The Qualiver Group's decision to close this production site is incomprehensible, if not unacceptable, knowing all the more that the site is located on a land property of twelve hectares in the centre of Décines-Charpieu and that a project to rebuild the production lines of three hectares, financed through the transfer of part of the land, was still envisaged last July. Despite the confinement, the job security plan is maintained. In view of the strategic nature of production, it is essential that the State intervene in the ongoing discussions. Madam Secretary of State, what does the Government intend to do about this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u65	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u66	Madam Member, by your question, you call the attention of the Government to the situation of the company Gifrer-Barbezat, located in Décines-Charpieu, in the Rhône department, while its owner, the Belgian Qualiver group, announced on 22 September the abolition of 125 jobs and the closure of all production workshops. This company specializes in the production of pharmaceutical products such as oleocalcary liniment, physiological serum, antiseptics and oxygenated water. She was asked in many ways during the health crisis, in particular to produce hydro-alcoholic gel for all French people. This is why, in fact, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes ARS ranked it among the three companies making essential products during the first wave of the covid epidemic -19. The objective of State independence and health sovereignty mobilizes the Government. We have devoted significant resources to the call for relocating the stimulus plan to address the fragility of some global value chains. This scheme has a budget of EUR 100 million for 2020 and also covers the key health sector. Mrs Cazarian, the Government is paying full attention to the question you are referring to, that of the know-how of this type of specific activity in France. The issue is currently being studied at the sector level, together with the economic services of the State in the region as well as the enterprise, employment and economy of the regional direction of enterprises, competition, consumption, labour and employment, in terms of both industrial and employment aspects. We will ensure that the closure and the plan to safeguard the employment of the company Gifrer-Barbezat does not constitute a real estate transaction for the benefit of the Qualiver group, which would retain the brand Gifrer-Barbezat while selling the land. The question of the requalification of land in the local planning plan is raised here. Local authorities shall ensure, through urban planning rules, that the balance between residential and employment areas is not altered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u67	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u68	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Secretary of State. The case of the company Gifrer-Barbezat demonstrates, in fact, that mechanisms of opportunity are at work, undoubtedly guided by financial interests. There is a major risk to France's strategic interests and to the socio-economic situation of the families concerned. Let us hope that the social plan and job losses can be avoided and that the dialogue between trade unions and management is renewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u69	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor to put her question, No. 1144, concerning the areas of activity in the Rhône.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u70	In the eighth district of the Rhone, the former flagship territory of the textile industry, several projects of areas of activity are being stopped. The area of activity of the SMADEOR – a joint union of planning studies and economic development of the Rhodanian west –, managed by a joint union composed of the Rhodanian west agglomeration community – COR – and the community of communes of the Land of Arbresle, and the area of activity Actival, launched by the COR, illustrate in themselves the difficulties faced by economic actors and local authorities. These lands, concentrated mainly around National Highway 7 and Highway 89, are adapted to the economic development of a rural territory with rugged topography. Moreover, they are identified within territorial coherence schemes as devolved to economic development. The Chambre d'Agriculture du Rhône has given its agreement that they should be converted into areas of activity. The development that is carried out there preserves and preserves existing ecological corridors and wetlands. Despite the many requests for local companies to expand, these two areas remain blank from any industrial establishment due to various constraints that have arisen since 2012. Unfortunately, the signing of the Roanne-Tarare territory contract on 27 January 2020 remains ineffective. For example, the State services categorically refuse to connect the Active Zone 2 to the RN7, on a portion of the road that does not prevent the realization of secure access. In the SMADEOR area, an archaeological excavation obligation, at a cost of 1.2 million euros on land where excavations had already been carried out before the project was launched in 2013, further increases the time and costs, in complete contradiction with the speech on the urgency of economic recovery and the necessary relocation of industrial activities. In an area where housing is the main vehicle for the artificialisation of soils, the only rehabilitation of existing wastelands is not enough for creativity and the sustainable establishment of businesses and jobs. Without the prospect of development in these areas of activity, several local companies wishing to expand could permanently leave our territory. Apart from the economic emergency, such projects should not suffer from recurring uncertainties and blockages for eight years. These areas of activity now require a clear commitment from State services, consistent with the Government's objective of industrial relocation and recovery. Madam Secretary of State, what solutions can you offer us today to implement these projects, in accordance with the spirit of the recovery policy you want to pursue?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u71	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u72	You are asking me about the difficulties facing the Rhodanian West in the development of several areas of economic activity in the vicinity of RN7 and A89. First of all, it is important to recall that these difficulties do not result from a lack of due diligence on the part of the State services; They are part of a relatively strong political context of local opposition to settlement projects promoted by local elected officials and companies. This is particularly the case, as you pointed out, of the logistics implementation project on the SMADEOR area of activity, for which an environmental authorization was issued by the State after instruction and public investigation. The project is confronted with the persistent opposition of a local collective and an appeal has been filed; He's in the process of being treated by the courts. Beyond this very particular case, the Government is taking a determined and determined step towards the reindustrialization of our country, in particular to facilitate new industrial settlements. On the basis of the report submitted by MP Guillaume Kasbarian, a roadmap for the acceleration of industrial settlements is being implemented. The objective is clear: industrialists who want to build new factories in France must be able to do so within reliable and controlled deadlines, and with the support of the State services. Facilitating industrial settlements and relocations is also the subject of the recovery plan. On 19 November, we announced with Agnes Pannier-Runacher the selection of thirty-one first relocation projects, which represent a total of 680 million euros of productive investments in our territory, including 140 million of state support. This development must be carried out in a manner consistent with our environmental commitments, and in particular with respect for the fight against soil artificialisation. That is why the Government is also devoting 300 million of the stimulus plan to a specific fund for the rehabilitation of wasteland, which will, inter alia, allow the recycling of former areas of activity left behind in order to accommodate new economic activities that are more job-creating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u73	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u74	I hear your arguments, but you must take into account the concerns of our territories and the great difficulties we face. Some projects were launched several years ago but do not succeed, while everything has been done in the standards and followed carefully by the communities! The wasteland is one thing, but we must be able to develop the activity of our territories. It is important that the State services, and in particular the Government, are at our side to facilitate industrial facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u75	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to put his question, No. 1145, on France's logistical expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u76	In March 2016, the National Logistics Commission, set up by the then ministers of the economy and environment, Emmanuel Macron and Ségolène Royal, submitted a proposal for a strategy entitled "France Logistique 2025", presented to the Council of Ministers in the wake. It is based on five pillars: France, a global reference; human capital; Digital acceleration; logistics as a lever for transforming industrial policies and energy transition; Integrated governance. Logistics is an essential link in the merchant circuit and a vital organ for the functioning of our society; We measure it even more during the social and economic crises that we are going through. The weakness of our logistical expertise is highlighted in General Lizurey's report, which carried out an audit mission on the management of the health crisis. The lack of digitisation of our economy, particularly with regard to the TPEs, SMEs and businesses, is underlined by the Minister of the Economy Bruno Le Maire. Yet the acceleration of digitisation was one of the major axes of the France Logistics 2025 strategy that I have just mentioned. On March 24, seven days after France's confinement, I asked the Government a clear question: "Is it not urgent to appoint an expert dedicated to logistics with the Prime Minister [...] in order to redefine organizational priorities and ensure crisis management and reconstruction to come? » The Minister of Health told me that this was not necessary. However, on 1 November 2020, an announcement published in the Official Gazette specified that the Government was looking for its "Head of the Crisis Planning and Management Department", responsible for "coordinating the inter-ministerial crisis management within the Inter-Ministerial Crisis Centre". The Government could not express more clearly the need for logistics. Madam Secretary of State, can you clarify the Government's strategy for logistical expertise, both to manage the health crisis and to enable France to regain economic power and protect its small and medium-sized enterprises and local businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u77	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u78	You are asking me about the Government's logistics expertise strategy, both to manage the health crisis and to accelerate economic recovery. The frame is set. Indeed, the transport and logistics sector, with 200 billion euros in turnover and 1.8 million jobs, is a pillar of our economy. It has been mobilized at the forefront in the management of the health crisis, in particular to deliver our medical equipment and to supply our supermarkets. Its competitiveness is an extension of that of our industry, of which it is inseparable. Contrary to what can sometimes be heard, the logistics industry can be a formidable lever of environmental transition, thanks to the optimisation of goods flows or the diffusion of more sober and cleaner modes of distribution. The Government has joined these professionals, including carriers, in the early stages of the crisis by taking measures to support the cash flow, in particular the accelerated reimbursement of the domestic consumption tax on energy products. He has also engaged in partnership with the professional logistics organisations, grouped together as you know under the auspices of the new association France Logistique, chaired by Mrs Anne-Marie Idrac. It is a matter of taking a winback approach to logistics performance since, as you point out, France is in this field distanced by its European neighbours. A package of measures will be announced before the end of the year within the framework of the Interdepartmental Committee on Logistics, in the presence of the Associate Minister of Industry, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, and the Associate Minister of Transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebbari. These measures will benefit all the logistic modes of transport and should enable this sector – strategic, it should be recalled – to start on a path of competitiveness and digital and environmental transition. They will be announced soon and will be launched by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u79	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u80	We therefore discover that France will finally consider the logistics dimension to be a lever of performance, while we are in the midst of a social and economic crisis. I repeat, I very much regret that, on 24 March, Minister Olivier Véran replied to questions to the Government that there were no needs in this area. Your own response and the committee that will meet within a few days clearly show what is happening. More than two years ago, I asked the same question and got the same answer. Madam Secretary of State, it was not you who answered...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u81	No, it couldn't be me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u82	...and so it is to the Government that I address myself through you. I believe that the crisis that we are going through is forcing us to understand the urgency of upgrading our logistics and re-engineering our expertise within the state. It, which still existed when Emmanuel Macron was Minister of Economy, has since disappeared. You just announced an upcoming appointment; I hope he's up to it. In any event, know that I am at my disposal, as a former chairman of the National Logistics Commission, appointed at the time by the Minister of Economy Emmanuel Macron, to accompany the Government on this subject, which, as you have clearly explained, is a central element of our ability to rebuild and move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u83	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor to put his question, No. 1123, on the future of Eyrein's BorgWarner plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u84	In recent years, the automotive industry has been undergoing a transformational shift in favour of hybrid and electric vehicles. Some activities are entering a phase of decline as car manufacturers consolidate and increase the production of new types of vehicles. At the same time, these traditional activities are relocated either to the issuing countries or to the Eastern countries. Unfortunately, this has hit my department, the Corrèze. Last June, the motor vehicle manufacturer BorgWarner announced the gradual closure, by March 2022, of the plant in Eyrein in the Tulle basin, whose viable activities are being transferred to Germany and Poland. With a recent site, built with financial support from the authorities and the state for 10 million euros and employing 368 employees, BorgWarner is one of the largest private industrial establishments in Corrèze. It obviously contributes to the vitality of the Tullist economic basin. If the starting process continues, its impact will be considerable, as hundreds of families will be directly affected by job losses. There is often talk of the territories these days, but without jobs and industry, they have no future. History reminds us that the downgrading of our living areas and small towns is the result of the phenomenon of progressive deindustrialisation that has been taking place since the 1980s. Let's not forget that. At home, the closure of an industrial site of this size, nearly 400 jobs, cannot be compensated or absorbed, despite the good will of the economic world and local policies. This is why the living pools far from the metropolises, such as mine, in Corrèze, need to have even more attention and resources to enable companies to maintain and develop. As far as BorgWarner is concerned, while the social negotiation of the job security plan is under way and the search phase for a buyer has been active for several months, interesting news seems to be coming up for the site. However, I remain very cautious, as these recovery processes are complex and, in my experience, never completed before the resumption agreements are signed. The concern of the employees is strong, and pessimism must not win our territories. I know the ministers' investment on this issue and your services to keep the industry going. The recovery project we mentioned last July seems to be the best and most viable solution, because it will save jobs. Madam Secretary of State, everything necessary must be done to guarantee an industrial future at this Correzian site, so important. I would like you to clarify the announcements and news that are emerging by indicating how the state intends to facilitate, accompany and implement a project to take over, whether partial or total, this leading industrial site.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u85	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u86	You draw my attention to the situation of the BorgWarner production site in Eyrein, Tulle Basin, whose closure was announced by the group for the first quarter of 2022. This site, which employs 368 people, produces transmission solenoid valves, solenoid valve blocks and hydraulic control modules for the automotive sector. Almost 100% of its production went to only one customer, Volkswagen. This customer has gradually reduced its demand and, from 2015, sales of the site have declined; the turnover dropped and losses were found even before the crisis of the covid-19. In this context, BorgWarner has taken the decision to close Eyrein's site and to relocate – you have recalled – part of the production lines to Hungary, where the group has another site. An information and consultation procedure is under way with trade union organisations, with a view to a plan to safeguard employment. Since last June, we have been working constantly with BorgWarner to find a solution to take over the site. The State's priority is clearly to maintain industrial activity and jobs in Tulle. We are at the side of the employees, to whom we speak regularly through their union representatives, as you know, Mr. We also asked the group to look at all the tracks for maintaining or repositioning activities on the site. We have mobilized the Business France agency to launch international prospecting work. At this very moment, confidential discussions are under way with an industrialist who would be interested in resuming the site. These discussions involve the State alongside the local authorities, primarily the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region and, of course, the Tulle agglomeration. We will take all our part to accompany by all means a project of recovery if it were to be realized, which we obviously hope. As you pointed out, the electric vehicle requires other transmission modules for gearboxes; So new markets could open up for manufacturers of this type of equipment, and we very clearly hope that Tulle will benefit from it. Be assured, Mr. Jerretie, of our total determination to maintain employment in the Tulle Basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u87	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u88	Thank you for that clarification. We are very satisfied with the continuity of the work between all the actors involved, the BorgWarner company, the potential buyers, the trade unions and of course the services of Bercy and the local authorities. I would also like to take advantage of your presence to point out that our territory also has companies that are developing: I will give you a dossier concerning a company that wishes to invest several tens of millions of euros in Corrèze, and which I propose that we accompany it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u89	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 1122, on Internet access in Mayenne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u90	Recurrent and unacceptable malfunctions of unmaintained fixed telephone lines; complex, technocratic and dehumanized troubleshooting processes; repair times, if any, considerable or even ubiquitous; total incompetence of subcontractor teams in the field; lack of communication, etc. I could continue for a long time the litany of the serious inadequacies of the operator Orange, the contempt it shows in the face of the increasing difficulties and the discontent of the inhabitants of my department of Mayenne, faced with the increase of the breakdowns of their fixed line for sometimes several months. While 5G is a reality in France and we are being rid of the ears of its benefits for our daily life to come, it would be normal for today's daily life in rural areas not to be hindered by regular fixed line cuts simply because Orange does not care about its customers. Orange doesn't care about those who don't access 4G, sometimes even 3G, who can't use their mobile phone properly and therefore need their landline. Orange does not care about our seniors or the vulnerable people to whom the phone is essential to ensure their safety and break their isolation. Orange doesn't care about our artisans, our traders, our farmers. All are exasperated and angry to suffer a double sentence, being deprived of both landline and mobile phones. When and how will the Government act to ensure that Orange's CEO and his teams measure their notorious incapacity, to meet the expectations of rural people, who also have the right to access new information and communication technologies? Talking about "territories" over the course of speeches is good, but listening to them, hearing them and, above all, acting is better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u91	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u92	The Government has made the improvement of fixed digital coverage as mobile a priority in order to ensure that all French citizens, regardless of their place of residence, have access to quality coverage. At the national level, since the launch of the targeted coverage scheme in 2018, eight ministerial decrees have been taken and more than 2000 new areas to be covered by operators have been identified by local project teams. For the year 2020 alone, a new Order is being prepared and subject to public consultation. In 2021, 800 new areas will be included in ministerial orders. As far as Mayenne is concerned, under this scheme, twenty-four new mobile sites have been stopped, nine mobile sites have already been put into service for 2021 and five new mobile sites will be added to a new order. Operators must cover the area identified as a priority within a maximum of 24 months, following the publication of the decrees setting out the priority areas to be covered. The Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse monitors the obligations and publishes quarterly information on the obligations of operators on the New Deal mobile dashboard. With regard to fixed internet coverage, the France Very high-speed plan has helped to support the deployment of very high-speed Internet throughout the national territory, thanks to the mobilisation of State services, local authorities and operators. By the end of the second quarter of 2020, just over 20 million households and companies are eligible for fibre optics to the subscriber. In rural and less densely populated areas, 4 million premises are now connected to fibre optics to the subscriber. Fully aware of the expectations of communities and parliamentarians regarding the need for financial support from the State, the Government announced in February 2020 the reopening of the France Very Broadband Plan window in September 2020. He said that an additional EUR 240 million would be spent on the generalisation of fibre optics in the framework of the France Recovery Plan. In June 2020, 86000 households and companies in Mayenne had very high-speed fibre-optic access to the subscriber. Among these premises, it is necessary to distinguish between private-initiative areas of telecommunications operators and areas covered by the public initiative. [[Smile]] The whole of the evidence, Mr. Member, is thus testimony to the government's mobilization to combat the digital divide, with the aim of quickly achieving the objective of high-quality mobile coverage that we owe to everyone "in all of France", I would say, not to speak of "territories"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u93	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u94	Madam Secretary of State, you're not answering my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u95	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u96	...on Orange's inadequacies. Listen to what an inhabitant of my constituency said in a message I received this morning. She asks me to restart Orange for the restoration of her mother's landline: "My mother's line is still not restored. An Orange subcontractor went well this day, but nothing more. I also revived the mayor to support the case. In the context of confinement, our elders are suffering morally, very isolated, and the telephone and their only means of communication with others. During my visits, spaced by the kilometer distance, she cries and asks to die because she was projecting towards the next holidays of the year. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u97	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to put his question, No. 1146, on public services in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u98	I wanted to alert the Government and my colleagues to the need to preserve public services in rural areas, particularly in Corsica. Indeed, the Government has just decided on a reform that will suppress certain cash flows in Corsica, without prior consultation, while Ms. Jacqueline Gourault, whom I had questioned almost two years ago on this subject, assured me that the State would fully mobilize itself in favour of the rural territories of Corsica. The Prefect of Corsica of the time had also expressed his opposition to the plan to close the treasury. While the epidemic of covid-19 has stressed the need for the population and the island economic actors, heavily affected, to benefit from local public services, I learn that in my riding of Corse-du-Sud, the treasury of Levi, Sainte-Marie-Siche, Bonifacio and Vico will be abolished. The Haute-Corse will not be spared. These local public services will be replaced by France Services houses, which, due to the digital divide and the lack of qualifications of staff, will not be able to provide the necessary assistance and advice to local users and elected officials in the field of taxation. The President of the Republic had nevertheless committed himself to take into account the specificities of Corsica and the overseas region, in the framework of the new proximity network. This is not the case: this new network of proximity is absolutely identical to those of the continent, contrary to the spirit of the provisions of the mountain law aimed at ensuring the sustainability, quality, accessibility and proximity of public services. Therefore, as the Prefect of Corsica had committed herself, by common agreement with the elected representatives of the Corsican community, it seems necessary to set up an ad hoc committee to reflect on the organisation and implementation of state services in Corsica. Will you commit yourself to it? And, pending the establishment of this commission, do you intend to adopt a moratorium on this abolition of public services?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u99	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u100	Just over a year ago, the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – embarked on a process of modernisation of the network and geographical rebalancing of its services in the territory, in order to bring public services closer to our citizens. This new outreach network aims to strengthen the service offered to users and to better meet the needs of individuals for proximity and support. The idea is to increase the number of local receptions at national level by 30 per cent. The public finance directorates of Corse-du-Sud and Haute-Corse have recently initiated the consultation. It takes place in the framework of bilateral meetings and meetings with the presidents of communities of communes and elected representatives. Presentation meetings of the new outreach and exchange network should enable elected officials, public finance agents and users to express their expectations regarding the establishment of these new outreach services in the department. In particular with regard to the quality of the reception reserved, it should be recalled that France Services houses carry out four types of accompaniment on behalf of the partners: the provision of first-level information; contact with a specialist agent within the partner networks; the provision of digital and computer tools and support for their use; assistance in understanding and carrying out administrative procedures. More specific, more specific tax issues will continue to be addressed by FIPB officers, either in a face-to-face or as part of a remote interview with users. In France Services houses, users will find answers from DGFIP agents, as well as IT posts with internet access and the necessary support to carry out administrative procedures. To sum up, it is a matter of expanding the range of services offered to users and improving their accessibility, without making any concessions on their quality. In these circumstances, it is therefore not possible to speak of a decline in the public service. While the consultation phase on the new community network is opening up in Corsica, the projects submitted to it provide users with the possibility of access to a community reception in thirty-seven municipalities, 18 more than at present. It is, of course, still possible to develop these projects. The elected representatives are invited to take part in this positive approach to the transformation of community services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u101	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u102	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. A few days ago, I was going to meet the municipal team of Sainte-Marie-Siché. This municipality is located in my riding, in Corsica, but it could be in any other mountain territory, in Corrèze or in the Pyrenees. The municipal team is strongly mobilized. Know that to get to Ajaccio, twenty-five kilometers from there, an inhabitant without a car has to spend almost 40 euros. A few years ago, the gendarmerie was abolished and a non-functional public service house was set up: even because of the lack of confidentiality, the inhabitants of the village did not go there. Closing cash is another stab wound in the back, say the elected officials. You're talking about consultation; But it begins when the leases of cash are already terminated. I do not see where the consultation is, once all the decisions are taken and we are faced with the fait accompli! Finally, the timing of this closure is not at all appropriate. During his last visit to Corsica, the President of the Republic had spoken of a settlement on a case-by-case basis of economic situations. Without these outreach services, we're going to have a hard time dealing with all of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u103	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor to put his question, No 1135, on the poultry sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u104	As the end-of-year celebrations approach, we must welcome the commitment of all French farmers facing the health crisis. The poultry sector – particularly duck producers – has been severely affected this year due to the drastic shrinking of its distribution channels, including hotels, cafes and restaurants. Moreover, the application of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act, may have led to tensions between this sector and the large-scale distribution of products. I know you're listening to the industry. In particular, you have granted a derogation from the promotion framework, considering that producers of foie gras and festive poultry earn more than 50 % of their turnover over a period of 12 weeks. On 5 November, the epizootic risk of avian influenza by avifauna rose to the "high" level in the Gers department and 45 others, before being extended to the entire national territory. Risk does not mean contamination but precaution. With significant changes in biosecurity following the two previous crises, our producers are now ready to deal with this threat. The state, I'm sure, will be at their side. We must remember, every day if necessary, that magrets, confits and other foie gras can be consumed without moderation by our fellow citizens. We must pay due attention to this sector, which is the flagship of our agriculture and gastronomy. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention, on the one hand, to the end-of-year celebrations and, on the other hand, to the economic support of the sector affected by the health crisis. With regard to the end-of-year holidays, the derogation granted in respect of the framework of promotions introduced by the EGALIM law on festive products must be fully applied by the large and medium-sized areas. Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, what action do you intend to take with regard to large-scale distribution to strengthen the presentation of these products and to ensure their marketing through all channels that can be maintained in the health context? As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, the profession has been able to access the S1 bis list, which I thank you for. It was a legitimate demand given the strong dependence on out-of-home and festive catering. The question now arises of how to access the solidarity fund. Indeed, it is a living sector: volumes can be contracted upstream, which produces irregular revenues spread over time, or quotas of seasonal marketing for direct sale. To benefit from the solidarity fund, one must in particular have suffered a loss of 80% of turnover in the first period of confinement. However, these sectors market mostly at the end of the year, and the losses are not smoothed over time. Mr Minister, I know you are committed to these matters alongside our fine sectors, and I am committed to ensuring that our farmers are supported and consumers are reassured and encouraged to consume these exceptional products: do you think that it is possible to adapt the arrangements to the structural realities of life-cycles?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u105	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u106	I know, Mr Cazeneuve, how you support the poultry sector in your territory. The situation is indeed complex, since this sector suffers from the closure of the out-of-home restaurant and at the same time suffers the consequences of avian influenza. Currently, two homes have been identified in our country, and all health measures have been taken. This avian influenza is not transmissible to humans, either by food or by air, and I therefore invite all our fellow citizens to eat chicken, duck and eggs. There is absolutely no risk, it is essential to repeat it. With regard to support measures for the sector, the first of them was to include it in the famous list S1 bis. The question at this stage is that of the loss thresholds, since the 80% rate for life-cycles is not very effective because of the seasonality of production. We are therefore considering possible adjustments, and I have no doubt that you will be able to make proposals for amendments, possibly to be incorporated into future financial legislation. In addition to the aid granted under the S1a list, such as exemption from charges or access to the solidarity fund, we have decided to release a €3 million fund for duck, guinea fowl and other pigeon farms, which is already available. Finally, large-scale distribution has a role to play, in particular, before the end of the year, in the promotion of so-called "festive" products. It is very important to make these products visible and to put them in the spotlight. We have obtained commitments on this point and will continue to ensure that the promotion of French poultry will be ensured: once again, let's eat duck and eggs and buy for these end-of-year celebrations of festive poultry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u107	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u108	Thank you, Minister, for these very concrete answers. I will send you proposals for the adaptation of the solidarity fund. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to the Gers, one of the largest agricultural departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u109	Mrs Chantal Jourdan, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1149, concerning the electrical and agricultural phenomena.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u110	For several years, farm farms have been disrupted by electrical phenomena, particularly in my constituency of Orne. On the farms concerned, there is a change in the behaviour of the animals, which manifest ill-being and suffering. More concretely, dairy farmers see the emergence of fragility in their animals, as well as a decline in the quality and quantity of milk produced, which affects their incomes. In the face of these anomalies, farmers usually engage in forage and environmental hygiene analyses, guided by the GPSE – a permanent group for electrical safety. In most cases, the relationship between the modification of electrical installations and the occurrence of problems seems obvious. In the particular case of the affected breeder in my electoral district, the disturbance of the herd coincided with the burial of a medium voltage power line near the barn. In the face of his determination, Enedis agreed to modify his electrical installations, while leaving the work, extensive and costly, to be borne by the farmer. After a few months, the herd regained its well-being and normal production. However, the financial and human consequences of this episode are severe. The hypothesis of electrical disturbances on animals should be retained. With the rapid evolution of technologies, these phenomena are increasing. In-depth and independent studies should be carried out in order to better understand the impact of the near environment on animal health. Today, GPSE, partly funded by Enedis, lacks the independence to conduct these investigations. The correlation between the presence of certain electrical installations and the deterioration of animal health is not recognized and leaves farmers without solutions. Will in-depth studies finally be conducted to confirm the hypothesis that certain electrical installations could disrupt animal health? Could a public service not conduct them, in order to ensure their neutrality and relevance? Finally, is compensation envisaged for the losses incurred?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u112	I take very seriously the question of the impact of electromagnetic waves on farms, in the beautiful department of Orne as in the others. As soon as I arrived at the ministry, I requested a state of science on the subject from the National Food, Environment and Labour Health Security Agency – ANSES. The most comprehensive study we had in place in 2013 and, in an opinion of 28 August 2015, ANSES concludes that although rare effects have been observed in animals, it remains difficult to comment on the direct health effects of ultra-low frequency electromagnetic fields on farm animals, adding that, while the effects of parasitic currents are well known, their impact on the level of performance and health of animals in the multifactorial context of farms remains poorly known. However, beyond the question of power lines, there is also the question of the effects on wind farms. We therefore asked ANSES in 2019 for a study on wind turbines; the results are expected in mid-2021. At the same time, we must accompany the relevant research institutes and make a transparent assessment of all existing studies in order to carry out further analyses where necessary. In summary, with regard to power lines, the current state of science shows us that the risk is not characterized, while on new technologies such as wind energy science still needs to be seen. In any event, I will continue to request the necessary studies to avoid any risk or, where appropriate, to provide solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u113	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u114	Thank you for taking this issue seriously. I would also like to make sure that we do not forget the farmers who, because of proven disturbances, are in dramatic situations because, after having invested in their farm, they have to take on work related to the problems encountered. Once the effects of electrical installations have been proven, consideration should be given to compensating them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u115	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to put her question, No 1126, on the Florian Group sawmill project in Lannemezan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u116	"In these times of climate emergency, destroying the CO reservoir of forests is suicide. These words, which I make my own, are those of one of the spokespersons of the collective of 43 associations present on Sunday 11 October on the plateau of Lannemezan, in the Hautes-Pyrénées, to protest against the installation of the mega-sawmill of the Italian group Florian. The industrial group plans to operate 50,000 cubic metres per year of good quality beech logs, which will involve the slaughter of ten times more beech from the Pyrenean chain, for a period of operation of only ten years. According to the National Forestry Board, whose officers are key experts – although the Government is reducing their number incomprehensible and inconsistently in the current context – 45 per cent of this volume is not immediately available, and important work will be required: new tracks and forest roads, increased cable operations and increased road transport among others. We question the fact that the group is soliciting 60% of public subsidies for this 11 million euro project, which will generate only 25 direct jobs, which is a meagre compensation for the future ecological disaster. As the association SOS forêt Pyrénées puts it very well, the blurry on which this project is based is more of an industrial bet than a serious and solid feasibility study. On the contrary, we must maintain local and alternative management and use of our forests, where local associations and companies work hand in hand with respect for the environment. Is it indeed conceivable to imagine that the panels that will come out of the Lannemezan factory will be exported and then come back in the form of furniture? Rather than setting up a company that will degrade the environment for a period of only ten years, we believe that local companies must be empowered to invent a complete industry, from slaughter to processing, which will ensure a rational exploitation of our forest resource and create real sustainable jobs. The launch of a reflection with all the actors involved is necessary in order to draw further paths for the management of our forests. Are you ready, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, to stop this project and to implement in a planned way, a sustainable and job-providing French wood industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u117	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u118	Madam Member, I know your commitment to your territory and to these subjects that you are passionately defending. My answer will be positive and negative. Positive first, because I agree with you that sustainable forest management is needed; negative, because I will not suspend this project. Yes, therefore, sustainable forest management is needed. The forest is protected and cultivated. In France, 50% of forest growth is cultivated each year, which means that the forest is growing. At the same time, however, we import wood at the cost of a huge trade deficit. This pattern where the forest progresses and where the wood recedes, that is, where we continue to import wood massively, is neither sustainable nor sustainable nor acceptable. This wood, we import it either in raw form, or in the form of furniture or sawn boards, in return for the beech logs that we send abroad. It is therefore imperative to develop a sustainable management path, which implies, first of all, restocking, where necessary, and then reconciling upstream and downstream. This reconciliation between the upstream and downstream goes through the production tool, which brings us back to the Lannemezan sawmill. In my view, there is a very positive aspect to this project, since it is a matter of investing in a downstream production tool – which does not mean we are abandoning the existing tools – which will help to consolidate the local culture of beech. We have the political will to invest in the sector and to modernise it, which can only be done if the local actors concerned are assured of the sustainable management of the forest. In view of the questions raised by this project, a study-concertation should start in January 2021 in order to address the various concerns. Yes it is necessary to protect the forest and cultivate it, yes it is necessary to reconcile the upstream and downstream of the field, which requires investment in the production tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u119	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u120	Thank you for your answer, but we can act at the French level without the need for the intervention of a foreign group – in this case Italian, but that is not the question. We are able to develop reasoned management in the Pyrenees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u121	Mrs Brigitte Liso, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 1133, concerning the extension of the Belgian plant Clarebout Potatoes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u122	The extension of the Belgian plant Clarebout Potatoes, which specializes in the production of deep-frozen fries, is an ecological concern. It aims to build and operate a second freezer, the size of which is 138 metres long, 81 metres wide and 32 metres high, in the Belgian commune of Comines-Warneton, opposite the village of Deûlémont, on the French side. This facility would complement the operation of a first freezer, which had already given rise to many negative reactions. Indeed, many local residents, elected officials and associations have mobilized against the multiple damage caused by the Belgian factory: among the most notable are fires, fatal accidents at work, fat discharges directly into the Lys and other environmental problems. In May 2020 alone, eighty-seven cases of nuisance, noise or olfactory were found in the plant sector. Faced with this situation, several Belgian and French elected representatives strongly opposed this extension, which would involve the development of a concrete port platform located in a wetland. The project would be financed by the European Union, through the ERDF – the European Regional Development Fund – while other projects supported by the ERDF aim to promote natural spaces on the French side: there is inconsistency! In addition, it should be noted that the lack of environmental consideration led to two major refusals against Clarebout Potatoes: the first from the Wallonia public service in December 2014 and the second from the North Prefecture, thus from the State, in July 2017. Despite these refusals, the second freezer project is expected to materialize in the coming months, which I regret. What is the Government's position on this issue, which concerns, beyond my constituency, the entire cross-border territory? This is about the credibility of the European Union in terms of environmental strategy and the coherence of public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u123	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u124	Madam Member, you interviewed Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition, who cannot be present and asked me to answer you. The proposed extension of the Clarebout industrial site to Comines-Warneton, Belgium, has given rise to numerous exchanges between the French and Belgian authorities since the first refusal, formulated by the Belgian authorities, by order of 8 November 2017. The French authorities, consulted under the Espoo Convention, had already given an unfavourable opinion. The Clarebout Potatoes de Comines-Warneton site operates a freezer of large dimensions – 30 meters high for 80 meters wide – which, since the company's inception, generates mainly olfactory and sound nuisances. The site extension project provides for the construction of a second freezer. The Walloon Minister of the Environment had indicated on 13 November 2017 that the position of the Belgian authorities could be reviewed with the development of river transport. The new dossier, presented by Clarebout on 20 November 2018 and completed in June 2019, was the subject, at the request of the Prefect du Nord, of a new public consultation, between 8 July and 5 August 2019, in the French communes of Deûlémont, Frelinghien and Comines, due to the potential impact of the project on French territory. The 177 observations made by the public, the three municipalities and the State services were unanimously unfavourable. Therefore, on 9 September 2019, the Northern Prefect again issued an unfavorable opinion on the proposed installation of the second freezer, highlighting the shortcomings of the file, particularly with regard to discharges to the Lys and impacts on wetlands, as well as questions of floods and fires. The Belgian city of Comines-Warneton notified on 24 September 2019 a decree refusing the building permit. An action was brought on 18 October 2019 by the company, which provided additional information. On this basis, a new public inquiry took place between 12 and 27 February 2020, following which the city of Comines-Warneton issued a new refusal order on 24 March 2020. However, on 10 August 2020 the Walloon Ministers for the Environment and Spatial Planning signed a decree authorising the project, with the establishment of an accompanying committee in which the mayors of the border communes could participate. Only the mayor of the municipality of Comines-Warneton could appeal this decision to the Belgian Council of State, which he did on 14 September 2020. The prefect of the North, who relays the position of the Government, informed the Minister of the Walloon Environment, by a letter of 31 October 2020, of his astonishment on the authorization given, reminded him of the reservations of the French authorities on the project and informed him of the favourable opinion he would give during the consultation of his services on the appeal brought by the mayor of the commune of Comines-Warneton, thus marking the constancy of the French position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u125	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u126	Thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for your answer. Image worth a long speech, I can only invite you, together with your colleagues in the ministry of ecological transition, to visit the beautiful commune of Deûlémont.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u127	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to put her question, No 1141, on the plastic recycling sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u128	Madam Minister responsible for housing, my question is to the Minister for the Ecological Transition and concerns the state of the plastic recycling industry in France. As part of the recovery plan and the decree "to reduce, reuse and recycle", the Government has planned to release nearly 500 million euros. To this end, industrialists are strongly encouraged to incorporate more recycled materials into their products. I question you, because a company in my constituency, located in Longué-Jumelles, has made me aware of this problem. The efforts you are asking companies to achieve your goals require very heavy investments, which will only be amortized after ten, fifteen or even twenty years. This is a very important effort for the SMEs that make up the French recycling sector. At the same time, you are planning a total ban on single-use plastic by 2040. You may as well say that the French industrialists are very concerned about these objectives, which do not find any echo with our European neighbours and which will considerably reduce the raw materials to be recycled. That's the problem. You forbid, but are you going to promote the plastic recycling industry in our country? The sector has already suffered the heavy impact of foreign competition and is now experiencing the effects of the health crisis. Some federations estimate the decline in activity to 20%. Recycling companies are affected by a decline in collection and a collapse in prices due to the fall in economic activity. In view of this, is it reasonable to maintain the objective of a total ban on plastic and, at the same time, to invest EUR 500 million in a sector that will no longer have raw materials in 20 years? Will we be forced to import waste in order to run our businesses or will you simply remove a French sector that we could develop, but which will be prompted to abandon recycling? If that were the case, France would then have to turn to its European neighbours to export and recycle its waste. However, the recycling sector could become a sector of the future – it should be given the means to do so and not reverse the order of decisions. It is imperative that companies be made more visible in order to give them confidence and ensure the sustainability of their investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u129	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u130	Madam Member, you interviewed Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition, who cannot be present and asked me to answer you. While the reduction of single-use plastics is a recognised priority in France and Europe, plastic recycling is also a very important issue in the law of 10 February 2020 on the fight against waste and the circular economy, which sets the target of reaching 100% recycled plastic by 1 January 2025. Our services are currently working on the draft decree that will provide for the multi-year trajectory of minimum rates of incorporation of recycled plastics to be met by certain categories of products and materials. The issue of plastic recycling is also very important in the recovery plan, which devotes around EUR 200 million to it. Three measures are planned: firstly, to support the demand for recycled plastics, which is currently too low, with an envelope of EUR 140 million for the plastic industry, in particular to finance new industrial processes; Then, an additional EUR 50 million will be allocated to develop chemical recycling of plastic; Finally, to support the supply of recycled plastics in the short term, EUR 16 million will be released to compensate for the price gap between recycled materials and virgin materials in 2020. All these measures contribute in a very concrete way to the creation of a favourable framework for the development of the French plastic recycling industry, which remains an important objective of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u131	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u132	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, but you are not really answering my question, because there are two conflicting objectives: on the one hand, single-use plastic is banned by 2040, so the amount of deposit to be recycled will decrease, and on the other hand, you want to favour the recycling industry. It will be very difficult to articulate these two conflicting objectives. The point of my question was how you intend to reconcile two contradictory decisions. Unfortunately, you did not answer this question exactly. Industrialists, who are making a lot of efforts to invest in their business, need visibility for tomorrow's investments. If you want companies to be involved in the policy you want to drive, you have to give them confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u133	If you want the minister to answer you, you have to give her time. Madam Deputy Minister, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u134	No, thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u135	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to put her question, No. 1155, on the reform of the mining code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u136	Madam Deputy Minister, I'd like to talk to you about burls. In a small village in my department, one of them has been burning since January, with all the risks of expansion, collapse or even explosion that this implies. Because it was within its competence, it was the commune that managed this disaster for six months, both financial and technical, before the state took over, the commune being completely overtaken by the scale of the damage. In the North, Lorraine and all the former coalfields of France, the consequences of post-mines are expected to be better taken into account, including the allocation of mine damage responsibilities. The Senate Committee of Inquiry on Soil Pollution has just issued its report in September: it calls for the requirements imposed on mining operators to be strengthened. It does not happen a week without an event reminding us that the consequences of the post-mine will last a long time. Many things have changed since 1810, when the law from which much of the mining code derives was passed. Extractive and economic activities have profoundly conditioned our way of life on earth. To protect us, we adopted the environmental charter and defended, and then voted, the Paris agreement. However, none of these texts are included in the mining code! We have escaped the ecocidal project of the Golden Mountain in Guyana, but others will come, as long as the criteria for awarding mining titles, authorizations and licences to operate are not clarified. You can only agree with me, Madam Deputy Minister, that environmental protection and the prevention of environmental and health risks can no longer be ancillary in such a particular area. For more than ten years now, the reform of the mining code has been envisaged. Since then, elected officials and parliamentarians from all sides have called on governments to carry it out, but Prime Ministers have succeeded each other and ensured that a bill will soon be presented to Parliament. The Government's willingness to legislate in this area has been affirmed on several occasions during the consideration of the bill to accelerate and simplify public action, known as ASAP. Can you confirm that again and clarify the legislative timetable for this long-awaited bill in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u137	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u138	You are right, Member of Parliament, and the Ministry of Ecological Transition believes, like you and many parliamentarians, that the reform of the mining code is essential to improve the integration of environmental issues upstream, throughout the life of the projects. As was stated during the consideration of the ASAP bill, I confirm the Government's commitment to legislate in this area. We have already initiated stakeholder consultations on the text of the bill. This text will include innovative provisions. In particular, it will be proposed to consolidate and recast the French mining model – which entrusts the State with the management of mining resources – with the aim of enabling the emergence of better accepted projects, promoters of sustainable development of the territories, taking into account all the issues: environmental, economic, health and social. The text will allow for better consultation between the petitioner and the Territory. It also plans to reform the mining regime of the overseas departments, especially that of Guyana, with a view to better taking into account the living forces of communities and indigenous peoples. Finally, it will strengthen the provisions relating to the liability of the mining operator at the end of the work, for post-exploitation risk management. The question of the post-mine is a strong issue, as you have illustrated through various examples, including that of the Orbiel valley that I know well for going there. Other provisions will be adopted, such as the introduction of environmental, social and economic analysis of mining titles, the extension of environmental authorization to mining activities, the strengthening of criminal measures against illegal gold mining, the implementation of procedures for consultation throughout the life of mining title and the modernization of legal regimes in the overseas departments. This is the guideline of this legislative project, which seeks to correct the provisions that have become obsolete or insufficiently precise, in order to meet the challenges that climate change and the fight against biodiversity loss will pose in this and other areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u139	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u140	I can only be enchanted by your answer; the many mining communes in my department will be as well. My last question was the timing, which was very constrained by the crisis. I see that the issue is imminent and that you are fully aware of the urgency of this reform of the mining code, of which you have stressed the importance. I hope that you will support its very forthcoming inclusion in the legislative agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u141	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 1152, on nuisances related to the Drancy Yard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u142	With my question, I would like to draw the attention of the Government – again, if I may say so – to the noise problems of rail sorting, particularly at the Drancy Yard, which is one of the most important in the country, in any case the first in Île-de-France. In this station, thanks to a system called shooting on purpose, automated about fifteen years ago, we sort between 200000 and 300,000 cars each year. The Prime Minister, in a laudable effort to protect the environment, wants to develop the rail haulage, i.e. rail freight traffic, but so far it does not seem to be getting SNCF to also take into account the neighbours of the yard facilities. The Drancy Yard is one of the most affected by noise nuisances: within a radius of 600 metres, nearly 30,000 inhabitants have to undergo constant average noise levels between 66 and 78 decibels according to Bruitparif, but also emergences of 120 to 140 decibels in high frequency, which is a much higher sound level than take-off of an airline plane when near an airport. This situation has been going on for years and, even within the homes, the noise is increasingly heard. Yet there is one solution, which I proposed a decade ago: the ELPA process, which comes from Slovenia and, after a long fight by the municipality, was accepted by SNCF, which received €3 million to install it on the six main primary paths. This device, which reduces noise by 95%, is used in all major European stations and even in Chicago. However, for reasons which I cannot explain and which do not relate to the scheme itself, it has still not been installed, four years after the decision and payment of the 3 million. I ask the Government – which I believe has some power with SNCF – to ensure that it also agrees, in order to develop the railway, to protect the residents. Money and technology are there, but obviously the will of SNCF is not there; I hope that the Government will be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u143	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u144	Mr President, I will reply on behalf of Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Minister Delegate for Transport, to whom your question is addressed. SNCF Réseau has been engaged since 2003 in the fight against noise, to limit the impact of rail movements. As you pointed out, the Bourget-Dranky yard is important for the transport of goods, especially for the sorting of isolated wagons, and necessary for the development of this service in the country. To combat noise nuisances, which have long been identified, you mention the experimental and novel device, developed by the Slovenian company ELPA, whose principle is to inject a liquid when the wheels pass, the fluid limiting the noise generated to braking. The decision to install this facility, with a cost of approximately 7 million euros, was taken in December 2015 by SNCF Réseau, with 100% financing from the company. An experiment started in 2017 at the Bourget-Dranky site, but a technical incident led SNCF to suspend testing for more than a year. Finally, based on the results obtained, the noise reduction gains did not meet expectations. The adaptation of this system to the sorting process as practised in Bourget-Dranky is very complex; fully automated braking takes into account many parameters such as load, speed or wind. Furthermore, according to SNCF Réseau, noise measurements carried out over a 24-hour cycle show a significant decrease in noise levels over the past three years. In this context, the company remains mobilized and examines alternative solutions, such as noise-resistant walls, which could prove to be faster to install and maintain; Studies are therefore under way. The issue of rail noise brings together a follow-up committee composed of the State, the region, the metropolis of Greater Paris and SNCF Réseau, and is the subject of ongoing relations with the metropolis, which since 2018 has competence on noise and with which a budget of 4 million euros is currently under discussion for the benefit of the site of Bourget-Dranky. The Government is investing heavily in the recovery plan for rail freight. As you mention, this must be done with the people who live there, not against them. We're taking care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u145	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u146	Unlike Mrs Annie Chapelier, who asked the previous question, I am collapsed by this answer. First, because, obviously, SNCF continues to say anything to the Government: there was no technical incident during the tests, but sabotage on the part of a railway company, recognized by SNCF itself. But when you write to the minister's office, you say anything. Secondly, we are told that the noise measured by the SNCF is decreasing, but I can assure you that, living next door, it does not decrease: windows and shutters closed in the middle of the night, we see the emergences that I have mentioned. You have nothing to do with it, minister, and I beg your pardon for my anger, but it is legitimate. Thirdly, I am terrified that the SNCF still dares to claim, ten years later, that what works in Chicago or Nuremberg – I sent them to see it on the spot – would not work. Are our trains and sorting systems so different? We have to stop making fun of the world! We've been waiting ten years for them to decide: for the last five years, they've had to take the test; In 2017 there was a sabotage, and today we are talking about noise-resistant walls! I ask the Ministry of the Environment to conduct a study, quite simply. It is obvious that an anti-noise wall would be totally ineffective against rail noise on such a wide area. So I'm going to ask for an appointment from the Minister responsible for transportation, so that we can stop telling him about the bad guys and get him to do his job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u147	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor to raise her question, No. 1134, on noise pollution related to aeroclubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u148	The practice of light aviation in France is particularly dynamic: this year, it attracted more than 15,000 young people, who wanted to pass the certificate of introduction to aeronautics in one of the 500 airfields located in the territory. In recent years, air noise nuisances, largely caused by basic pilot training flights, have led to a deterioration of relationships between residents and air clubs, despite their efforts to reduce nuisances – I am thinking in particular of recent technological advances to equip aircraft with silencers, or of the introduction of flight restrictions on certain days or schedules. With regard to aircraft noise, the system for classifying light aeroplanes according to their noise performance index – CALIPSO – was introduced in 2013. Aircraft owners record their aircraft on the app, which categorizes aircraft into four categories. To date, only 850 aircraft have been referenced in the database. Minister, what means can be considered to encourage owners to register their device in this application? Finally, the development of electric aviation appears to be a promising, low-noise and, above all, much more environmentally friendly solution, which would make it possible to reconcile the aeroclubs and the residents. What financial instruments could encourage French research and construction, and encourage aeroclubs and owners to replace their thermal-powered aeroplanes with electric-powered aeroplanes? The 2021 Finance Bill provides for an increase in the fuel tax on recreational aircraft. This provision, introduced at first reading, emerged from the proposals of the Citizens' Climate Convention. Can this increase be allocated to the development of cleaner aviation and recharging facilities at aerodromes? This type of dangling would make sense of the increase in the tax and would make it possible to better accompany light aviation in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u149	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u150	You have wished to draw the attention of the Minister responsible for transport to air noise pollution and the need for information for residents. Developing and then deploying less greenhouse gas emitting and less noisy aircraft is one of our priorities. This concerns commercial flights, with EUR 1.5 billion in the recovery plan, as well as recreational aviation, which you mentioned. With regard to this sector, the Minister of Transport is following these issues with great attention. Light aviation has, of course, many advantages, as you have pointed out, but we do not avoid the fact that, despite the efforts made in the local dialogue to ensure that this aviation is well accepted, the residents of the aerodromes may also be affected by noise nuisances. Several associations are calling for reductions, particularly those caused by landing and take-off training flights. Our actions to respond to them are twofold: firstly, in connection with DGAC – Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – local adaptations, particularly concerning flight schedules and runway towers, are the subject of consultations between aeroclubs and riparians. As you recalled, we have created a classification of aircraft according to their sound performance index, CALIPSO; To date, exactly 1247 aircraft have been referenced in this base, which facilitates dialogue between aerodrome users and residents. This dialogue must be continued. In addition, we have long identified the electric aircraft as one of the most promising routes in this regard. The search for financial support for the renovation of the fleet of light aircraft is the subject of exchanges with the Fédération française aéronautique. To this end, we have been supporting a project since 2017 to evaluate the electric aircraft operationally and then deploy it as quickly as possible. This applies in particular to basic pilot training. Initial evaluations and pilot training have already been carried out. You proposed an amendment to help the aeroclubs change their aircraft fleet as part of the 2021 Finance Bill. You also mentioned the shift in part of the rise in the TICEP – internal consumption tax on energy products – on recreational aviation fuel; We're going to study this option. More generally, the challenge today is to develop a French sector of hybrid or electric propulsion technologies, as manufacturers do not yet offer this type of motorization in their catalogue; We are working with national manufacturers in this direction. The Ministry of Transport will contact you to discuss further courses of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u151	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u152	Thank you for your answer and I look forward to working on this new amendment. There is a real need to help the aeroclubs and the owners of aircraft training schools, to equip themselves with electric aircraft. There is already one in France and the French Aviation Federation is waiting for the second in Tousus-le-Noble. In order to replace used or old aircraft with these new aircraft, their purchase needs to be helped a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u153	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to put his question, No. 1139, on the consolidation of public housing offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u154	Madam Minister responsible for housing, the health and economic crisis that our country has been experiencing for several months also has a very concrete impact on housing policy. As you know, in accordance with the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, known as ELAN, voted in November 2018, the OPH – Public Housing Offices – of less than 12,000 social housing units have two obligations to respect: participation in a group that manages a heritage of at least 12,000 housing units and the obligation to merge with possible other OPHs with the same connecting community. In addition to these obligations, there is a particularly sustained context of projects and reforms to be carried out, such as the new national urban renewal programme, which will enter into operation as from 1 January 2021, and the profound changes in the policy for the allocation of social housing. Thus, our OPHs will have to, among other things, pass concrete commissions for the allocation of housing to CALEOL – commissions for the allocation of housing and for the examination of the occupation of housing –, put in place the management of the flows and hold partner plans for management and for the request for information to the applicants and the rating of the resulting demand. However, with the local bloc elections that took place last spring and the containment period, the HPOs had to limit themselves to managing day-to-day affairs in a context of renewal of their board of directors. While this did not stop the steps taken, the timetables were strongly impacted. It is therefore assumed that the process of grouping cannot be completed before the end of the year, as required by law. I stress that this delay is not their responsibility and that it is beyond their control. The consequence is that the deadline for consolidation on 1 January 2021 is no longer tenable. My first question is therefore: can we hope for some flexibility with regard to this deadline of 1 January 2021, so that the projects for the consolidation of the OPHs can be carried out in the best possible conditions, in a pragmatic and intelligent way? In addition, questions remain about the room for manoeuvre and the freedoms left to organizations. Are there any other rules to be observed outside the housing thresholds to be reached and the minimum level of mutualisation required? Are there specific rules on the territorial grid of the grouping? Is there, to put it more simply, a freedom of initiative in the choice of the members who will make up the future groups, or does the prefect have the last word about their determination? As you will have understood, these questions are essential to enable future groups or public limited liability companies to carry out simultaneously the consolidation and all the necessary projects and reforms, while continuing to ensure the social and public utility mission in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u155	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u156	The consolidation of the HLM bodies provided for by the ELAN Act has been under way for two years and the regular monitoring carried out by my Ministry shows that, overall, the sector has seized all the legal tools and that the consolidation projects have made considerable progress. A very large majority of organizations will thus be up to date on January 1, 2021. I wish to maintain this pace of finalisation of the projects, the completion of which will help to strengthen the bodies, which will thus be able to invest more effectively in construction, in renovation and in urban renewal, and thus contribute to the revival and the effort to develop the supply of housing absolutely necessary in our country, in particular in your department, Mr Ramadier. The deadline will therefore not be staggered. However, we will consider on a case-by-case basis the situation of organizations, particularly when they are already actively engaged in the finalization of a viable project in the short term. As far as the OPHs themselves are concerned, I would point out that they have been granted an additional two-year period when they are subject to both an obligation to consolidate and an obligation to merge bodies attached to the same EPCI – a public institution for intercommunal cooperation. They therefore enjoy a considerable margin of flexibility. Finally, with regard to the modalities of consolidation, the ELAN law has created a new tool, the coordination company, which allows donors to come closer in a rather simple way. The relevant article of the Construction and Housing Code specifies the purpose of these coordination companies. The concept of territorial clustering does not appear on a mandatory basis, which answers your question on flexibility and freedom. Although we find that many coordination society projects are based on a territorial rapprochement logic, this logic is not mandatory and does not prevail for all projects. Finally, I confirm that, as long as the bodies comply with the time limits and procedures laid down by law, they retain complete autonomy in order to design the grouping project most suited to their situation, even if, in the end, certain legal acts imply a decision by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u157	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u158	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for I note that there is no blocking both on the territorial grid and on the deadline of January 1, 2021. We will make sure to respond to it in your interest as in ours...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u159	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u160	...and in that of our inhabitants, so that this housing policy can achieve its goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u161	The next speaker is Mr Régis Juanico, to put his question, No 1151, concerning the half-part for widows of veterans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u162	Madam Minister of Remembrance and Veterans Affairs, I would like to ask you about the additional half of the tax that can be paid to veterans' widows. A year ago, a historic vote was held in this House on this subject. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Finance by our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne and the identical amendment tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, of which I was the first signatory, were adopted almost unanimously, with 105 votes in favour and one against. This reparation amendment ended a major injustice between the widows of veterans, by extending to widows who had reached the age of 74 the benefit of an additional half tax, provided that their deceased husbands had themselves held the fighter's card or a fighter's pension from the age of 65. This advance for the fighting world must benefit 50,000 widows with often modest income, from 1 January 2021, at a budget cost of 30 million euros. But there remains another injustice between veterans' widows, which affects those whose spouse holding the combatant's card died before the age of 65. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether it is now considering supplementing the measure adopted last year by allowing all these widows to benefit from this half-tax, regardless of their spouse's age of death. This would be a measure of equity and solidarity vis-à-vis veterans and their families, at a modest cost of EUR 18 million, which could benefit an additional 8,000 widows. I would also like to draw your attention to widows of veterans whose spouses died before the age of 65 and who hold a certificate stating that their husband could have claimed the combatant's card during his lifetime. The departmental council for war veterans and victims had, a few years ago, the opportunity to issue a certificate to the widow of a veteran establishing that her husband met the requirements for being recognized as a combatant. Madam Deputy Minister, are you going to facilitate the administrative procedures of these widows so that they can benefit from the tax half-share?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u163	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u164	As you pointed out, a significant step has been taken in last year's Finance Act and it will come into force as of January 1, 2021. As of that date, all surviving spouses of veterans will be eligible for the half-tax allowance from the age of 74, even if the Veteran died between the ages of 65 and 74. Today, you want all surviving spouses of veterans to benefit from this measure, regardless of the age of death of the veteran. I'm not in favour of it. First, the additional half tax paid to veterans is an important exception to the family quotient principle, which is intended to proportionately tax the taxpayer's dependants. This tax advantage, which is due to the recognition of the nation towards its veterans, is of an exceptional nature. That is why it is linked to the benefit of the veteran's retirement, which is paid from age 65. I would like to point out that this type of scheme primarily benefits those who are subject to income tax, who, for the most part, have also benefited from all the tax cuts decided by the Government in recent years. I am thinking of the drop in income tax last year and the phasing out of the housing tax. My commitment has always been to focus on measures targeted at the most fragile, to solve difficult social and personal situations. However, the most fragile are not subject to income tax. I confirm to you that all surviving spouses of veterans, regardless of their age or circumstances, have access to social assistance provided by the ONACVG – National Veterans Office and War Victims – without the Veteran's age of death criteria. It is really a support for the most fragile. I strive to maintain high funding for social assistance, despite the steady decline in the number of veterans, which helps to preserve these mechanisms for the most fragile. Finally, I am of course in favour of simplifying the procedures for obtaining the attestation you mentioned, but at present there are not many people who would be missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u165	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u166	I take note of this reply, but regret that the minister delegate is not in favour of a justice measure that would benefit 8,000 widows and constitutes a major demand of the FNACA – the National Federation of Veterans of Algeria –, the world's first combatant organization. We are in the context not of a fiscal niche or an exceptional advantage, but of a right to reparation. There would be a very simple regulatory measure to be taken, without even going back to the law: it would be to go back to the circular issued by your Ministry in 2005 informing the departmental branches of public finances that they had full latitude towards veterans' widows. It would then be sufficient for them to produce a certificate of their status as a spouse of a holder of the combatant's card to benefit from the half-part. It is to this tolerance that I call you and that we should return today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u167	I call Mr Eric Pauget to speak on his question No. 1143 on the reinforced police force in Antibes-Juan-les-Pins, Grasse and Cannes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u168	Madam Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs, in a highly troubled security environment, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the understaffing of the National Police in the police services of the municipalities of Antibes-Juan-les-Pins, Cannes and Grasse, west of the Alpes-Maritimes. In my department, the brutal assassinations at Notre-Dame Basilica in Nice are in addition to the long list of attacks committed on our soil by Islamist barbarism, but it is throughout the departmental territory that the very high level of threat and delinquency justifies the total mobilization of the intelligence and internal security services, and requires the allocation of enhanced resources in all areas where security issues are important. The Government had certainly increased the security arrangements to the east of the department by sending 120 additional national police officers to Nice, and that was all the better. However, its requirements must extend geographically beyond this sector and also apply to the west of the Alpes-Maritimes and its 500,000 inhabitants. It must be noted that the capacity choices made so far are insufficient in view of the dangers that threaten this territory. The town of Antibes-Juan-les-Pins, in the electoral district of which I am elected, illustrates the situation perfectly: in eight years – from 2012 to 2020 – its police station has seen a reduction of 43 police officers, and 13 posts were still not filled on 1 September last. We have never experienced such a situation in the west of the Alpes-Maritimes. Of course, municipal police tend to limit this operational deficit, but, as we all know, the exercise has its limits and the budgets of the municipalities as well. Madam Minister-in-Charge, this shortage of staff imposes a twofold question. Do you intend to change the territorial security arrangements by deploying additional forces west of the Alpes-Maritimes? Do you intend to remedy this situation of understaffed national police in Antibes-Juan-les-Pins, Grasse and Cannes? There is equal and legitimate access to security for the inhabitants of the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u169	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u170	As you know, the expectations of the French are strong in terms of security, and the Government is making every effort to meet them: thanks to €1.7 billion in increases since 2017, we are strengthening and modernising the resources of the law enforcement forces, first on the human level, with 10,000 additional police officers and gendarmes, then on the material level, with renewals, especially in the fleet of vehicles. We also need to improve the way we act and organise, which is just as important. This is the purpose, for example, of the White Paper on Internal Security, which the Minister of the Interior made public on 16 November and which sets out the way to improve the effectiveness of our organisation. On the issue of Islamist terrorism, which, unfortunately, has particularly struck your department, we will continue to strengthen the staff of the intelligence services. In addition, important decisions have been taken by the President of the Republic to strengthen border control. The Prime Minister, during his visit to Nice on 25 July, announced, inter alia, the increase in the police force in that city. You called him back and I thank you for that. I come to the police force in the communes that concern you. The public security district of Cannes now has 149 officers and peacekeepers mobilized daily on the ground. In terms of police activity, the population of the district and more qualitative data on target indicators related, for example, to drug trafficking, this figure exceeds the desired strength in this district by seven units. Antibes, for its part, counts 124 officers and guards, a figure that is seven more than the target. Grasse is at the target, with 85 officers and peacekeepers. I would also point out that these police officers may receive, whenever necessary, the reinforcement of nearly 180 police officers from departmental units and, if necessary, from mobile forces. Finally, I recall that the police and gendarmerie are coordinating on the ground, under the auspices of the Prefect, as part of the enhanced operational coordination in towns and territories, established in 2011. Be assured that the mobilization of our police officers is complete and that it is bearing fruit. Over the past ten months, the number of incidents reported by the police has decreased by 15% across the department, by 16.7% in Antibes, by 13% in Cannes and by 20% in Grasse – however, these figures must be taken with caution, given the periods of confinement. The police are present; the police are acting. Of course, we will pay particular attention to ensuring that the means are maintained in this territory, which deserves our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u171	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u172	Madam Minister Delegate, I regret the lack of commitment of the state, because the figures you have given are obtained through the efforts of the communes: in Cannes, Grasse and Antibes, as in Nice, it is the municipal police that ensure public security, in coordination with the state. The decline in the national police force is real: in eight years, the Antibes police station has lost forty posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u173	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to raise her question, No. 1125, concerning masks provided to State officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u174	My question concerns the masks distributed to State officials, particularly in national education. As early as April, Mediapart launched an investigation into the strategic choices made by the Government to supply the country with masks, but the Government was opposed to business secrecy. On 13 October, I relayed to Mr. Blanquer a revelation from the website Reporterre concerning the masks of the brand DIM provided to all national education staff. These masks would be potentially toxic to human health and the environment, because they are treated with silver zeolith. Seven days later, the Government announced the suspension of their use pending an opinion from ANSES, the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health. This was a very good thing, especially since ANSES then stated in its opinion that the risks associated with wearing these masks could not be excluded, given a range of uncertainties, particularly as regards compliance with good practice. In the fall of November, teachers received new masks, validated as an exception by ANSES – dixit M. Blanquer. However, many questions also remain about these masks, especially since they are distributed in an envelope outside their original box. They would be made in China by the American company Medline, but how can you be sure that these aren't the famous DIM masks yet? Could you confirm that they do not contain nanoparticles, as stated by society? In the absence of the CE marking, which indicates compliance with European standards, how do we know whether they comply with existing health standards? Finally, does France not have companies manufacturing masks, whose compliance with the standards could be verified? This is a public health issue. I ask that the information on this matter be transparent and, therefore, that the confidentiality of cases be lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u175	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u176	You first question the Government, Mrs Rubin, about the possible risks associated with the use of DIM's textile masks because of their treatment with silver zeolith. As part of its supply of masks, the State actually acquired masks of this brand last spring, which were distributed to public officials. These masks, in accordance with existing European regulations, had also been certified by an independent body, which concluded that there was no risk to human health. They were approved and distributed in several European countries, not only France, but also Germany, among others. However, a process of risk re-evaluation for zeoliths is under way at European level, bearing in mind that a study dating back to the end of 2019 highlighted the health risks associated with zeoliths, for a use however different from that reported by the mask-producing company. In addition, the Government decided to seize ANSES, in order to achieve rapid results, and immediately decided, on 20 October, without waiting for the Agency's conclusions, to replace these masks with other models that did not contain zeolith. As a result, other masks were sent without delay to the officers. The Government's priority is the protection of public officials, who ensure the continuity of public service in times of crisis – they deserve our thanks. Based on its findings made public at the end of October, ANSES has not identified any health risk when the conditions of use of the mask are strictly observed. However, it indicated that any health risk cannot be ruled out if the mask is worn without first washing and is not changed as soon as it is wet. You also raise the important issue of economic patriotism. I welcome the mobilisation of the French textile industry to deal with the health crisis; Its adaptation has been absolutely exemplary. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has endeavoured to develop industrial production of consumer masks in accordance with defined standards. This production is in the process of being sustained and contributes directly to the objective of economic independence set by the President of the Republic, which you also call your wishes. It also contributes to the creation and relocation of industrial activities and jobs in our territories. Be assured that we pay full attention to the safety and health of our agents and ensure that they are equipped with the most suitable equipment. Of course, there is nothing to hide, and all information is provided by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u177	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u178	You have partly taken up the chronology I have mentioned, but you have not answered the questions I have asked in a precise way. Do DIM masks contain nanoparticles? You indicate that a study is under way; We want full transparency in this regard. With regard to new masks, how is it that they do not include the CE marking indicating compliance with European standards? Finally, do you plan to work with French companies, which are actually mobilizing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u179	The floor is open to Mr Philippe Latomb, to put forward his question, No. 1121, on the dependence of national education on GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u180	Through you, Madam Minister Delegate for Sport, I would like to draw the attention of the Government, in particular the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sports, to the dependence of national education on GAFAM. As part of a call for tenders published last August, the Ministry of National Education will release budgets for the renewal of licences for Microsoft products and associated services. The total amount of this agreement is estimated at EUR 8.3 million for an initial period of 12 months, tacitly renewable up to a maximum of 48 months. The aim is to equip central service officers and deconcentrated departments, which, according to public procurement assessments, represents approximately 800,000 workstations and 800,000 servers. It must be noted that national education is thus a little deeper in its dependence on GAFAM. The gear has been on for a long time, and the debate is not new, since Classroom, iCloud, Facebook and Office 365 are free in the classrooms. The Law of 22 July 2013 on Higher Education and Research provides that free software is used as a priority, but in fact this is not the case. These hardware and software acquisition policies are already old. What is new, on the other hand, is the use of cloud – data clouds – of GAFAM. They are given the personal and academic data of students and teachers, who are, we know, particularly sensitive and numerous, and tell a lot about each student and his/her personal history. Knowing the GAFAM's business practices, their economic model – based on the opaque use of data – and their close links with the NSA, the National Security Agency of the United States, it seems particularly naive and dangerous to deliver them in this way. The debate on the dependence of national education on Microsoft has, I said, nothing new, but similar criticisms have recently echoed it about the Health data hub project or the Open bar contract, negotiated a few years ago between the Ministry of Defence and Microsoft's Irish subsidiary. To these criticisms, it is often answered that it would be too expensive or too complicated to do otherwise. However, in Bulgaria, all state-owned software is free software – open source. Is France, the world's sixth largest power, not able to achieve the same result? Could it not also have a secure cloud? As rapporteur of the fact-finding mission on digital national and European sovereignty, I am particularly concerned about this situation and would like to know how the Government intends to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u181	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u182	For its information systems, the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports relies on a variety of computer solutions, including free software – which accounts for 98% of the base of the installed servers – and products from a large number of publishers or distributors. With regard to free software, the Ministry relies on a clean market to benefit from Red Hat Linux solutions and an inter-ministerial market to benefit from support on certain free software. It also has a centre of free software skills and not just consumes free software, since it produces it itself, with agents or providers. The procurement that you mentioned is primarily intended to cover maintenance requirements, mainly for Windows and Office workstations and servers associated with workstation management. It concerns the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, more specifically their central administrations, academies, higher education and research institutions and several operators. Through this common market, all these services can optimize their purchasing processes and pool their needs. This market, which takes place in the context of a renewal, and therefore the sustainability of investments already committed, is composed of two lots: Lot 1 deals with the provision of Microsoft solutions and Lot 2 deals with the provision of services associated with Microsoft solutions. To meet some of their needs, the actors I have just mentioned have been investing for several years in Microsoft workstation and server management solutions or collaborative solutions, and ensuring their continuous evolution, to facilitate the exercise of their educational, administrative and research missions. The grouping of these actors makes it possible to benefit from favourable educational rates on the support or on the rights of use for all the stakeholders, conditions more favourable than those which are made to other sectors. It also makes it possible to benefit, on Lot 2, from attractive rates for the provision of services in view of the volume of activity potentially generated by the beneficiaries. Finally, the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports implements numerous collaborative tools based on open-source or open-source solutions: the M@gistère de formation open à distance platform, used by more than 250,000 teachers each year, the Tribu collaborative space, which is used to share documents, and a video conferencing and virtual classroom solution that is still in the test phase and will be fully operational at the beginning of 2021 – it is based on the BigBlueButton open source solution. All these developments are carried out in consultation with other ministries, in particular the interdepartmental Directorate of Digital. The Ministry is also part of the Gaia-X European Sovereign Cloud Programme, launched by France and Germany, which aims to build a reliable and secure data infrastructure for Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u183	Mrs Josiane Corneloup spoke of her question, No. 1140, concerning the Action Plan for Associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u184	Madam Minister responsible for sports, the consequences of the health crisis are felt by the world of associations. As early as 16 March, at the beginning of the first confinement, all the associations had to renounce the organisation of the demonstrations, which provided them with the bulk of the year's revenues useful for their operation. A large majority of them are now deprived of resources. The community world plays an essential social, educational and civic role in our society, which we all welcome. Thanks to the dedication of many volunteers, millions of men and women, young and older, find themselves throughout the year, throughout the country, around a passion or a single focus of interest, in a climate of tolerance and fraternity, at the service of the general interest. Because of the absence of demonstrations, I said, many associations suffer from a collapse of their revenues. In addition, they have to cope with a drop in their staff – sports licensees, for example, did not return to their club's path during the debunking phase. Finally, it is to be feared that volunteers, often elderly, who animate many of them and who have stayed at home for fear of contracting the virus, will demobilize and no longer come back to help them after the health crisis. In the face of this three-fold alarming observation, we must support these thousands of associations in order to ensure their sustainability. They are the dynamism and vitality of our territories. The FDVA, the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, is currently the only tool to help them. Last year, however, only 40 per cent of the associations that applied for FDVA assistance were satisfied. If we want to save our community at risk, it is imperative, on the one hand, to increase the appropriations of this fund, which currently has EUR 25 million, and, on the other hand, to encourage sponsorship through tax incentives. Madam Minister Delegate, what action plan do you intend to implement to ensure the sustainability of these major players in our democracy, which are signs of the solidity and vitality of a nation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u185	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u186	You are asking me about the impact of the health crisis on the community and I would also like to answer on behalf of Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, who is therefore responsible for associations within the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. You are right to recall the essential role played by associations in our society and, above all, the special vigilance that we must give them during this period, as well as any structure whose core business is to take care of others. We know that we will need these very important actors at the end of the crisis. As a reminder, the voluntary sector currently represents 1.5 million associations, 22 million volunteers and one in ten private sector jobs. Our support for associations takes various forms, and I will comment on the budget which Mrs El Hairy is responsible for, since other measures apply to sports associations. First of all, our aid is aid for cash and equity, thanks to the action of France Active, which offers financial solutions amounting to EUR 45 million for the period 2020-2022 and, second, thanks to the Bank of the Territories, which mobilises an envelope of EUR 40 million for the purchase of bonds. Secondly, we have chosen to support voluntary employment with the funding of 2000 assisted posts, the FONJEP posts – the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund – which will be created in 2021 and 2022 and supported to the tune of €7164 per year for three years. They are intended for young people between the ages of 18 and 30, whether or not they are graduates and experienced. Thirdly, we have also worked to ensure that employers' associations have access to the common law mechanisms created in response to the crisis. This was very important, for for example EUR 6 billion was allocated to the Solidarity Fund, which is common to all sectors. In this regard, it is essential that we be supported by parliamentarians to ensure the communication of these common law mechanisms, so that more associations may ask for them, because too few of them have so far done so. Among these schemes, without claiming to be exhaustive, I will also mention simplified and reinforced partial unemployment, aimed at maintaining employment in companies, and thus associations. In the sports and culture sectors, the employer is even entitled to zero. Time limits for payment of social or fiscal deadlines in the most difficult situations have also been established. The remuneration of employees of sports associations who continue to work at a distance, inter alia to maintain the link with members, may even be exempt from employer and salary contributions. This is the latest sport measure announced last week by the President of the Republic. Finally, it should be noted that direct tax rebates may be granted to associations that pay for them as part of an individualized examination of applications. Last thing I wanted to mention: on the occasion of the fourth amending finance bill for 2020, you voted to increase the appropriations of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA – by €5 million. This is in addition to the EUR 25 million you mentioned and the EUR 15 million from the inactive bank accounts. The FDVA aid campaign will be launched in early 2021. As you can see, we are present alongside our associations from all sectors. They are essential to our Republic, and we will continue to deploy all these support modalities with strength and energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u187	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1148, on the health protocol for school catering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u188	While the health protocol is generally well respected in local public schools and educational institutions during purely educational times – taking into account existing material conditions – this is not always the case at the time of restoration. In several schools in the Sarthe, parents, but also students, college students, or high school students complained of a material impossibility to comply with health regulations, including physical distancing, which led students to too close contact with their fellow students when they did not wear masks. The revised protocol provides that students in the same group will have lunch together and, as far as possible, always at the same table. A distance of at least one metre should be observed between the groups and the tables of the refectories are cleaned and disinfected after each service. However, several cases of students tested positive were reported to me whose contact cases were comrades sitting next to them in the canteen. Moreover, the tables are, in fact, glued together. The premises are often too narrow and even the organization of several services does not allow to comply with the basic rules that have been laid down. For example, if a school has 500 pupils but has only about 100 canteen places, it cannot organize five consecutive services, at least in accordance with the rules. This situation leads me to ask you two questions. Could we, first of all, consider a solution of light and temporary separation between students in order to remedy the worst situations – which would require identifying them on the basis of field findings? Secondly, is there a discussion at national level aimed, in consultation with the territorial authorities responsible for educational premises, at better adapting them to these periods of crisis which are, in the end, likely to recur on a regular basis? These potential crises require a preventive attitude and substantive work that has not always been carried out so far. I thank you in advance for the answer that you can give me – that of the State, a comprehensive response that must take into account the working commitment of local and regional authorities in dealing with situations identified as the most critical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u189	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u190	The implementation of the health protocol has required considerable mobilisation and adaptation by all local and regional authorities, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them. In the vast majority of situations, these adaptations have made it possible to ensure the satisfactory functioning of school catering, which is a fundamental social issue. There are children who eat badly, or too little. But eating well is essential to the success of our children and, it is important to say, to their health. The guarantee of a balanced daily meal reduces the risk of deficiencies and obesity. Where the size and configuration of the premises make it necessary, relevant adjustments have been made by some local authorities, for example, by using additional space in the school or providing lunch baskets for some of the pupils. I would point out that these solutions mainly concern high schools, which now have the possibility to reduce the number of pupils present thanks to the plan of pedagogical continuity. Solutions such as temporary light separation are not prescribed by the health authorities, but may also be a relevant response to limit brewing or ensure the necessary distancing. Furthermore, to answer your question, I confirm that the Ministry of National Education is conducting a reflection with the local authorities on the design and layout of school buildings, which will lead, in 2021, to the publication of reference books for schools, colleges and high schools. These will integrate not only the health issue, but also the evolution of educational practices, ecological transition and the anchoring and opening up of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u191	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u192	I thank you for these elements and for your willingness to continue the reflection to improve the situation in a concrete way. It is important that the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports work not only with local authorities, but also with parliamentarians, who know the field and are seized by parents, students and institutions. Finally, I would add that it is essential to provide financial support to communities, which have made a huge effort since the health crisis began. We will not be able to achieve the solutions we have mentioned without giving them a financial boost.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u193	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Dharréville, to put his question, No. 1127, concerning the lack of accompanying students with disabilities in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u194	A few weeks ago, in my constituency, parents, accompanying students with disabilities – AESH –, teachers and teachers, as well as elected officials, began to express their anger about the situation of children and a petition collected thousands of signatures. As a result, I asked a little over a month ago for the meeting of the National Follow-up Committee for the Inclusive School to review the situation as quickly as possible and to be able to remedy it. For the time being, I have not received an answer. We lack places to accommodate children with disabilities in existing local units of school inclusion and we lack AESH, whose schedules do not correspond to the recommendations of the CDMH, the departmental house of disabled people. In the city of Istres, the mayor told me that the number of children to be accompanied is steadily increasing by 15% a year, while the recommendations have increased this year from twenty-one hours of AESH's presence for three children to twenty-one hours for four children. In some cities, I have even been able to see actual ratios of twenty-one hours for five children. Like the EMIs, or medico-educational institutes, of the territory, ULIS devices – specialised units for school inclusion – are saturated, knowing that the replacement of absent accompanying persons does not seem to be planned either. In Martigues, the children are sent to nearby communes and, in front of this saturation, one of them is kept at the lower level. As far as possible, cities are developing complementary schemes, but this situation is not normal. An academic circular, dated 26 June 2020, lays down the following rule: "In calculating the adequacy of AESH resources and accompanying needs, a maximum of five weekly AESH hours will be taken into account for a student. What is the use of individualised CDMH notifications? It is not for nothing that every situation is the subject of a specific examination! What does that five-hour figure correspond to? The rise in the power of LSPs, the localised inclusive support hubs, ultimately serves to circumvent notifications and the individual right to accompaniment by pooling the shortage. I see parents who sometimes have to keep their child at home, children who are deprived of school or who live poorly, teachers who have to go to class in difficult conditions and accompanying people who say they are not placed in conditions that allow them to do their work – and, ultimately, there is the spectre of de-schooling. The school, these children want it, and the Republic must offer it to them all by adjusting it. They need it to build themselves, to grow up, to learn. I want to tell you, Madam Minister Delegate, the revolt, sometimes the dismay, often the anger, of the parents, who feel disrespected and who sometimes see their children regress because of lack of such accompaniment. These parents do not understand this gap between the display and the real. What do you intend to do to ensure that, at a minimum, the notifications of the CDMH are fully respected in primary and secondary education? The academic circular must be reviewed to ensure that the school does not become suffering and that the children are welcomed in the best conditions. They're entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u195	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u196	As part of the consolidation of a genuine public service for inclusive schools, the Government has embarked on the redefinition and upgrading of the accompanying profession within the educational community. Nearly 110,000 professionals are now at the service of students with disabilities, which, for the new year 2020, represented more than 8000 FTEs – full-time equivalents – additional. A new management framework, resulting from the law for a school of trust, has made it possible, as early as 2019, to secure the courses of the AESH. This framework has clarified how to count their working time, in order to ensure recognition of all the activities carried out. It accelerated the transformation path of assisted contracts into fixed-term contracts of at least three years, renewable once and then paving the way for their sustainability in CDI. It has also created a departmental department of the inclusive school, the management department dedicated to accompanying persons, in the departmental directorates of the national education services and the rectorates. Moreover, the gradual spread of inclusive support hubs located since the 2019 school year increases the possibility, for a majority of AESH, of seeing their working time increase thanks to a new organisation of support, which also allows better support for children with disabilities. By the beginning of 2020, two thirds of the national territory was organised in PIAL, while the whole will be covered by the beginning of 2021. The increase in the number of accompanied pupils has resulted in a significant increase in the number of accompanying personnel, for whom the Ministry of National Education has carried out a previous effort to secure the courses. National education is deploying a new information system in inclusive schools, which will, on the one hand, need to support better implementation of the school adaptations required by some students – such as the creation of an inclusive course book – and, on the other hand, allow the launch of a new management application for students with disabilities. Developed by the Academies of Aix-Marseille and Toulouse, the Academies have been operating since the start of the 2020 school year throughout the country. The Academy of Grenoble is currently training reference teachers for its use, while those of Bordeaux and Versailles have just installed it. We also want to transform the management of these professionals: in order to ensure its full effectiveness, the new management framework is monitored more closely, and improving the conditions of employment is one of the priorities of the ministry's social agenda. A National Advisory Committee of the AESH was established on 27 February 2020. In order to better support the officers, a human resources guide was published for them on 2 July 2020. As a result of the dialogue with trade union organisations, this practical tool for the AESHs specifies their conditions of employment and their working environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u197	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u198	I hear everything you say to me, Madam Deputy Minister, but you have not responded to the local situation I have mentioned, nor to the circular which sets the limit of five hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u199	Mr François Pupponi has the floor to put his question, No. 1147, on karate at the Paris Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u200	On 24 November, just a few days before the final validation by the IOC, the International Olympic Committee, of the list of sports selected for the Olympic Games in Paris in 2024, karate is the great absence of the programme. This exclusion, if confirmed, would be a very bad signal for French sport, as well as for the entire part of our population that loves this discipline and the values of self-respect and self-control it conveys. In our country, karate, 250,000 licensees in 5000 clubs throughout the country perform exceptional work with young people. I have witnessed it every day, for decades, in my town of Sarcelles where the karate club has to push the walls because there are many demands. Popular sport, karate is also a sport of excellence, with formidable champions on the extraordinary list, which give our country concrete chances of titles. At the last world championships in Austria in 2016, France had won eight medals and finished second in the world. All karate players have been preparing for the Tokyo Olympic Games for many months and were hoping to be part of the program for the duration of the Games. Inexplicably, the OCOG – the organizing committee for the Olympic Games – in Paris seems to have decided otherwise. I admit that I find it difficult to grasp the criteria that led to the removal of karate, a sport that has 50 million practitioners in the world and a medalist, who promotes the values of respect, mutual esteem and fraternity that are those of Olympism since its inception. Deputy Minister, there is still time to change the course of history. Do you intend to propose karate to the list of additional sports for Paris 2024? Tokyo had proposed five; France proposes only four: therefore, there is still a place for karate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u201	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u202	The selection of additional sports by the Olympic and Paralympic Organizing Committee was part of a multi-month process. The International Karate Federation, like all other candidate federations, was received and had the opportunity to defend its project. The criteria for awarding participation in the Olympic Games were the sustainability of the disciplines within the Olympic programme, but also the desire to inspire new audiences, to attract the younger generation on social networks with sports practiced everywhere, on a daily basis, in the city as well as in nature. The identity of Paris 2024 is oriented towards sports that value the performance of athletes, that invite commitment, that are accessible and practical outside the traditional stadiums and that appeal to creativity. The Games Organizing Committee selected four sports that met these criteria: breakdance, skateboarding, climbing and surfing. This decision was announced on 21 February 2019, in accordance with the principles laid down by the OCOG, and was approved by the Executive Board of the International Olympic Committee and adopted unanimously at the IOC session on 25 June 2019. In December 2020, it will be subject to IOC validation, which will still be able to withdraw one or more of the four additional sports chosen by the OCOG. But now it is no longer possible to add new sports to this list. The OCOG received the International Karate Federation in early March to answer its questions. No negotiations were subsequently initiated between the two bodies. I would add that the Fédération française de karate received a grant of more than one million euros in 2019, which represents a 20% increase in the financial effort of the Ministry of Sports in its favour and shows France's commitment to this sport, which offers a beautiful prospect of medals for the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2021, on which it appears. With 250,000 graduates, the federation is strongly supported by the Ministry of Sports, which also provides personalized support to athletes and champions that the federation manages to train on a regular basis. Regardless of the OCOG's choice of the additional sports that will be included in the Paris 2024 programme, I can assure you that karate practice in France will continue to receive the attention of the ministry and will receive all necessary support, as well as the other federations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u203	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u204	The procedure is not closed and the Covid-19 has disrupted the negotiations between the federations and the OCOG. We are in an exceptional year, the Olympic Games have been postponed and I think we can still try to integrate karate into it. In the priority areas of city policy, I repeat, this sport plays a major role in mentoring, structuring and educating young people. Not giving karate the opportunity to be present in 2024 would be a bad symbol. The national karate federation has asked me to intervene to try, as far as possible, to reopen the negotiations, since the decision has not yet been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u205	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor to raise her question, No. 1142, on the national plan for the prevention of radicalisation and sports clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u206	Violations of secularism and republican values are increasing. First insidious, then more open, more aggressive, attempts by radicalized Islamists to core sports clubs continue to multiply. A recent parliamentary report as well as an investigative book, The Black Book of Sport, report on these abuses. The numerous testimonies of sports professionals, federation leaders, state officials, local authorities, UCLAT – the anti-terrorist coordination unit – and intelligence services are to be taken seriously. All reported a multiplication of drifts: wearing ostentatious signs, practice of prayer at sports venues, hours and days of training and competition conditioned by the religious calendar, marginalization or exclusion of non-Muslim members, development of non-mixed and community clubs, proselytism... It's a long list. These radicalized Islamists are lay-offs, leaders, mentors or educators. They are present in all sports disciplines, and especially in shooting or combat sports where they sometimes train in order to prepare for a transition to the terrorist act – as a reminder, all the terrorists who committed attacks in France were regular licensees of sports clubs. The French intelligence services are well informed about the rise of this scourge. Moreover, the Government site, stop-jihadism.gouv, designates sports clubs as the first place of radicalization, in front of prisons and mosques. For radical Islamists, sports clubs are both a place of intriguing and agitation. In 2019, 1270 individuals identified in the FSPRT file – a file of reports for the prevention of terrorist radicalisation – trained assiduously in sports clubs. Some of them are sports educators whose role and influence, especially in popular circles, are very often superior to those of teachers, parents or social leaders. Leaving our children in their hands is extremely dangerous, even criminal. Madam Deputy Minister, what is the status of the national plan to prevent radicalisation? Are you going to put in place a mechanism to protect sports clubs from the rise of radicalisation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u207	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u208	Since I joined the ministry two years ago, I have defended the idea that a healthy and educational sport can only be a republican sport in which the fundamental principles of equality, unity and fraternity are embodied. Our gymnasiums, stadiums, swimming pools are places where citizenship is lived, where our republican values are shared and passed on to children born in our country, but also to children who have come from elsewhere and who we have chosen to welcome. My conviction is that any sincere citizen in his or her sport should be able to practice his or her sport in an associative setting without risk of being excluded from it because of his or her religious beliefs. The secularism, the lung of our Republic, commits us to combine freedom of conscience and religious expression with the principles of equality, respect and development that underpin the organization of our sports activities. Of course, in order to defend these values brought to bear by those who do sport on a daily basis, we must, at the same time, fight without weakness and unambiguously against any attempt at propaganda towards vulnerable young people, any form of religious radicalisation or community drift. This struggle involves several actions already undertaken by my ministry. First, better initial and ongoing training of educators to be alert to these situations, to be able to address them, to respond to them, and to engage in clear and effective procedures. Next, the creation of a national support mission within the Sports Directorate, which accompanies the deconcentrated services and animates the network of referents that I have created within the CREPS – centres of resources, expertise and sports performance – and sports federations. Radicalization phenomena are complex and I have always taken care not to give in to shortcuts or approximations. Thus, in compliance with French law, I do not have access to the FSPRT, nor to the S cards.On the other hand, with the support of the CIPDR – Interministerial Committee for the Prevention of Delinquency and Radicalisation – scientific research will be undertaken on radicalisation in sport. They will be complemented by a mission of the General Inspectorate of Education, Sport and Research on the phenomena of radicalisation in youth reception structures. I am also working to amplify the Ministry's work in the priority neighbourhoods of city policy to strengthen the mix of practices from an early age and to target the funding of the National Sports Agency on community facilities and support for the employment of educator. Finally, I wanted sport to play an active role in the future bill that reinforces republican principles by strengthening the commitment of the sports movement in the service of living together and the values of our Republic. As you will understand, Member: for me, sport must be proud of its humanistic and multicultural values. To defend them, he must resolutely fight against any violation of the Republican pact. That is the meaning of my commitment and it is the legacy that the Government will honour to leave to future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u209	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u210	I take note of your answer and I am pleased that you intend to combat the phenomenon of radicalisation. The subject must indeed be dealt with with with the utmost vigilance. However, can you assure us that the controls in sports clubs will be strengthened and that radicalised clubs will be closed? Moreover, could public subsidies not be conditional on respect for the rules of neutrality and secularism? Does the ministry intend to set up a network of whistleblowers with trained referents, following the model of the Ile-de-France region? Could not sports educators, who are on the front line, receive specific training in the prevention of radicalization and attacks on secularism and republican values? Could permission to practise sports educators not be conditional on verification of the FSPRT file? At a time when terrorism is raging, attacks, especially in Paris, have multiplied and the terrorist threat is ubiquitous, the Government must not wait for the worst to happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u211	Mr Cédric Villani, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1153, on the State's failure to respect persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u212	Despite the progress made in the law, despite successive government strategies, many of the obstacles and shortcomings faced by persons with disabilities remain. Among these obstacles, one of the most painful, and source of innumerable questioning in my constituency – and, I would believe, in the constituencies of many of my parliamentary colleagues – is the slow administrative reaction of the departmental houses of the disabled, the CDMH. I will cite the example of this family that I know, whose son is heavily disabled, and which submitted to the CDMH a dossier for a comprehensive accompanying plan in February 2020. The answer came in September. In the meantime, they have found a solution for themselves. It should be remembered that the law provides for a response within a maximum of four months: it is six months, in times of pandemic, with a particularly sensitive audience. Here, it's for a globalized support plan; there, this relates to reimbursements of benefits; In other countries, it is a bountiful exchange for personal assistance benefits. In all cases where I am questioned, 80% of these people are disabled for life. One of these institutions' brakes is the obsolete information processing system. I was able to see this when I put my department's CDMH in contact with computer science experts in order to improve the speed of processing files with modern algorithms. Unfortunately, the information system was so archaic that no serious action was possible despite the goodwill of the CDMH. Another obstacle is the partial knowledge of the law, including by the officials who must apply it. Thus, Decrees No 2018-1222 of 24 December 2018 laying down various simplification measures in the field of disability and No 2018-1294 of 27 December 2018 relating to the education allowance of the disabled child go in the right direction, giving certain rights without limitation of duration to persons with disabilities, but it still happens that some people who are clearly affected by these texts receive a waiting response from the administration: their interlocutors simply confess not to know these decrees, or reserve the right to assess whether they should be applied or not. Again, the cases that have been reported to me concern persons with a disability rate of at least 80%. They see their services suspended and are obliged to redo a whole process of reconstitution of application files, which is even more unbearable in the current context of the crisis of the covid-19. Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, what material means and training offer do you intend to deploy, so that the CDMH can provide an exemplary service to families hard hit by fate, who face multiple daily difficulties, and simply want the rights guaranteed by law to be granted to them within acceptable time limits?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u213	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u214	Mr. Villani, you're right. The delays and processing of the files you mention are completely unacceptable. For this reason, as soon as I took office, I considered administrative simplification and respect for the dignity of persons with disabilities to be a priority. Many actions have already been carried out, including, as you have pointed out, the creation of rights without limitation of duration. But we need to go further, especially in the application of the decrees you quote. In the framework of the national conference on disability, held on 11 February, an unprecedented method agreement, co-built between the State and the Assembly of the French Departments, was signed to optimize the management and operation of the 104 CDMHs. It took shape on 15 October, with the launch of an ambitious roadmap, entitled CDMH 2022, which I had the opportunity to present with the President of the Assembly of the French Departments, Dominique Bussereau. This plan of action and transformation, which must be deployed fairly throughout the country, shortens processing times and accelerates the allocation of life rights two major issues. We must also complete the computerization of the CDMH, as you have indicated, to ensure the development of online services, facilitate the renewal of applications and extend the validity of certain administrative documents. We must also ensure better territorial coordination and fulfil an objective of transparency vis-à-vis the people concerned. This is the whole meaning of the barometer that I have just launched, and which gives full visibility, department by department, on five key indicators of the CDMH – their number will increase further. To support this dynamic and enable the CDMH to strengthen their pilotage capabilities, the State is making a very strong commitment – it's the winner – by investing 25 million in 2021, of which 10 million will be spent on catching up with the biggest delays, thanks in particular to the support of a dedicated team within the CNSA – the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy. I would add that during this second health crisis, as was the case at the first, the CDMHs all remained open, and that we ensured the continuity of rights by extending them, in order to avoid disruptions of journeys. Everything must thus converge towards a single goal: to create a public service of access to rights that is simpler, more effective, more equitable between the State and the departments, which are leaders of solidarity policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u215	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u216	Madam Secretary of State, as you pointed out, plans have just been launched. It will be important to monitor indicators to measure improvements. As my question and your answer show, the problems are not at the level of law or decrees, but at the level of operational implementation on the ground, of system modernization, coordination and indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u217	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to raise her question, No. 1154, on the salary adjustment of medical and social workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u218	Care workers have been suffering for several years from a devalorisation of their profession, characterized in particular by low wages. Ségur was expected by health professionals, but also more generally by all care professionals. However, he provided only a partial response by not including staff working in the medical and social field. The staff of the medical and social institutions have alerted us a lot about this injustice, as well as some directors of institutions. This is the case, in my constituency, with those in the specialized home. Red land in Aiglun, annex of the hospital center of Digne-les-Bains. Of course, the National Assembly adopted at first reading of the PLFSS – the draft law on the financing of social security – for 2020, a long-term competition of 200 million euros in full year, directed towards the professions of home help and staff working in social institutions, to compensate for the lack of upgrading of their professions in the agreements of the Ségur. However, the concerns of these personnel remain deep; They simply ask to be treated fairly in relation to their colleagues with the same degree, whether they are caregivers, nurses, psychomotricians, psychologists or social workers – I certainly forget about that. Can you tell us where the negotiations with the Assemblée des départements de France are? The EUR 200 million in the budget seems to be very insufficient. It is expected that the departmental councils will finance part of the revalorisation, but in order for it to be up to the level agreed for hospital employees, they would have to make a financial effort which I fear they will not be able to. What measures, therefore, does the Government intend to take to upgrade the careers, trades and wages of all these health-care professionals in the medical and social sector? These are mainly women who perform tasks that are often ancillary, as you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u219	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u220	Mrs Bagarry, thank you for your attention to health professionals working in medical and social institutions in the disability sector. The upgrading of staff performing their duties in health facilities and EHPADs, provided for by the Ségur de la santé, has indeed created a form of misunderstanding among staff in charge of accompanying persons with disabilities and for such persons themselves. The Prime Minister and I, of course, are sensitive to the legitimate concerns of the sector's staff, and particularly to the demand for recognition expressed at a time when the health context adds additional tension to their working conditions. We are not unaware that the implementation of the health segurisations decided on today limits the capacity to support people with disabilities in institutions and services. During the last interdepartmental committee on disability, which he chaired last Monday, the Prime Minister expressed his concern about the effects of competition created by the Ségur, particularly for the professions in tension. He therefore announced the opening in the course of December – very soon, therefore – of work concerning the paramedical professionals of the sector, led by a qualified personality, Michel Laforcade, former managing director of the ARS – regional health agency – Nouvelle-Aquitaine, whom I met yesterday. The discussion with the trade unions and employers' federations, as well as with the departments that you have mentioned and which are leaders of solidarity policies, will have to make it possible to submit concrete proposals within two months. We will not open all construction sites immediately. It is therefore a question of identifying the priority issues, among the challenges in terms of attractiveness, penitence or professional image that the sector still faces. All the actors concerned must be able to engage in substantive work, up to these challenges. It is not just a question of revaluing, but of structurally changing the sector. In the face of the break-up of the statutes, which is a destabilizing factor, working conditions must be harmonised. It is an issue of improving and fluidizing the career paths of professionals. We owe them that much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u221	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u222	I welcome the launch of this consultation, Madam Secretary of State. I would stress, however, that there is an urgent need, when institutions are now competing, and there is a worrying increase in the number of resignations in this sector, with staff feeling abandoned. It is therefore necessary for the consultations to succeed and for the revalorisations to take place very quickly, from the beginning of 2021, otherwise the crisis in this sector may be even more serious than that experienced by the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u223	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-24-O1092.u224	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the proposal for a comprehensive security law; Further reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. The meeting is adjourned.
