ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of Mr Lenaïck Adam's proposal for a law on the allocation of seats for councillors in the French Guiana Assembly between the electoral sections (No. 3430, 3589).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u2	I call Mr Lenaïck Adam, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u3	I welcome the fact that the ultramarine territories, in particular Guyana, are once again in the spotlight in this House. The bill we are considering this evening deals with a specific issue. It is, however, essential, because its adoption is a condition for the successful holding of the next elections of councillors to the Assembly of Guyana, scheduled for March next year, because it is part of a pragmatic approach and tends to ensure better representation of the people of Guyana, a democratic imperative to which we are all committed. Since 1 January 2016, as you know, Guyana is a single territorial authority that exercises the powers assigned to a department and a region. It has a single assembly to deal with the affairs of the community through its deliberations. The Assembly has several powers, including the promotion of regional cooperation, economic, social, health, cultural and scientific development, and the preservation of Guyana's identity. The councillors at the French Guiana assembly are elected for six years by proportional two-round list voting. To ensure the stability of the assembly, the list having obtained an absolute majority in the first round or leading in the second round is awarded a majority bonus of eleven seats. The Assembly of Guyana is currently composed of fifty-one councillors, the number of seats being fixed according to the population of the territorial community. The Electoral Code specifies that this number should be increased to fifty-five if the population exceeds the threshold of 249,999 inhabitants, and to sixty-one if it exceeds that of 299,999 inhabitants. However, as of 1 January 2020, the estimates show more than 290,000 inhabitants. The first threshold has therefore been crossed, and the second may soon be crossed, given the demographic vitality of the territory. This increase in the number of advisers, which is automatic, is not without consequence. Indeed, Guyana forms a single constituency divided into eight electoral sections. The electoral code allocates the current fifty-one seats of councillors per section. This distribution now needs to be revised to reflect the change to fifty-five advisers. Rather than merely making such a technical adjustment, I would like us to go further by including in the law the rule of calculation allowing the distribution of seats. An order of the representative of the State in Guyana will implement it. The rule of calculation laid down in the law will specify that the seats are distributed among sections in proportion to their population, following the rule of the highest average. It will also be provided that each section has at least three seats. I also suggest, for the sake of consistency, that this development be extended to the majority premium. In the rule of law, no change in the majority premium is foreseen to accompany the increase in the number of seats for councillors. I propose to replace the word "11" in the electoral code with a constant fraction, 20% of seats. Thus, the number of seats granted under the majority premium will automatically increase from eleven to thirteen when the number of councillors reaches sixty-one, following the next population threshold crossing. The distribution of these eleven and then thirteen seats among the sections will follow the calculation rule I mentioned earlier. Each section will have at least one seat. This development is of dual interest. On the one hand, the legislator will no longer have to intervene at every demographic threshold crossing – in fact, the adoption of two successive laws for a simple technical adjustment is hardly justified. On the other hand, the prefect will now be able to update the divisional distribution at each renewal of the assembly – including when no population threshold has been crossed – in order to ensure better representation of the population. I have heard concerns expressed by some as to whether the prefect should be given the power to adjust both the distribution of seats for councillors between sections and the number of councillors at each demographic threshold crossing. I would point out, however, that the prefect will not be given any discretion in the event of an opportunity: he will confine himself to mechanical adjustments in accordance with a rule of calculation laid down in the law and in the light of the figures published by INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies. In addition, I naturally feel that the proposed scheme is respectful of the law. The Constitutional Council had the opportunity to clarify, in a decision of 6 October 1999, that the scope of the Act was "the delimitation of electoral districts" and "the number of seats allocated to each electoral district". In this case, it is the law that will set the rules governing the allocation of seats, and the prefect will have a related competence, since he will confine himself to applying the rule of calculation. I welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the consensus that has been reached on this bill. First of all, I should like to welcome the La République en marche group, which has agreed to include it in its reserved agenda. The majority were able to listen to Guyana's voice through my person. I would like to thank more broadly all the parliamentary groups who voted for the bill in committee. I would also like to mention the various elected representatives of Guyana who were involved in its drafting: local elected representatives, of course, but also Guyanese parliamentarians. I still have to say to the National Assembly all the pleasure I have had in working with Catherine Belrhiti, rapporteur of the text in the Senate. Since the passage of the law before the end of the year is essential for the successful election next spring, it is crucial that the two assemblies share the same vision. We have done this, and I believe that is the case. Mrs Belrhiti directly inspired some of the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Laws of our House. I thank her for this agreement. My last thanks will be for you, Mr. Minister for Overseas Affairs. The Government's support is crucial for the future of this bill, as it is for the development of the territory. I know you've spared no effort on either side. The Government initiated the accelerated procedure on 3 November 2020. This is an additional element that allows us to hope that the text will be adopted by the end of the year, since it allowed the Senate to put it on its agenda as early as December 14, in less than two weeks' time. I also know that you have alerted the Prefect of Guyana to prepare immediately the decree provided for in the text. So we can work quickly and well. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the meaning of this bill, which is intended to be consensual. She was a member of the Law Commission, where she received unanimous support. I hope that it will also win the accession of this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u5	I am not going back to the content of the bill. Its author and rapporteur, Member of Parliament for Guyana, who was willing to propose its inclusion in the agenda during this week of the National Assembly, has already made extensive reference to its technical and legal aspects, as well as to the elements of opportunity that led us to discuss them this evening. I would like to make three quick points. First of all, this bill reminds us very directly that Guyana is facing a huge demographic challenge: it is indeed the increase in the population in this French department that leads the legislator this evening to review the distribution of seats for councillors in the assembly of Guyana among the eight electoral sections. Of course, while the increase in the population of Guyana has an impact on the electoral ground, it also has an impact on infrastructure needs on a daily basis. A few weeks ago, we discussed the finance bill for 2021 here, through which we will devote new funding to the construction of schools and the development of certain network infrastructures, including road infrastructure. The increase in the population also has an impact on the caretakership of public services, the mobilization of internal security forces, and the determination of the number of teachers. We discussed these issues at length during the budget review. This mobilization is an important issue for us, in French Guiana and Mayotte, especially since the increase in the population goes hand in hand with its rejuvenation. We need to take stock of this challenge. I know that a number of questions arise about the population census conducted by INSEE – Mr Serville will probably come back to that. Of course, this case needs to be dealt with with in a timely manner. Secondly, there is a democratic issue. Guyana is the only territory in the Republic where the calendar of municipal elections has not been the same as elsewhere. Perhaps this has not been sufficiently recalled in this House, except, of course, by the two Guyanese Members present here. Of course, you know that, since it was an emergency law adopted by Parliament that allowed this time lag; It was the legislator who authorized the ministers of the interior and overseas to summon the voters at a later date. We must pay tribute to Guyanans and Guyanans for their resilience to the virus. On 14 July, Prime Minister Vuilletet and I made a field visit to report on the situation. The electoral calendar has been spread over time and, in some communes, the results of the first round have been cancelled so that electoral operations can take place this autumn. The smooth running of this process is to be welcomed. It was an unfortunate differentiation in the sense that it was dictated by the progression of the virus and by the health reality. In this context, the bill that you are considering this evening aims to restore a bit of democratic vitality to the Guyanese territory, since it is a question of increasing the number of seats for councillors in the French Guiana assembly and of allocating the additional seats among the electoral sections. Thirdly, I welcome the consultation that has taken place. This text was addressed to all the Guyanese elected representatives: MPs, Senators – Mrs.Phinera-Horth, who succeeded Mr.Karam, and Mr.Patient, who was re-elected – and elected local – I obviously have a thought for Rodolphe Alexandre, president of the community. It has not been the subject of any particular comment on their part. So I think I can say that it is consensual: it takes note of the situation as we know it. I would like to thank those who have organized this consultation, namely the Chair and the members of the Law Committee, with a special mention for the rapporteur, Lenaïck Adam, who has taken a large part in it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The alignment of the planets is therefore favourable, and I understand that the hosts of the Luxembourg Palace considered the bill with the same benevolence. Of course, the problem in this case was not the most insurmountable of those that the Territory could experience, but it was up to Parliament and the Government to resolve it. That is why I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this bill, which is supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u6	In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u7	The minister has just highlighted the clear consensus that exists in the consideration of this bill. This consensus owes a great deal to the remarkable work carried out by our colleague Lénaick Adam. We are simply about to vote for a text of efficiency and common sense in the service of democracy. Guyana is a unique territorial community that is still young, but has proved its strength – as the minister reminded us – in a difficult time when it was able to take on bold tasks. I am thinking in particular of the distribution of meals at the height of the crisis of the Covid-19. The community has also shown that it knows how to manage this territory, of which we know the diversity and difficulties, particularly with regard to illegal immigration and public services. This bill will make it possible to adapt the composition of the assembly of Guyana to the changes in the demography of the community, which is strong – this has been stressed – but also diverse. Indeed, if my figures are correct, the Great Crown section saw a 50% increase in its population, when the Savanes section recorded a 3% decrease. It is therefore necessary to adjust the composition of the assembly as closely as possible to the reality of the territories, as this depends on its democratic vitality. The assembly must be in the image of those it represents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Given the consensual nature of the provisions, the consideration of the realities of Guyana and the effectiveness – synonymous here with flexibility – of measures, and while the relative preventions role of the prefect have been lifted, the La République en marche group will vote this bill without any reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u8	Remarkable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u9	How effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u10	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u11	This proposal for a law on the allocation of seats for councillors in the French Guiana Assembly among the electoral sections is welcome, since it is necessary. Indeed, a few years ago, we included in the law the precise numerical distribution of the councillors of the assembly of Guyana between these different sections. However, we also anticipated that beyond a certain population threshold, the number of counsellors would increase. It appears that this threshold has been crossed since the last territorial elections. We must therefore increase the number of advisers, but the provisions currently in force do not state how the new advisers should be distributed among the sections. Going through the law has therefore become necessary. The solution chosen by this text seems to us to be perfectly acceptable and justified. It consists of not having a numerical picture and leaving it to the prefect, before each election, to draw up this distribution on the basis of a rule that we would indicate to him. It also allows for the adjustment of the composition by section between each election in the event of changes in the demographic balances internal to Guyana, without recourse to the law. Amendments adopted in committee, after negotiation with the Senate, were useful in clarifying the provisions of the bill. We welcome this work done in good intelligence, which will help to remove the pitfall of the timetable for final adoption of this text by the end of 2020. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Therefore, to the extent that this amendment is necessary and that the proposed rules meet the standards that the legislator had defended in the past, the Republican Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u12	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u13	At a time when our democracy is being tested by the health crisis, we must do everything we can to strengthen and strengthen it. The text we are looking at today is in this direction, in that it pursues a pragmatic objective of better representation of the people of Guyana in the forthcoming elections. It is a text of common sense, which the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats supports. As you know, no changes have been made since 2011 to the provisions of the electoral code relating to the local authorities of Guyana and Martinique, which provide, in particular, that the councillors of the assembly of Guyana are elected by proportional two-round list voting. As explained by the rapporteur, article L. 558-2 of the Electoral Code sets the number of seats for councillors according to the population of the territorial community. As this population has grown, it is necessary to increase the number of counsellors. Of course, this development is foreseen and does not imply the adoption of a new legislative provision. Nevertheless, the number of seats allocated to each of the eight sections must be revised by law. This has been recalled by each speaker, the demographic vitality of Guyana requires us to be in anticipation, since the continued growth of the Guyanese population will force us to re-examine soon by law to review the distribution of the councillors of the assembly of Guyana. We also have to legislate urgently, as the next elections are scheduled for March 2021. The law must therefore be promulgated before 1 January 2021. Our group agrees with the rapporteur's desire to take the opportunity of this coming deadline to change the electoral code in view of the demographic vitality of Guyana. The need for systematic review by the law is a constraint that can be overcome; that is the whole purpose of this bill. To adopt two laws successively and closely in order to revise the distribution of seats for councillors in the French Guiana Assembly is not relevant. Building on the arrangements provided for in this text seems to us to be more appropriate, more in line with the flexibility required in this area and more respectful of the proper representation of each of the sections in the French Guiana Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u14	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u15	The bill we are considering this evening deals with the distribution of seats for councillors in the deliberative assembly of the territorial community of Guyana. I will only take up some of the elements that have already been highlighted by previous speakers. This assembly will be renewed next March, which puts this bill on a particularly tight schedule. In order to be effective at the next renewal, it will have to be promulgated before 1 January 2021. The scope of this text is limited, since it is not intended to change the voting method, but to simplify the rules relating to the number of seats and their distribution. First of all, it should be remembered that the method of voting applied to Guyana's territorial elections is the proportional two-round list vote, with a majority preponderance, and, as has been said, Guyana is a single territorial community divided into eight electoral sections. Each list has eight sections, among which candidates are divided according to the number of seats allocated to each section. Next, article L. 558-2 of the Electoral Code sets an evolutionary number of councillors members of the assembly of Guyana and states that "if the population of the territorial community of Guyana exceeds 249999 inhabitants, the number of councillors at the assembly of Guyana is increased to fifty-five". However, the Guyanan population – this was also recalled – was estimated by INSEE at 268,700 as of January 1, 2020. Thus, in accordance with the electoral code, the number of councillors currently stands at fifty-one is expected to rise to fifty-five in the forthcoming territorial elections. The adoption of this bill is therefore necessary because of the mandatory revision of the number of councillors, but this text goes further in that it aims to include in the law the rules for calculating the distribution of seats between sections and to determine the number of seats resulting from the majority premium. It will thus avoid the use of the law at each crossing of a population threshold and revise the divisional distribution of seats at each renewal of the deliberative assembly, including when no population threshold has been crossed. This simplification seems interesting inasmuch as Guyana has a strong demographic vitality. In ten years, the population has increased by 10 per cent. Indeed, the birth rate in Guyana was 26.4 per thousand in 2018, compared to 11.1 per thousand in the departments of common law. Guyana is also the youngest French territory after Mayotte, with one in two people under 25 years of age. In so far as the law in force provides for a new distribution of seats after the crossing of another threshold and in view of the demographic dynamism of Guyana, a new legislative amendment would be necessary in a short time. The provisions of this bill will therefore serve to ease the procedures. The single article of the draft law thus provides for new rules of calculation and refers to a decree of the Prefect of Guyana specifying the number of seats provided for under the majority premium and the divisional distribution of seats according to the legal population of each of them. It should be recalled that these provisions are a priori in line with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which, in a decision of 6 October 1999, specified that the delimitation of electoral districts, the number of seats allocated to each electoral district and the method of voting fall within the scope of the law. The proposed text provides for the rules of calculation and refers only to the prefectural decree to specify the number of seats allocated in accordance with the rules laid down in the law, thus granting no discretion to the prefect. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This text, of which Mr Adam, Member of Parliament for Guyana, is the rapporteur, was the subject of prior consultation with local elected representatives and other Guyanese parliamentarians. During its review by the Law Commission, a consensus vote was held. It also responds to a specific problem and its single article does not depart from the specific objective assigned to it. Finally, to be effective, this bill must be passed today by our assembly, then quickly by the Senate and finally enacted by the end of the year, which requires some reactivity and vigilance in order to ensure that the text is properly implemented. Consequently, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u16	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u17	All the oceans are here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u18	Here we are looking at a text of common sense, which aims to change the distribution of seats for councillors, but not the method of voting, during the territorial elections in Guyana. The aim is to adapt the total number of seats to the demographic reality of this magnificent territory, marked by its vitality: people should feel represented in their assembly. If it is a common sense text, it is also because it sets a percentage of seats resulting from the majority premium, rather than a specific number, thus avoiding the introduction of new legislation to define it. However, I would like to recall the difficulties we are encountering in calculating the exact number of inhabitants living in Guyana and will call for vigilance on this point. I also regret that this text was only tabled on the eve of the regional election. Thank you, Minister, for resolving this issue urgently and I feel a collective will to bring the bill to a speedy conclusion. But this is a five-year election that we are now very close to. I would like for the next election, in 2026, the commitment that we make today, and that we have the word of the State, to have a compulsory census held at least two years before the election, which would allow for a better representativeness of the entire territory. In 2011, French Polynesia also adapted its voting method, which is the same as that of Guyana. French Polynesia is thus a unique territorial community, composed of eight electoral sections, which share the majority premium. This system provides visibility and allows for more territorial action within the community. I would point out that voters need clarity, visibility and transparency in the voting process. It is therefore imperative that in the subsequent elections, Guyanans should know as soon as possible the number of seats allocated per section. I would like to make this comment, which concerns the future and the elections of 2026, so that they are organised in the best conditions for all the inhabitants of Guyana. I conclude my remarks by thanking Yaël Braun-Pivet and Philippe Gosselin for the information report resulting from their mission to Guyana in 2019, which allowed us to better understand the issues related to this territory. Beyond the elections of 2021, we are all aware here of the need to ensure fair representation of the people. Overseas communities face major issues on a daily basis that are related to what we live in metropolitan France. The 4D bill, on decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration and decomplexation, which we should consider shortly, will probably provide an opportunity to look at the means and autonomy that could be granted to our territories. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, the Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u19	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u20	This bill is part of the timetable for the renewal of the Councillors of the French Guiana Assembly in March of next year. [[Smile]] I will make a rapid digression on this so-called overseas territory, with singular history and full of specificities. A small part of the vast South American continent, situated partly in the Amazon forest, bordering different countries, Guyana is far from Europe and its concerns. Far from us geographically, however, it is a part of the Republic. She has sometimes – a little too often – forgotten it and even abandoned it, to the point that some thought it was an island. From our European island, Corsica, we observe Guyana with interest, not because it would be an exotic, fascinating object – this is the look that we too often encounter in some metropolitans in search of escape, and we can deplore it – but because the Guyanans form a people, with all its components, even if it is difficult to recognize it. Indeed, in the absence of any amendment to the Constitution, this finding exposes us to be unjustly called communautarianism, in the name of the uniqueness of the French people. Let us return to this text. It is not intended, we understand, to change the method of voting for the election of councillors to the French Guiana assembly – a proportional two-round list vote, in a single electoral district divided into eight electoral divisions. We are well aware of this system, which allows the representation of the various political currents, because a similar mechanism is in force in Corsica, which is also a single community since 2018. In order to avoid the risk of institutional blockage in Guyana, a majority premium has been provided, as well as a threshold for the inclusion of the lists for the distribution of seats, fixed at 5 % of the votes cast in the constituency. As is well known, the Electoral Code sets the number of seats for councillors in the Assembly of Guyana according to the population and provides that the number of councillors shall increase from fifty-one to fifty-five if the population exceeds 249999 and then from fifty-five to sixty-one if it exceeds 299999 inhabitants. The first threshold has been crossed, since INSEE estimates that the Guyanese population is 2,90691. As a result of the increase in the total number of councillors, article L. 558-3 of the Electoral Code states that the number of seats allocated to each section should be revised. However, the bill goes further and that is a good thing. Indeed, it tends to include in the law the rules of calculation which govern the distribution of seats between the sections and which determine the number of seats resulting from the majority premium. While the current law provides for 11 seats to be allocated to the top-ranked list, regardless of the total number of seats in the assembly, the proposed law tends to substitute for this figure a rule of calculation setting the majority premium at 20 per cent of the total number of seats. The electoral code would indicate this only rule of calculation, and would no longer specify the distribution of the seats concerned by section. The number of seats granted under the majority premium and their distribution by section, depending on the legal population of each of them, will therefore have to be determined by a prefectural order, in accordance with the rules laid down by law. It will no longer be necessary to amend the law at each threshold crossing. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] In view of the great demographic vitality of Guyana's territory, this solution proposed by Mr Lenaïck Adam is welcome. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u21	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u22	This proposal for a law on the distribution of councillors and councillors of the assembly of Guyana among the electoral sections derives the consequences of the increase in the population of that territory. This is a technical, institutional adjustment which does not raise any particular difficulties and to which we are not opposed. This discussion gives us the opportunity to recall the context of such a reform and the remaining democratic shortcomings, endangering the institutional structure in the longer term. The necessary legislative adjustments in both the overseas and the country as a whole should not be limited to institutional adjustments; They must take into account the real conditions for the exercise of democratic rights by citizens. This is particularly the case in territories such as Guyana, which are unfortunately often left behind. Thus, one cannot forget to note the particularly serious health situation in this community. Since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, associations, trade unions, citizens' collectives and NGOs – non-governmental organizations – have alerted the Government to the specificities of the overseas territories and the particular risks they would face. In Guyana, as early as April 2020, the situation became increasingly worrying. However, the structural shortcomings of health systems, poverty and precariousness which particularly affect this region have not been sufficiently taken into account or anticipated; the people paid the price. The deplorable state of hospital infrastructure and the lack of staff have plunged the department into a crisis ten times worse than that passed through the metropolis, according to the president of Médecins du Monde. This association refers in particular to whole cantons deprived of access to water. As in Guadeloupe and Mayotte, the pipelines are in ruins, so that between 50% and 60% of the water in the networks is lost. This type of infrastructure and structural problems is unfortunately recurrent. In its report on poverty in France, the Observatoire des Inequalités noted that among the French departments, the overseas departments were the most affected by poverty, with Guyana and Mayotte in the most serious situation. Associations and collectives have also measured food insecurity in the precarised areas of Cayenne; the result, published by Public Health France, shows that the situation is alarming. The study carried out in July and August by the Red Cross, Médecins du monde, the Cayenne hospital centre and the ARS – the regional health agency – in Guyana's poor neighbourhoods is also instructive: 93 per cent of adults and 80 per cent of children had eaten less than three meals the day before the survey; For 45 per cent of adults and 32 per cent of children, it was even one meal. Nearly 40% of households had not received an adequate ration of energy the previous week; A decrease in consumption of fresh products was also noted. Finally, it should be remembered that half of the population lives below the poverty line – a figure largely undervalued, according to Lisa Cann, project manager at Médecins du Monde. Given the seriousness of the situation, we deplore the lack of resources committed, particularly in the budget of the Overseas Mission of the Finance Bill for 2021. You rightly point out that the increase in the population in Guyana justifies the increase in the number of seats in its deliberative assembly; The same should be done with regard to the budget. Taking into account the rise in the population in the territories concerned and inflation, inflation actually increased by only 1.82 %, mainly in the form of reductions in employer contributions. This is derisory given the situation and the 5.6 billion increase in tax expenditures that these territories will face. Without equal rights or social justice, democratic institutions will continue to run empty. This is true everywhere in France, and especially in the overseas territories like Guyana, which are historically and structurally disadvantaged. In 2017, the great social movement that shook this region recalled that, like the rockets, Guyana had to take off. To achieve this objective will require much more than the institutional adjustment proposed in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u23	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u24	We are gathered this evening to endorse the increase in the number of councillors at the French Guiana Assembly and their division by section, in the run-up to next year's elections. Our deliberative assembly will therefore increase from fifty-one to fifty-five councillors. At the current rate of population growth, a new course could even be reached in the following elections, since Guyana already had 290,000 inhabitants on 1 January. I use the conditional because our collective reflection on the constitutional evolution of Guyana opens the hope that the voting method currently in force in this territory will be used for the last time in the elections of 2021. Since almost everything has already been said, I will allow myself to broaden the vision of our assembly. You see, ladies and gentlemen, Guyana is ready today to take its flight to occupy its rightful place in the Republic, which will allow it to flourish with respect for its singularities. It is no longer possible to believe that Guyana, a territory of South America located more than 7,000 kilometres from Paris, can be administered as is Drôme, Nord or Pas-de-Calais. It is therefore time to recognize with humility, but with the sense of responsibility, the limits and even the failure of the assimilationist ideal which relegates the necessary territorial differentiation to the rank of a chimeric slogan. To affirm this is not a matter of ideology, but of absolute pragmatism. It is a proven fact that the current system is no longer working, if it has actually worked one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u26	We must therefore rethink the link between Guyana and Paris, in order to establish a new win-win relationship. The observation is without appeal: according to AFD – Agence française de développement – the development of Guyana is twenty-seven years behind the national average. For example, the Territory is ranked one hundred and twenty-third in the world for education; Its ranking is barely better for access to health, while the WHO – World Health Organization – ranks France as the world's leading in this area. This lack of development is reflected in the proliferation of protest movements, which culminated in March and April 2017. In response to our legitimate demands, the Guyana agreements signed on 21 April 2017 provided that the Government would be referred to the Congress of the Elected Members of Guyana under the conditions laid down in Article 72-4 of the Constitution. On 27 November 2018, the Congress of the Elected Representatives of Guyana adopted a resolution urging the territorial community of Guyana to refer the matter to the Prime Minister, on the one hand "for the organisation of a popular consultation with a view to a statutory evolution", and on the other "for the strengthening of the competences of the territorial community of Guyana through a law for Guyana". A sui generis article should be created, coming out of the straitjackets of articles 73 and 74 of the Constitution, as would have been allowed by the amendment I had tabled in the context of the constitutional reform of 2018, postponed following the Benalla case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u27	That Benalla case will have bothered us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u28	In fact, the idea is not new. I have a thought for Justin Catayée, my distant predecessor who, here in 1960, had adopted an amendment in order to open the door to reflection on the desirability of such a sui generis status. The idea now enjoys the support of the vast majority of representatives of the territory, as evidenced by the vote of the Congress of the elected representatives of Guyana in January 2020. This new statute will allow the transfer of new powers to the territorial community of Guyana in the areas of natural resource and land management, economics, taxation and culture; would also be concerned with the areas of regalism, such as foreign policy – in compliance, of course, with France's international commitments – security or immigration. It is not only the Guyanans who are in favour of it. During his second visit to Cayenne in April 1960, General de Gaulle had exclaimed: "It is in keeping with the nature of things that a country, which has its special character as yours and is, in short, remote, has a kind of autonomy proportionate to the conditions in which it must live". François Mitterrand, in 1993, Jacques Chirac, in March 1996, and Emmanuel Macron, more recently, successively voted in favour of a revision of the statutory framework – without, alas, ever going beyond the stage of the declaration of interest. For more than sixty years, we have been fighting for this right to differentiation and decomplexification to be granted to us. Is it not time to move forward on this issue, since we are obviously all in agreement, ladies and gentlemen? No one anymore believes that the future of overseas can be decided in Parisian offices. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the Prime Minister, who has still not responded to the referral to the territorial community of Guyana on 27 February, and to tell him that the Guyanans are ready to exercise the increased powers and local responsibility, in line with the realities of their territory and their aspirations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, Active ens and LT groups]] The 4D law that he promises us for the first half of 2021 offers us the chance to really initiate the debate on this statutory evolution. Failure to seize it would be a mistake, for the number of elected officials, a mere matter of form, cannot prevail over the substance of the question: that of the legal framework for the genuine development of our territory. So, as we already invited Felix Éboué in 1937, let us decide together to play the game of reason and wisdom on the background, since, obviously, we already agree on the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u29	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u30	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u31	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u32	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u33	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u34	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to reform adoption (No. 3161, 3590).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u35	This afternoon, the Assembly began the discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 434, which included an additional article before Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u36	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 434.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u37	He proposed that a national authority should be set up to coordinate practices, guide actors and create the conditions for a better homogeneity of adoption policy in France. Situations vary widely from department to department, especially for children with special needs. We believe that this national authority would improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u38	Mrs Monique Limon, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u39	The central authority for intercountry adoption provided for in the Hague Convention and in article L. 148-2 of the Code of Social Action and Families is the Mission of Intercountry Adoption, the MAI, located within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has competence in matters of intercountry adoption, since it ensures compliance with France's commitments under the Hague Convention; it develops and leads the strategy for intercountry adoption, in consultation with the French actors in intercountry adoption, namely the AFA – Agence française de l'adoption –, the OAA – authorized bodies for adoption – and the associations of adoptive parents and adopted children. The MAI also regulates and controls operators, issues authorizations, monitors private-law APOs and supports them, where appropriate, through grants. It also issues long-stay visa permits adopted by the consular services and finally ensures the collection and updating of information on adoption procedures, the conditions for adoption abroad and the difficulties encountered by our compatriots. As to whether to extend its competence to national adoption, it seems to me complicated, given international law and the current situation of the Mission within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would add that your amendment seems to me to have a greater place in the future child protection governance bill than in this bill. It is therefore a request for withdrawal, if not an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u40	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u41	Your intention is commendable, but the formulation and the vehicle are not the right ones. There is indeed a problem of territorial equity, and departments may need the support of a national body – that is the meaning, on the one hand, of an amendment to be tabled by the Government after article 11 quater, and, on the other hand, of the reform of the governance of child protection that we are undertaking with all the actors, the idea being to entrust to AFA, now centered on intercountry adoption, a national competence that allows it to assist the departments. An experiment is also under way in 25 departments, where AFA intervenes in support of national adoption. This experiment proves to be rather successful, we are in a generalization logic, and it is by this way that we will respond to your request. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u42	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u43	The rapporteur and the Minister referred to the draft law on early childhood protection governance. This is a new example of the method problem we are denouncing. I will not go back to the sluggish way in which we are working – the accelerated procedure, the absence of an impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State – but as we are discussing a bill to reform the passage, you are referring governance issues to a bill that is not known in terms of the ins and outs of it. All aspects are related, and we would like the minister to provide us with guidance on the overall framework, schedule, priorities and broad lines of this bill in preparation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u44	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u45	We agree with the statement, the objectives and the purpose of the amendment, but you tell us that we must wait for a new legislative vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u46	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] But you know as well as we do that the traffic jam will prevent us from dealing with this issue by the end of our mandate: either you agree to act now as we agree, or you disinterest and refer it back to the next legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u48	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u49	We do not understand that this text, which deals with a very important subject, is being considered in an accelerated procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u50	Very bad habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u51	There will therefore be no second reading, which would have been necessary. In addition, the Government is seeking authorization to legislate by ordinance to amend Title VIII of Book 1 of the Civil Code, entitled "Adoptive filiation". The Government had no doubt ended up seeing the major inconsistencies in the bill, but it did not give up on it and even asked for permission to break what remained of the principles of adoptive filiation. Let us be clear: in order to remove the ambiguity maintained by the Government, we would like to stress that adoption is first and foremost a matter of filiation and of the status of persons. It aims to give a child new parents, the sole holders of parental authority. As with all parents, parental authority ends at eighteen years of age, but filiation lasts all life and even beyond, since genealogy rests on it. In order to justify its request to proceed by order, the Government tells us that the last adoption law is that of 11 July 1966, which would no longer correspond to family, social and international developments. However, the National Assembly has passed more than eight consensual laws on the subject since 1966: you cannot rely on this argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What is the Government's view on this issue? Ordering is not a good policy on such a subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u54	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u55	I would like to share with you the negative feelings of several legal associations and professionals. Far be it from us, Madam rapporteur, to question your involvement, your sincerity and your colossal work for many months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u56	If they knew how to make a good policy, that would be true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u57	However, several actors share the feeling of a form of precipitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u59	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u60	This text reforms important parts of adoption in France, for example simple adoption, intercountry adoption or AOOs, to which it terminates. It's not nothing! There is a forum to discuss these issues: the Supreme Council of Adoption, which must be consulted and which must give an opinion under article L. 148-1, paragraph 3, of the Code of Social Action and Families. What about this, Madam rapporteur? On the other hand, and that is not nothing either, the text does not elaborate on certain subjects, such as racism in the adoption or issuance of visas. We hope that the discussions will address the substance of these acute problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u61	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u62	Every time, it's the same! Every time, the child is used as a pretext. Each time, it is at the heart of the debate, but not at the centre of the concerns. This was the case in the bioethics bill, which, in order to satisfy the desire of adults, deprives children of fatherhood, as if it were a breakthrough or, worse still, a victory. The text before us does not derogate from this rule. Once again, we reverse things. The text organizes a kind of dual filiation to give, once again, more rights to parents. It is so true that the concept of the best interests of the child was removed in committee, as this eviction was confirmed in public at the end of the afternoon. It was probably embarrassing, as it recalls that the fragility of the child obliges the adult and requires that the interest of the child fades before that of the child. To hell with the burdensome condition of marriage to be able to adopt a child! To hell with the will to give a child the same right as everyone else to have a father and a mother! But that is not all because, under the guise of simplification, you are also attacking OAA. Yet everyone recognizes their usefulness: they link the families applying for adoption with the departments. This is all the more true when the adopted child has a disability. Removing APOs means depriving themselves of organizations that are relevant: in 2019, 49% of children had not found families, while 14,000 families had been approved for adoption. Wanting to reform the law of adoption to adapt it to the evolution of our society is one thing, but if you do not correct the shot by returning to what you call "advances", it is to be feared that it is the well-being of the children that will recede.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u63	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u64	We have heard completely false comments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u65	Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u66	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...that have nothing to do with Article 1. Madam rapporteur, the La République en marche Group strongly supports your approach and your objective of improving and rendering all its letters of nobility to simple adoption, which is a very beautiful adoption. The simple qualifier must be understood in its most positive meaning, not in its pejorative sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u67	We want quiet debates, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u68	I would like to reread the text you have written...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u69	It's not the word of the messiah either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u70	... and that we have adopted in committee, because it says all the beauty of this gesture: "Simple adoption gives the adopted person a filiation that is added to his original filiation. The adopted person retains his or her rights in his or her family of origin. » It is a magnificent adoption, which allows a child to be accommodated in a home and a family, to have new parents without erasing his or her history. It's wonderful to be able to welcome someone with their history and for all their life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we will support your article, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u71	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 2, 43, 122, 215 and 356 to delete the article. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u72	Article 1 defines simple adoption by amending the first paragraph of Article 364 of the Civil Code. The evolution of the texts illustrates the legal DIY that I mentioned in the general discussion. The current version of this paragraph reads as follows: "The adopted person shall remain in his or her family of origin and shall retain all his or her rights, including hereditary rights. What problem does this writing pose that you want to change? In her proposal for a law, the rapporteur submits a new wording of the first paragraph of Article 364: "The child enjoys a double bond of filiation and retains all his rights in his family of origin. One realizes that the notion of a dual bond of filiation is problematic, so a new version is written, pending the next one. The text adopted by the committee reads as follows: "Simple adoption confers on the adopted person a filiation which is in addition to his or her original filiation. The adopted person retains his or her rights in his or her family of origin. » What are the differences? What are the contributions of this wording in relation to the current article 364? These articles of the Civil Code must be very precise. We would also like to see the guard of the seals present, because this matter falls within its competence. As with other texts, the absence of the Minister of Justice deprives us of light on very legal issues. Instead, we will consider Amendment No 491,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u73	Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u74	... which washes the entire title VIII of Book I of the Civil Code relating to the adoptive filiation, in a great movement of legal DIY. We propose the deletion of Article 1 because the new wording does not make any contribution to the current version of Article 364 of the Civil Code, apart from the effects of sleeves and announcements on so-called reclamations. This legal wind does not bring anything concrete to the interests of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u75	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u76	I can only agree with my colleague Xavier Breton.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u77	That's not surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u78	Article 1 would aim to enhance the value of simple adoption, but its reading leads to some confusion. Indeed, a dual bond of filiation implies in law that the child is connected to both parents. However, the article provides that the child shall retain his or her parentage of origin and the rights attached to him or her, while benefiting from the adoption of filiation. The current law, which provides that a child adopted in a simple manner shall retain his or her parentage and all his or her rights in his or her family of origin, should be borne in mind. There is no need to amend article 364 of the Civil Code, the wording of which is very clear. Section 1 of the bill complicates the law for nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u79	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u80	We can indeed ask ourselves how to write differently what already exists would value simple adoption, as Mrs Dubost claims. Article 1 seeks to clarify the ties of filiation in simple adoption. The redrafting of article 364 to which it proceeds is not only superfate, but also inopportune, because a dual bond of filiation means, in law, that the child is connected to his or her two parents. However, this is not the objective of article 1, which aims to ensure that the child retains his or her parentage and the rights attached to him or her, while enjoying an adoptive bond of filiation. Moreover, the current wording of the Civil Code, which we wish to maintain, fully reflects the specific nature of simple adoption, which is not to establish two ties of filiation, but to allow the adopted person to remain in his family of origin and to retain his rights there, without, however, preventing the adopters from being the only ones to exercise parental authority over the child, because, as a result of the adoption judgment, they are the parents of the child. The drafting of article 1 adopted in the committee would introduce complications and confusion that would hinder the exercise of parental authority by the adopters and make it more difficult for the child to assimilate the bond of filiation. You create complications, down from the goals that you had originally presented to us. It's paradoxical, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u81	Amendments Nos 215 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 356 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these amendments to delete the article?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u82	I can only give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments, which, by deleting Article 1, oppose, as Coralie Dubost pointed out, the valorisation of simple adoption, which I wish to include in this bill. The objective of Article 1 is indeed to ensure greater visibility of the contributions of simple adoption, in order to give it its rightful place and rightful place. The definition adopted in the Law Commission is very clear: "Simple adoption gives the adopted person a filiation that is in addition to his or her original filiation. The adopted person retains his or her rights in his or her family of origin. » This will allow a child, who has been placed for some time on social assistance for children, for example, to benefit, if this is his or her life project, from adoption and to live with adoptive parents, while maintaining his or her original filiation. I do not see what the problem is, so I give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u84	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u85	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u86	I have a question, or rather a request for clarification, concerning the relationship between the wording chosen for double filiation and article 310 of the Civil Code, in particular with regard to the regime of succession...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u87	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u88	...that is related to filiation. Under article 310, it is indeed filiation that allows the child to enter the family of each of the parents. If I apply this logic to the wording of Article 1, then dual filiation allows for the same inheritance rights in both families. Nevertheless, there are differences between married and pacsed couples: if parentage and succession are automatic in the first case, the same is not true for the child of a pacsé couple, because then the parents must recognize the child so that he or she can inherit. This is where things get complicated: on the one hand, it is explained that the double filiation created automatically gives right to inheritance, even if the marital regime of the couple is not marriage, and on the other hand, the current drafting of the civil code – if I understood it correctly – continues to impose on couples who are not married the recognition of the child so that the rights of succession are open to him. So I wonder how the two provisions are articulated, and if this does not create inequality, depending on the legal form of the matrimonial regime – marriage or PACS – since inheritance rights could be different.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u89	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u90	Double filiation is indeed important to enable the child to bear the names of the adopters by accolating it to the original one, which is retained. The article also states that the child retains all his or her rights in his or her family of origin. But I wonder: does he also keep all his duties towards his family of origin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u91	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u93	I am thinking in particular of the maintenance obligation. If dual filiation allows the child to retain his or her rights in both families, does he, however, have an obligation, if the family that gave up or entrusted him or her for adoption needs to be helped – for example to pay an EHPAD – to pay alimony to his or her parents of origin, who would never have taken care of him or her? Could they benefit from such a pension? It's a point I'd really like to get your light on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u94	You should vote for our amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u95	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u96	You say that dual filiation may cause confusion in the child. During the hearings conducted within the framework of the fact-finding mission on social assistance for children, children asked us to be vigilant and not to sacrifice the nuclear family. They told us that they would have liked to be able to keep their parents of origin, but still grow up in a family. I believe that simple adoption responds to this request, and I will therefore not vote in favour of the amendments to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u97	I have before me five amendments, Nos 267, 90, 209, 304 and 535, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 90, 209, 304 and 535 are identical. Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor in support of Amendment No 267.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u98	As has been noted, the first paragraph of article 364 of the Civil Code, in its current wording, provides that, in a simple adoption, the adopted person shall remain in his or her family of origin and retain all his or her rights, including hereditary rights. The new wording of this paragraph, contained in article 1, paragraph 2, of the proposed law, provides that simple adoption confers on the adopted person a filiation in addition to the original filiation, and that the adopted person retains his or her rights in his or her family of origin. The mention that the adopted person remains in his or her family of origin has therefore disappeared, and we do not understand why you do not want her to be retained in the law. For us, it is important, which is why we have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u99	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u100	In the course of the exchanges that have just taken place, it tends to clarify the definition of simple adoption, indicating that the adopted child retains his or her her hereditary rights. This is an important clarification to ensure maximum safety for adopted children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u101	Mr Pacôme Rupin's amendment No 209 is being defended. Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u102	In its current wording, article 364 of the Civil Code provides that the adopted person shall remain in his or her family of origin and shall retain all his or her rights, including hereditary rights. At first glance, this wording could lead to confusion, or at least not be sufficiently explicit. Indeed, unlike full adoption, simple adoption does not break the links between the adopted person and his or her family of origin: it gives him or her, in a way, a double bond of filiation. In this spirit, the new wording proposed by section 1 of the proposed law allows for further clarification of the specificity of this type of adoption. However, we consider it necessary to supplement this new definition by specifying that the adopted child retains rights, particularly hereditary rights, in his or her family of origin. In fact, in terms of inheritance, the simple adoptee is intended to inherit both his family of origin and his adoptive family – even if, for the latter, he will, apart from specific cases, be regarded as a third from a fiscal point of view, and therefore liable to transfer rights up to 60%. It would therefore be relevant to include some of the elements of the current definition, in force in the Civil Code, to complement the one proposed in article 1. The purpose of the proposed law was to promote the use of simple adoption, but it was still imperative to ensure that the best interests of the child were consistently ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u103	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 535.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u104	This is a precise amendment on hereditary rights. Indeed, you suspect that if several amendments have been tabled on various benches in the House, we have been asked on this subject. We therefore ask you the question: if we do not re-inscribe the mention "including hereditary rights" in the text, can you guarantee that these children's rights will be well preserved? Is it absolutely necessary to retain this formulation, and therefore to reintroduce it, or can you guarantee that, even in the absence of this clarification – which is in the word "in particular" – all the rights of the child, including hereditary rights, will be properly maintained? If so, we will of course withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u106	The removal of the reference to hereditary rights in the Civil Code, which we have adopted in the Committee on Laws, makes it possible to avoid that simple adoption is perceived as primarily of heritage interest, whereas it may represent a particularly suitable life project for some children. One of the specific effects of simple adoption should not be highlighted at the expense of others. I would point out that simple adoption can result in the change of the adopted's surname, the addition or substitution of the adopted's name, even if the original name can also be retained. It maintains prohibitions against marriage between ascendants and descendants and allies in the same line between the adoptee and his family of origin, while adding the same prohibitions against his new family. In addition, simple adoption results in a total transfer of parental authority to the adopter, resulting in a dual maintenance obligation of the adopter to his or her family of origin and adopter. Therefore, it does not seem to me justified to highlight one specific effect of simple adoption rather than another. Finally, let me remind you that if the adopted person retains his or her her hereditary rights in his or her family of origin – the reserving heir to his or her parents and heir to his or her ascendants and descendants of origin – he or she is also granted inheritance rights in the family of the adopter, as provided for in Chapter III of Title I of Book III of the Civil Code. He thus has the status of reservatory heir of the sole adopter, while having hereditary rights in the family of the adopter, not only in respect of the ascendants of the latter, but also of his collaterals and descendants. That's why I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u108	I understand your willingness to clarify the provisions that do not seem sufficiently clear to you, but in my view the proposed amendments do not meet this objective. As has been said on several occasions, the spirit of the reform proposed by Ms. Monique Limon, which is shared by the Government, is to value simple adoption. I believe that the debates in committee allowed – as you mentioned, the rapporteur – to develop this logic. Despite the 2016 law, professional practices and culture rooted in a number of judges and social workers make it difficult in practice to develop simple adoption. The objective of Article 1 is therefore to value it. In the present case, the new wording presents the advantage of clarity, mainly highlighting the dual bond of filiation, which is, as Coralie Dubost pointed out, the specificity of this form of adoption. The aim is therefore to emphasize the concept of filiation, and not to suggest that the maintenance of rights in the family of origin would be limited to the hereditary rights of the adopted person, or that the latter would be more important than his or her non-patrimonial rights. This would obviously reduce: it must be pointed out that the rights that the adopted person has to his or her family of origin are not called into question. With regard to her duties to the family of origin, we shall return to that, Mrs Goulet, on the occasion of the next amendment. The changes you are proposing do not seem desirable to us, as they could lead to confusion. On the contrary, we want to clarify and value simple adoption. For these reasons, I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendments; Otherwise, I will, on behalf of the Government, issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u109	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u110	Before I vote, I like to make things clear. As I understand the rapporteur's comments, double filiation is established both with regard to the original couple and with regard to the adopter – but not to his family. So, if you are adopted by a married couple, you automatically become heir to both members of the couple. On the other hand, you do not deal with Article 316 of the Civil Code, which states that in the context of a PACS, there is no presumption of paternity. Since filiation is not automatic, for it to be established, it is therefore necessary for the father to recognize the child – hence my question. You claim that dual filiation is established regardless of the marital regime of the couple, whether married or pacse, while in one case filiation is automatic, and not in the other. It's fundamentally different, so I want you to clarify things. How do you articulate dual filiation with article 316 of the Civil Code? If a child is adopted by a pacse couple tomorrow, will double filiation be exercised automatically with respect to the two adoptive parents or only with respect to one of the two? I see colleagues nodding their heads, as if the civil code...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u111	You're disconnected! Come into real life!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u112	True life, my dear colleague, is not to cheat the civil code, which has existed for two centuries, with its big hoofs, and then let the children collate inconsistencies! We do not touch hereditary rights, inheritance rights and the law of filiation as if they were completely anodized subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u113	You're in fiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u114	When you do law, you open the code! I would be happy, ladies and gentlemen, to have answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u115	Thanks for the lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u116	It's certainly not you who will be able to give me some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u117	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u118	When you are in real life and you write the law, you have to show a minimum of consistency. Either we consider that a bond of filiation, as set out in paragraph 2 of this article, carries with it the rights and duties associated with it: in which case it is not necessary to specify that the adopted person retains his rights in his family of origin, since the very existence of the bond of filiation implies it. Either we feel that there is a controversial matter, as Julien Aubert has shown by taking the example of the PACS, and care is taken to ensure that the adopted person retains his rights and duties in his family of origin; This means that they need to be detailed. Therefore, the amendments to include in the text the mention of property rights are just as legitimate as Amendment No 421 which I will defend in a moment, and which deals with duties, in particular with maintenance obligations. We have to go to the end of our reasoning. Again, either the mention of the bond of filiation is sufficient for understanding because it automatically implies the rights and duties of the child; or we specify everything; But we can't stay in the middle of the ford.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u119	Disconnected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u120	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u121	Others may ask the same questions as you, colleagues; It is therefore quite normal for us to raise them in this House. When a pacsed couple apply for simple adoption, there will not be a transformation of the ACAP into a marriage. Existing situations are not affected by this approach. Singles can adopt; a pacified person may stand alone as a candidate for adoption. All these situations are already regulated by the Civil Code. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Madam rapporteur, I would like to thank you for your clarification. You are logically telling us that today the civil code only mentions the effect of filiation in hereditary matters, whereas the establishment of this bond of filiation has no less than five effects, including the quality of patronymics and maintenance obligations. The Group of the European People's Party fully understands that we must list them all or not mention any of them, so the Republic on the move agrees to withdraw its amendment. We hope that our colleagues will do the same, in order to respect your desire to value the very beautiful double filiation brought about by simple adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u122	That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u123	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u124	In matters of inheritance, since the Act of 3 December 2001, the Civil Code no longer distinguishes children according to the marital status of the parents; In other words, the fact that the parents were married, pacified or cohabited has no bearing on the right of the children to inherit. It also makes no distinction between children adopted in plenary form and children born in carnal relationships between parents. On the other hand, adoptions in simple form do not have the same inheritance rights; But this difference is, once again, independent of the marital status of the parents. With regard to parental authority, since the Act of 4 March 2002, the Civil Code no longer discriminates between children on the basis of the marital status of their parents. In all cases, parental authority is joint and remains joint after the separation of the parents, unless, of course, the judge, in the child's interest, decides otherwise. The fact that filiation is established under Title VII of Book I of the Civil Code, i.e., the carnal code, or Title VIII, i.e. the adoption, does not, I repeat, lead to any difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u125	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 421.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u126	It shares the same logic as before. We take care to clarify in the text that this double bond of filiation carries all the rights; Therefore, it also carries with it all the duties, including those relating to maintenance. Honestly, I would not understand that this amendment is being rejected, because there is a question of the intelligibility of the future law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u128	The child does not retain all his or her obligations within his or her family of origin: one of the effects of simple adoption is precisely the transfer of parental authority. According to article 365 of the Civil Code, "the adopter is solely invested in respect of the adoptee of all rights of parental authority, including the right to consent to the marriage of the adoptee". Parents of origin are therefore excluded and lose all their prerogatives in this regard. The adopted minor has a general duty of good conduct and respect towards his new parents, who will be held accountable for the acts he commits. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u130	I will answer both Mr Brindeau and Mrs Goulet on the maintenance obligation. Mr. Brindeau, your statement is partially inaccurate; Your amendment would not be a source of clarity, but a source of confusion. According to article 367 of the Civil Code, an adopted person is exempt from any maintenance obligation towards his or her parents by birth when he or she has been admitted as a pupil of the State or removed from his or her family environment for at least 36 months accumulated during the first 12 years of his or her life. Moreover, it is not always subject to this obligation: for example, in order to take up the case mentioned by Mrs Goulet, the court may exempt him from paying a pension to one of his parents who has previously rendered himself unworthy...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u131	When does this happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u132	Very regularly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u133	... and who is in need. Once again, the adoption of this amendment would introduce some confusion into these provisions. The Government's opinion would therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u134	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u135	The Secretary of State has just recalled the bulk of the adoptee's maintenance obligations to his family of origin. In this regard, article 367 of the Civil Code is clear, which relieves the adoptee of these obligations if he is placed or pupil of the nation, as are the general provisions of article 207, above all, which also bind him in case of indignity or ingratitude of the parent. Conversely, parents of origin are subsidiary to intervention in favour of the child, with the adopters acting first. All of this is therefore perfectly settled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u136	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u137	I understand, Mr. Secretary of State, but the situation you are describing corresponds to the general case of relief from maintenance, whether or not the child has been adopted. That's not the point! We deal with parallelism of forms in the writing of law. If you enter in paragraph 2 of this Article 1 that the adopted person retains his rights, heard within the meaning of all property or other rights, you disaggregate the legal...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u138	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u139	He's right! Only homework isn't your thing. You only have rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u140	... by not mentioning his duties. Again, it is a question of the intelligibility of the law. The exceptions you quote continue to apply anyway! Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u141	On Article 1, I am seized by the Group of the Republicans of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u142	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these explanations. We will vote against this amendment, because it would be intolerable for a child to be subject to four maintenance obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u143	He's already submitted to it! We just told you we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u144	This was in the best interests of my previous intervention: the adoptee must not have a maintenance obligation towards his parents of origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u145	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u146	This discussion is very interesting; It shows once again the value of a number of provisions of the Civil Code. As it stands, the beginning of article 364 reads as follows: "The adopted person remains in his family of origin and retains all his rights there, including his hereditary rights. The rewriting that you propose removes this notion of "hereditary rights", that is, the very notion of heredity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u147	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u148	So you're here touching something extremely deep. In reality, you want to cause an anthropological and societal rupture that, moreover, you refuse to assume. That is why the vast majority of our group can only oppose this rewriting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u149	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u150	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 99 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 80 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u151	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 92, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u152	The purpose of this amendment is to create an exception to the principle that "the adopter is solely invested in the adoption of all parental rights", to quote article 365 of the Civil Code. In the event of an agreement between the adopter(s) and the family of origin, parental authority could be exercised jointly. The aim of this amendment is to recognise and promote co-parentality, especially where there is not only one or two people who have a direct influence on the child, but three, for example. The total or partial delegation of parental authority provided for in article 377-1 of the Civil Code is now insufficient. I repeat, the whole challenge is to recognize all families as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u154	This amendment provides that in the case of simple adoption, if there is agreement between the adopters and the family of origin, parental authority over the adoptee may be exercised jointly. The Commission's opinion will be unfavourable, since one of the specific features of simple adoption lies precisely in the fact that parental authority is fully transferred to the adopter, with parents of origin losing all their prerogatives in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u156	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u157	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u158	The few out-of-topics that took place in the speeches that preceded the discussion of Rule 1e r have made it clear that the most progressive of us wanted to train beyond the line we are defending. The past forty years have been marked by profound changes in marital patterns and ways of making families: the proliferation of mixed couples and intercountry adoptions, the increasing use of reproductive medical assistance, the emergence of homosexuality and single parenthood. It is time for us to face the society of the twenty-first century, as it is, and to recognize the equal dignity of all families. Some argue that marriage, because it would be long-term – which is contradicted by the number of divorces – would provide a more protective stability of the child's interest. In fact, the best protection for the child is, above all, to be accommodated in a home that will bathe him with love and attention and meet all his needs, regardless of the sex, sexual orientation or manner of conjugality of his parents. Every year, in our country, children – especially fratries, or children with special needs – expect only one thing: to be adopted by a loving family. The best protection of children also means ensuring that nothing in the law could turn them into ghosts of the Republic, and helping them find the family they are looking for. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] That is why I would like to recall the full commitment of the Republic Group in the fight against discrimination that undermines the Republican Pact. The sexual orientation, marital status or gender identity of the parents does not lead to any contraindications to parenthood. We must therefore ensure the effectiveness of rights and move from formal equality to real equality, before adoption, among all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u159	We're more concerned with adult desires than with children's rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u160	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u161	When considering Article 2, it seems to me important to stress first that our role is not to judge individual choices. Everyone leads his life as he pleases, marries, concludes a PACS or lives in a free union as he pleases. We agree on this point. The question is to determine which side of the debate is being considered. On the side of adults, there is a problem of discrimination aimed at denouncing and abolishing differences between married and non-married couples. That is what you are doing, colleagues. But we can also put ourselves on the side of children. Again, dear colleague Gérard, we are not here to make considerations about love – love, it is not written in the law – but to write the law and choose the most protective legal status.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u162	To protect the children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u163	It is true that life sometimes leads couples to separation, but marriage also has a great interest, which is divorce, because it is protective of the weakest. If the marriage framework had been initially chosen for the adoption of children, it was because it created stability. When we discussed it in committee, the rapporteur told us that she would have to look at the differences between the statutes. But I was hoping that it would have been done before the text was written! I would like to quote from what she said in committee: "I would like to look at the legal differences in each statute and their consequences in terms of rights and duties, and to report back to you. "Once again, I would like to commit myself to looking at the legal consequences of the different forms of union. One might have thought that this work on the pros and cons of marriage, ACAP and cohabitation would be done before, and that we could have made an informed choice in the interests of the child. It is clear that the problem has been considered differently from the point of view of discrimination, which leads to a flawed reasoning that does not take into account the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u164	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u165	We are discussing a text on parents who propose to adopt children and on the children they adopt. Article 2 aims to break with hypocrisy: in pacs or cohabiting couples, only one of the two partners is a candidate, as a single person, for adoption. This article will bring greater safety to children, since they will actually have two parents registered as such, not one adoptive parent and one accompanying parent. On the other hand, I regret – and I do not understand – that the amendments I had tabled to extend the panel of adoptable children were not considered admissible. Indeed, the number of parents eligible for approval will increase, but the number of children eligible for adoption will not have increased. I'd like to talk to you about the parents and children involved. They may come from very severely disabled couples, or sometimes simply from a mother in this situation, who will never be able to take care of them. Without their families from motherhood, these children then spend eighteen years under the yoke of the ESA, the social assistance for children, because their loving parents do not abandon them. I have therefore sought to introduce into the text the concept of parental incapacity, so that children born within a failing parenting couple can be the subject of a simple adoption. I do not understand why the amendment that I tabled to that effect would be a piece of legislation, as I have been told, because the bill deals with adoptions and adoptions. My amendment was precisely about the adoptions, and I am not allowed to debate them. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Secretary of State, this is a subject that we have already discussed together. There is a real need for action to ensure that children in our country do not spend eighteen years at the ESA, who are tied up from one foster family to another, while so many parents want to give them a home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u166	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u167	Article 2 merely corresponds the right to the state of our society, to the state of social and human relations and to the way in which the couple and the family are defined today. I had the privilege, along with other colleagues, to vote on the so-called Taubira Act of 17 May 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples and thus paving the way for adoption of the spouse's child. If adopted, the text we are discussing will give the possibility to pacs or cohabiting couples to adopt. New section 343 of the Civil Code, as amended by this bill, is very clear in this regard. In 2018, 209,000 civil pacts of solidarity were concluded, of which just over 8600 – or 4% – were concluded between persons of the same sex, and 228000 marriages were celebrated. In the same year, according to Ministry of Justice figures, less than 1 per cent of adopters were same-sex couples. I recall that a few months ago, officials were prosecuted for having refused adoption by a homosexual couple on the pretext that it was "atypical", or that such a couple should leave its place to a couple composed of a father and a mother, younger and "more stable". [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is time, it seems to me, to ensure that same-sex couples no longer encounter difficulties in adopting. The rapporteur has made it very clear that marriage is not, as such, a guarantee of stability. In real life, and not in the dream life that some imagine, a significant number of applicants, although they have filed their request alone, are already carrying out a couple project. By adopting article 2, we will make it more obvious and less discussed the will of stable couples, even unmarried couples, to carry out a family project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u168	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u169	We must adapt to his time, of course, but allow me at this moment to summon the human nature, the conscience of the peoples and the experience of each of us. There was a time, in my life, when I fought for adoptions. I did not understand the calvary imposed on the unfortunate parents answering countless times the same questions which, in a way, destroyed them a little. One day, social networks appeared and I saw, in families I know well, children asking, "Why did you kidnap me on the streets of Saigon? That's where I should be," or, "Why am I not on the streets of Algiers? Isn't that for your personal comfort? » When these questions arise at the age of 13, they are confirmed at the age of 15 and do not stop at the age of 18, it is terrible. Today, I wonder about the reactions of the little boy or girl who will have two dads, two moms, or just one of them. Can he avoid wondering if it was for their personal comfort that his parents brought him, what his role in life is and why he came here?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u170	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 45, 49, 85, 123, 203 and 357 to delete Article 2. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u171	If you allow me, Mr President, I shall also defend Amendment No 49 by Mrs Lorho.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u172	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u173	According to the explanatory memorandum, Article 2 is intended to "disconnect the adoption of the adopter's marital status to allow adoption in the event of a civil pact of solidarity or cohabitation, thus ending a difference in treatment in the face of adoption between heterosexual and homosexual married couples and heterosexual and homosexual unmarried couples". Further on, it is stated that "the purpose of this bill is therefore to strengthen and secure the use of adoption as a child protection tool, when it is in the interest of the child concerned, and only in his or her interest. » This raises an obvious question: how does opening up adoption to remove the differences between heterosexual and gay married couples and heterosexual and homosexual unmarried couples strengthen and secure adoption? This is an important question to which I have still not found an answer. It actually seems to me that this measure is a sophism that once again serves only the interests of adults who want to have a child by forgetting the interests of the child – that of being adopted by a married couple, guaranteeing a certain family stability, composed preferably of a man and a woman...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u174	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u175	[[MM. Mounir Mahjoubi and Pacôme Rupin protest]] ...to enable him to grow up in a family cell built around the otherness between man and woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u176	It's not a big word, "otherness"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u177	I know that my remarks bother you, but the otherness between man and woman exists, and this is a notion that regularly returns to the work of many child psychiatrists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u178	Go and see them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u179	It seems to me that adoption is not intended to ensure equality between adults regardless of their choice of life, which concerns them and on which we make no judgment. This choice of life does not have to affect the best interests of the child, who is – or should be – the sole purpose of adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u180	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u181	With section 2 of this bill, you are actually trying to erase the difference between marriage, cohabitation and the PACS. Even if you did not wish to describe the interests of the child as "superior" in the title of your text, this interest is no less important – and what is the interests of the child, if not stability? Perhaps you will elaborate on this, but there are indeed legal differences between the three statutes I have mentioned. As has been said, the breakdown of a marriage through divorce results in protective legal consequences for the parents, so also for their children – I am thinking of the parent who will devote himself to the education of the children, including when they have been adopted. When a married couple comes to divorce, the fact that he or she has been married has important consequences for the children he or she has adopted, particularly in terms of the compensatory benefit, on which part of the child's upbringing depends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u182	What you're saying is wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u183	[[Xavier Breton applauds]] So it seems to me that you are making a serious mistake with this article, which may meet the expectations of adults, but certainly not that of children and the interest they have in growing up in a stable family environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u184	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u185	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u186	Indeed, with section 2, you are trying to put on an equal footing the ACAP, the cohabitation and the marriage. In fact, the main purpose of the adoption procedure is to protect the child and, in this context, the legal status of the couple formed by the parents is not insignificant. Thus, the civil pact of solidarity can be broken unilaterally by letter of bailiff. As for cohabitation, it is of its essence that it can be broken at any time without formalities. In both cases, the breakdown will not give rise to legal proceedings. A divorce, on the contrary, will require the intervention of a judge, whose role will be to protect the child and to take account of his or her interests. It is not a question of establishing a value judgment, but simply of finding that, from the point of view of the protection of children, the three legal regimes of cohabitation, PACS and marriage will not have the same consequences for the children concerned. Society has a special responsibility for children in its care who are awaiting adoption. It is therefore the responsibility of society to guarantee these children the most stable legal configuration. This argument, already put forward in the discussions on marriage for all, demonstrates indisputably that marriage is the legal configuration that provides children with the best legal protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u187	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u188	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u189	[[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs, as well as the Secretary of State for Children and Families, rise]] [[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs, as well as the Secretary of State, observe a minute of silence]] Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard of the death of President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. The President of the National Assembly will of course pay tribute to him, but I suggest that you observe, in his memory, a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u190	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u191	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u192	We are going back to the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u193	I would remind you that we were in the process of amending Article 2. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u194	Allow me, Mr President, to express the emotion of the Republican Group at the announcement of the disappearance of President Giscard d'Estaing. I have at this moment a very special thought for his son Louis who, succeeding his father in the third riding of Puy-de-Dôme, sat with us between 2002 and 2012. He is still mayor of Chamalières and I am still with him at the regional council Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. As for Amendment No 203 of the Republican Group, it is intended to delete Article 2. Adoption is a procedure whose primary role is to protect the child. This is why the stability and the mode of union chosen by the applicants for adoption are not anodizing: there can be no equality between couples united by different legal ties. If married or unmarried persons are free to have children, society has a special responsibility for the children entrusted to it and awaiting adoption. It is therefore up to the child to ensure the most relevant configuration for him/her. In these circumstances, it is perfectly justified that it requires applicants for adoption to enjoy a clear status, governed by a framework defined by law, in particular for the dissolution of their union. It is important to have in mind the purpose of child protection. It cannot simply be regarded as an affirmation of principle without concrete involvement. Thus the chosen way of life, in the legal sense of the term, necessarily has an impact on the protection of the child. The PACS can be broken unilaterally by letter from the bailiff, without even the assistance of a lawyer. The argument applies a fortiori to cohabitation, which can be broken at any time – it is even the principle on which this common way of life is based: total freedom of rupture. In addition, in the event of a breakdown of a PACS or a cohabitation, there is no legal procedure. However, in a divorce, the role of the judge is to protect the child and to take into account his or her interests. The adoption is first conjugal. Marriage, a legally stable union, is likely to offer the adopted person, weakened by his or her history, the most secure framework and the best suited to his or her needs. The difference we make refers not to the personal qualities of a couple but to the legal status of their union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u195	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u196	With your permission, Mr President, I will indeed defend Mr Bazin's amendment. I do not believe that consideration should be given to the homosexual or heterosexual nature of couples because, for several years, we have voluntarily aligned the rights attached to marriage and other types of contracts, without differences in sexual orientation. In reality, the question is: what do we want to do with marriage, which is not a contract but an institution? The legislative process at work for several years has been to align all CAPS rules with those of marriage so that there are no more major differences between the two. So what's the point of maintaining two types of union? Why? If adoption is linked to marriage, it brings more stability: it is more difficult to break it theoretically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u197	Theoretically!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u198	It is therefore a guarantee of stability for the child. At the time of the ACAP debate, I was a young intern with a member of Parliament for the RPR.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u199	Intern, you still are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u200	The arguments of our predecessors in his favour were flexibility, lack of publicity: union can be formed and loosened much more easily, they stressed. People who wish to adopt can very well get married: it is absolutely not forbidden! Discrimination is based on common characteristics, and rights and duties are attached to each type of organization. I am struck, when I develop these arguments, to hear some Members fulmining and apostropher, as if my remarks were not common sense. But you do not explain why there would be equality between these two ways of organizing two adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u201	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u202	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I will give a comprehensive reply to the amendments which are intended to delete the article and those which are intended to delete paragraphs from it, because they have the same objective. My opinion can only be unfavourable, because these amendments go back to the reform that I am defending, which consists of ending the difference in treatment, in the face of adoption, between married couples – whether heterosexual or homosexual – and unmarried couples – whether of the same sex or of different sexes. The aim is to modernise the adoption law in order to adapt it to changes in society, which in no way harms the interests of the child. Fortunately, the adoption project is judged not by their marital status, but by their commitment, qualities and maturity in welcoming a child. For all these reasons, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u203	No arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u205	It is unfavourable on all the deletion amendments, for at least three reasons. The first reason is that we are honouring our commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u206	That's a good argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u207	For politicians, respecting his word and his commitments is indeed a fairly laudable argument, Mr Aubert.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u208	He doesn't know what that means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u209	We are not here to redo the game of bioethics law; I appreciated the discussions we had on this occasion, particularly with you, Mr Breton: despite our disagreements, we all had the merit of conviction and consistency. At the time, the custody of the seals, Ms. Nicole Belloubet, and the Government had undertaken to include in this bill the possibility of adopting for unmarried couples. We are on the rendezvous and keep this commitment. The second reason is that your amendments are out of step with reality: today, filiation and conjugality are two distinct issues. The opening of adoption to unmarried couples ensures equality of rights between couples, whether married, pacified or in cohabitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u210	It is therefore a right to the child!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u211	The third reason is the interest of the child. Currently, when an unmarried couple wishes to adopt, only one of the two members has the option.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u212	The best interests of the child come last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u213	No, sir. If a tragedy occurs and the adopted couple member dies, what happens to the child, his rights and his safety? By allowing adoption by unmarried couples, we will secure the situation, the path and the rights of the child. It is therefore as much in the name of equality between couples as in the name of the interests of the child that article 2 must be adopted. I come to Mrs Perrine Goulet's question about the amendments, which are considered inadmissible, relating to parental neglect. We have a fundamental difference of opinion, M.P.: Let's not send a signal that a mentally impaired person would be unable to be a parent. It is not because you have a mental disability that you cannot be a parent. This is the whole meaning of the project that we are carrying out as part of the "first 1000 days" approach: as early as 2021, in accordance with the draft law on the financing of social security that you voted for, a major investment will be devoted to perinatal psychiatry; Mother-child units and mobile perinatal psychiatry teams will be created to better identify and accompany parents and women suffering from mental and psychiatric problems. As for parents who suffer from a mental impairment that does not allow them to look after their child – an example you have cited – they are initially provided with educational assistance. Delegation of parental authority is also possible. Since the 2016 Child Protection Act, the removal of parental authority for parental neglect has been subject to objective criteria. The scope of persons who may initiate such proceedings has been extended, in particular to children's welfare institutions – they even have an obligation to initiate proceedings in the event of abandonment, in the interests of the child. In addition, the situation of the child must be regularly examined in order to determine whether a procedure for parental neglect which makes adoption possible is necessary. In other words, the famous postcard sent by failing parents before the decisive year came to an end – it was a reality, and you know it – is no longer an argument. It is true that professional practices have not always evolved accordingly, and a certain cultural anchor persists. However, between 2016 and 2018, the number of parental withdrawal returns increased by 72%, from about 250 to 650. We are on the right track, a path through which more children protected by social assistance for children will be adopted and adopted – that is the whole meaning of the bill, in particular its article 1. I'm sorry I've been a little long, but this is important; It is at the heart of the text and our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u214	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u215	Your remarks are consistent and logical, Secretary of State... I will take up the three points of your argument. First, you invoke respect for the word given during the consideration of the bioethics bill. Of which act. We see the kind of speech and the type of debate you are in: you give a societal response, not a legal response. You are arguing for equal rights: it is a perfectly defensible and honourable point of view, but, therefore, what about the rights of the child? You value the equality of adults; Yet adoption is not about recognizing rights to parents, it is about giving parents to a child: the process is very different. Secondly, you mention the equality of couples. For my part, I do not enter into the emotional choices – or other – of couples: I do not care whether the parents are heterosexual or homosexual. However, you are making a very serious mistake, which is not legal in nature, by postulating equality between married, pacsated and cohabiting couples. Of course not! This explanation is not on the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u216	That's obviously not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u217	The Civil Code details precisely the rights and duties of married couples; the registrar read it even during the celebration of the marriage. A PACS is not the equivalent of a marriage, since it makes possible what some call repudiation; It's a contract that can be broken unilaterally. He therefore offers no security, and no judge interferes with the breakdown of a PACS. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you only invoke the best interests of the child as a third point, after stating three errors. We may have different views and logics, but at least make sure that the building holds legal and protects the best interests of the child, rather than defending equality of rights – an important subject, but not in the debate we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u218	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u219	I promised myself to respond calmly but, since you are giving us lessons of coherence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u220	Law lessons, at least!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u221	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... allow me to turn the lesson back to you very cordially and in a very republican way. You recognize that respect for the word given by a political leader is important, and you come back to the debate on the bioethics bill. And remember: during these debates, you defended the unconditional adoption of marriage for children from the least developed countries – what senators adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u222	You know very well that these were back-up amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u223	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] You defended this principle on these benches a few months ago; But today, you refuse it in another text, for other situations: where is coherence? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is for political coherence. [[New protests on several benches of the LR group]] On the merits, you say that you are concerned about the interests of the child, and in the same sentence you consider it problematic to produce legal and statutory inequality between couples. In doing so, you no longer speak of the child, but of the spouses; you've moved your cursor. Your remarks are confusing. You know perfectly well that in France, if you are a father or mother, whatever your status – married, divorced, pacsé, concubine or single – you have rights and duties strictly identical to your child – whatever the filiation, falling under Title VII or Title VIII of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u224	I wasn't talking about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u225	[[Same movements]] Don't get confused. When a married, pacified or cohabiting couple separates, each member retains his or her responsibilities to his or her child. Your argument is therefore not legally valid, and you know that. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, there is no question here of equality between couples for their sexual orientation, but of equal access to parenthood and filiation in the context of adoption. We are talking about equal access to and application for adoption, so that children can benefit from all the families that open up to them, in their interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u226	You're smoking us, Mrs. Dubost!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u227	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u228	Its purpose is to ensure maximum stability for the child by allowing him/her to be adopted only by a couple, and not by a single person, with the exception of a family member, provided that this is in the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child are the only valid argument. Already, in the law of bioethics – since you refer to it – we had tried – in vain, I regret it – to highlight the best interests of the child, when you were talking about the desire of the child or the right to the child. It is a real philosophical difference and a real divergence of opinion. I am trying to remedy this by this amendment, explaining that adoption can only be requested by a single person when he or she is a relative or ally of the adopted person.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u230	Unfavorable. Your amendment is intended to abolish adoption by a single person, unless it is a parent or ally of the adopted person. Let me give you a few figures: in 2018, six out of ten plenary adopters were single adopters, mostly women; In 2007, eight out of ten full-time adopters were couples. It does not seem appropriate to remove this possibility; So my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u232	It does not seem appropriate, Madam Member, to go back twenty-four years – since that is neither more nor less, what you are proposing. It should be recalled that the possibility for a single person to adopt dates from the law of 5 July 1996. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u233	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u234	I was somewhat surprised by your argument. You say that in the event of separation the obligations generated are the same after a divorce or a rupture of PACS. Your vision of the family is essentially legal, that is, you base all your reflection on the failure of the family project. That's not what I'm interested in when I do the law. The best interests of the child, a term that might be appropriate for you to define, is obviously that the family remains united,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u235	You don't know that in advance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u236	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ...that he is raised in a family project, and not that he finds himself stunned between a father and a mother, or two fathers or two mothers who are separated. By basing your teleological reflection on this, you base a law on failure. You should not talk about the best interests of the child, but about the best interests of the child. From my point of view, the first best interest of the child is not the diversity of families but stability, while you consider it diversity and you invoke equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u237	Love!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u238	Please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u239	Dear colleague Mahjoubi, I assure you that there is no point in screaming like a gorilla. Remember that you have been a member of the Government: remain calm and courteous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u240	What about love?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u241	At your age, my dear sir, you should know that we don't legislate on love.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u242	That's what you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u243	Despite all the powers that are yours, you cannot legislate on love: you can only write the law. At least try to do consistent things, based on the success of family projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u244	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u245	I am not going back twenty-four years, Secretary of State, but to the best interests of the child. We are talking about the possibility, for single people – that is, single-parent families – of adopting a child. But you explained to us in length, broadly and across, just a few months ago, that these families are the ones most affected by poverty and that you want to remedy them. Where is the best interest of the child when it is promoted by a single parent family?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u246	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u247	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] What does it matter that it already does? I'm not going back twenty-four years, I'm going back to the best interests of the child! I'm interested in knowing what's good for the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u248	The best interest of the child is to be loved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u249	When we discuss legislation that interests the child, the only question is whether what we are deciding is right for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u250	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u251	[[Same movements]] Knowing whether it's good for couples, for people alone, whether they're gay or heterosexual, doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u252	We are very good families!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u253	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u254	God, if you could stop yelling for five minutes, our debates would be easier. Perhaps, I said, one might wonder whether it is better for a child who has experienced difficult times in life to be adopted by a stable family home rather than by a single parent home, which, by definition, will probably experience more difficulties than another.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u255	What time are the vespers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u256	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u257	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I want to reassure Ms Ménard: the interests of the child are at the heart of the articles of the bill, and any decision to adopt is made in the interests of the child. Every candidate, whether in a couple or single person, must obtain an approval which will precisely determine the educational abilities, and this always in the interests of the child. It is not because you stop talking about the interests of the child, to the right of the House, that you are the owners of the child. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Above all, Mr. Aubert, it is not because one repeats a truth that it becomes a truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u258	Expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u259	Please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u260	It was you who said earlier that the speakers who had the floor should be allowed to speak, Mr Aubert. So I thank you for applying this principle to yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to have a calm debate, especially tonight. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u262	[[Same movements]] We're talking about stability. I'll only remind you of one figure: 50% of people who get divorced. This is a good condition of stability than getting married! [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I have been sitting on these benches for only a few months, unlike some Members of the LR Group who have been here for much longer. For the past few days, you have been tirelessly repeating that those who are married must divorce before a judge. But you forget – I'm glad to tell you, so you'll be sleeping less stupid than this morning – that since the law of November 18, 2016 of modernization of justice of the 21st century, divorce can be pronounced without a judge, before a notary. All couples, whether they are married or have signed a PACS – and of course if they live together – can separate without a judge. That's what we call an amicable separation. And couples who do not get along can also apply to a judge, whether they are cohabitants, married or pacsified. There is therefore strict equality of treatment between the different situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u263	I have seventeen amendments, Nos 8, 127, 219, 361, 265, 5, 124, 216, 358, 6, 125, 217, 359, 7, 126, 218 and 360, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 8, 127, 219 and 361 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 5, 124, 216 and 358, Amendments Nos 6, 125, 217 and 359 and Amendments Nos 7, 126, 218 and 360. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u264	Indeed, divorce by mutual consent can now be done before a judge or with the recourse of a lawyer. A third party is always present to defend the interests of the most fragile. We were against the judge's eviction because we believe that he must be there to speak the word of society in relation to the institution of marriage, and in relation to the breakdown of marriage. But there is still a procedure that cannot be found in the PACS or in the free union. Your argument on this point is therefore not valid. The amendments I am defending in this joint debate are aimed at expressly including in the Civil Code elements on which we will all be able to find ourselves, namely that "adoption is a protective institution for the child" (the subject of this amendment), that "the best interests of the child are the paramount consideration in matters of adoption" and that "the specific needs of the child are the subject of special attention on the part of the judge who pronounces adoption". These amendments are therefore of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u265	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u266	The amendments which Mrs Dubost referred to earlier were, I would like to point out, in retrospect. We believe that the adoption by the concubines, defended in the context of the text on the LDC, was in our view a measure of lesser evil, which should avoid blowing up the common law of filiation: it was never defended as a good measure in itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u267	It was adopted in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u268	It was important to recall this reality, because you have an unfortunate tendency to deny or distort it. I come to our amendments. When Parliament wants to reform adoption, it must be expressly stated in Article 343 of the Civil Code that "adoption is a protective institution for the child", that "the best interests of the child are the paramount consideration in matters of adoption" and, finally, that "the specific needs of the child are the subject of special attention on the part of the judge who pronounces adoption". We are defending these amendments because we consider that there is also a gradual shift which is increasingly passing, you cannot deny, the best interests of the child in the background. The discussion we have had about the different matrimonial regimes shows that marriage allows the intermediary of a legal professional, who secures things. It is therefore a matter of securing the best interests of the child: it is not because you do not want to hear this argument that it is not based on an objective reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u269	Amendments Nos 219 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 361 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u270	This is an appeal amendment to the rights of the child in the event of the separation of the unmarried adoptive couple. By further opening up the possibilities for adoption, the text before us tends to confuse the rights of the child with the right to the child. Instead of increasing the number of applicants for adoption, we should give as many children as possible the opportunity to be adopted by a couple as stable as possible. In the event of the separation of the unmarried couple, unfortunately, no provision has been made to guarantee the rights of the adopted child. I repeat, the aim of this text is to increase marital rights and to undifferentiate the right of adults to adopt without giving concrete consideration to the child adopted in the event of separation of the unmarried adoptive couple. Let us not forget that the number of applicants for adoption is far higher than the number of children to be adopted, so the priority is to ensure the greatest stability for the child and the preservation of his or her rights, even if the couple is separated, whether married or not. Thus, the aim of this amendment is to recall that the major principle that must prevail in any adoption process remains the best interests of the child. Under no circumstances should the expansion of adoption be seen as the need for a new marital right. On the contrary, it must respond to the present and future interests of the adopted child. It seems more necessary than ever to recall these great principles this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u271	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u272	The purpose of this amendment is to insert the subparagraph under which "adoption is a protective institution of the child". In other words, it is a question of stating that our priority must be the protection of the child, not a right to the child for adults. I should like to take this opportunity to be surprised by the figure quoted by the rapporteur, according to which six out of ten adopters are women alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u273	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u274	This surprises me especially in relation to all married couples who are waiting for adoption. Perhaps I misunderstood, unless you expressed yourself badly. In any case, this figure is quite surprising, and it is important that we have accurate data.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u275	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u276	In fact, Mr. Secretary of State, adoption by a single person has existed legally in French law since 1804, that is, since the Empire. It was maintained in 1923, and again in 1966, after very detailed debates. Today, the situation is somewhat different in that it is apparent that not all applicants for adoption from afar are able to achieve satisfaction. This is objective and should also be taken into account. The aim of this amendment is, again, to affirm that adoption must be "a protective institution for the child". We have already defended some of these amendments in committee, and I would like to know why you do not want to include such a simple thing in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u277	Because it's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u278	Some say it's pointless, but sometimes it's important, and it's important to us, because we think it's pointless for children. If you do not agree with us, argue and explain to us, in substance, why you are opposed to such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u279	Amendments Nos 216 by Mr Marc le Fur and 358 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u280	It is intended to state in article 2 that "the best interests of the child shall be the paramount consideration in matters of adoption". It is not enough to say it: it must also be written. That's what we're offering you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u281	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u282	The question is simple: what arguments can you make to say that you really take into account the best interests of the child? We simply ask that it be written in the text to be formally included in our positive law, and we would like to know why you object to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u283	Because it's already there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u284	By giving us these details, you will realize that you are seeking to diminish the best interests of the child. For us, however, this is a non-negotiable point, on which we will fight. As we have said on several occasions, you are in the process of crossing a red line again with this text. You don't protect children the way they should be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u285	Amendments Nos 217 by Mr Marc le Fur and 359 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u286	As you will understand, we want to fight the creation of a right to the child. We proposed that you indicate that adoption was a protective institution for the child, and then that the best interests of the child were the paramount consideration in matters of adoption, and you rejected these two proposals. Perhaps we will agree on this amendment, which is, in a way, a step backwards. It is intended to clarify that "the specific needs of the child are given special attention by the judge who pronounces the adoption".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u287	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u288	Xavier Breton recalled earlier that, in the debate on divorce reform, we were a number of people fighting to give the judge an important role because it provided guarantees. We then had back-up amendments to provide for recourse to the judge in the event of violence in the couple, because we must know how to protect the weakest. That is the argument that we repeat here, because it is the role of the law. Why don't you want the weakest to be protected? Is this, again, this fantasy of the power of the adult in relation to the child? In any case, we are very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u289	Identical Amendments Nos 218 by Mr Marc le Fur and 360 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u290	I will make a comprehensive response, making sure that I don't let myself go on a somewhat inappropriate point. In fact, it's the first time in my entire professional career before being elected that I'm told that I don't care about the interests of the child, and that makes me feel weird! I will stop there and now stick to the answer I had prepared. As far as the first claim is concerned, while adoption can be a tool for the protection of the child, it is not a protective institution for the child. Adoption is indeed the creation, by judgment, of an exclusively voluntary bond of filiation between two physiologically foreign persons. On the second point, I have already put forward my arguments in the examination of the previous amendments: both expressions are synonymous and let us keep ourselves from changing the codes only partially. As for the third claim, it seems to me already covered by the provisions of article 353 of the Civil Code, according to which adoption is ordered, at the request of the adopter, by the court, which checks whether the conditions of the law are fulfilled and whether the adoption is in the interests of the child. In cases where the adopter has descendants, the court shall also check whether the adoption is not liable to endanger his family life. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u292	Opinions also unfavourable on all these amendments. I'm a little surprised that you, who like to present yourself as rigorous jurists, who raise you against the legislative logorhee...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u293	And regulatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u294	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] ... and we regularly learn the lesson by denouncing the chatty law, you asked why one might object to the idea of including in the positive law that adoption is protective of the child. Perhaps, simply, because it is already included: it is article 353 of the Civil Code, which states that adoption can only be pronounced "if it is in the best interests of the child". That is why these amendments are super-faithful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u295	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u296	You know, Mr. Secretary of State, that pedagogy is the art of repetition. We deplore the legislative logorhee, but also, like the Council of State in its 1992 report, the regulatory logorhee, which we are seeing in particular at the moment. Do not forget this important point: we are under the Fifth Republic and we regularly contribute here to know that regulatory production is, in fact, much more abundant than legislative production. Let us return to the best interests of the child, the special needs of the child and the fact that adoption is an institution that protects the rights of the child. Why, when we have to reaffirm that it is the child who is here at the heart of our devices, do you evacuate what could help us to understand better and to be more certain that it is the interest of the child that you are putting forward? Indeed, what is happening tonight in this debate is a small revolution: for a century, as Patrick Hetzel pointed out earlier, this institution has been at the service of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u297	It won't change!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u298	[[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LaREM group]] The child is at the heart of the device: parents are given to him. Now you, who are very modern, return to the design of Tronchet or Portalis, whose statues are very close to here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u299	And come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u300	[[Xavier Breton applauds]] We have returned to the Empire and to the Napoleonic Code, at a time when it was absolutely necessary to find children for adults who had no heirs – we are here a little bit, in a modernized version, Mr Mahjoubi: this is where you lead us! Try to reaffirm the child's interest, since that's what you're defending – I'm not going to make a bad trial in this regard, because I think that deep down you are, and I'm not denying it or underestimating it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u301	Yes, we defend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u302	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on several benches of the LR group]] Would it take away the vote so much that you go in the direction of appeasement by rewriting things that may already appear in the civil code, but which will be better by repeating them? This not only reassures our fellow citizens, but also really ensures a status for these children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u303	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u304	I do not know whether to repeat the story, but to hear you, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I feel like I have the same assumptions as those we have unfortunately heard too often in 2013, the same arguments for the same things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u305	The same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u306	You work contrary to the interests of the child. Having been responsible for child protection for a very long time – which I am very proud of – I can say that the interests of the child are always at the heart of the subject. When it comes to adoption, it is always about making the best project – it is a duty for both the administrative authorities and the judiciary. A family, psychological and societal balance must be found for a child: sometimes it is adopted, and sometimes it is not adopted. However, whatever the situation, I have always considered adoption to be a sonage given to a child. However, filiation is not only an administrative act or a legal act with rights and obligations: it is also a question of placing these children in family and psychological lines, in a family history.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u307	Yes! We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u308	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] The most important thing for the child is to have a double parentage when it is possible. When couples are not married, a child must be able to be included in his or her dual parentage, as in the case of married couples. This is what this is about: a child adopted by a single person will have only one parentage, while a child adopted by an unmarried couple will have a double parentage. It is this inequality towards a father and a mother who have an adoption project for a child without being married that we are seeing again. If you really think about the interests of the child, do not defeat what has been built.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u309	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor in support of Amendment No 268.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u310	The reference to "two spouses" in paragraph 3 is not relevant, as has just been noted, to the evolution of the company. A married couple may consist of a man and a woman, two men or two women. We therefore propose, with this amendment, to replace the words "two non-separate spouses" with the words "an unseparate married couple". The law must be clear and its proper application is due to the correctness of the words used. The word "spouse" does not characterize two married women: we must change our legal semantics to include all the couples involved in this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u312	Opinion against this amendment, since the term "spouse" in plural may refer to both a man and woman and two men or two women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u313	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u314	Yes. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the amendments you tabled after it to draw the consequences of this first terminological change make it so difficult for the provisions concerned to be drafted that they may undermine the principle of the intelligibility of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u316	The honourable Member understands your concern to clarify the texts when necessary and to improve their readability. That is the whole meaning of your amendment and of the wording that you propose, more in line with the evolution of society. After listening to the rapporteur's arguments, the Government relies on the wisdom of your assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u317	Another commitment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u318	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u319	Madam rapporteur, in view of the developments concerning marriage and the hypothesis of a couple of two married women, perhaps we could understand the wording proposed by the amendment. Is your position in this matter firm, or can it be wisdom?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u320	And how many codes will change the vocabulary?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u321	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u322	We are not tinkering: these are articles of the civil code! The French language has no neutral, and it is the masculine who serves it. So far, we have been accommodating ourselves, but we are now entering into an inclusive writing logic and we are no longer able to get through it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u323	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u324	If you need to groom all the terms that are problematic to you, we're not done! So let's be careful. As always, the Government is hostage to this militant and radical minority...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u325	A minority of women?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u326	...which is within your majority and aims to upset everything by denying gender difference, sexual otherness. Assume it! We must have the courage to say that the law is written with words that have a precise meaning. It's always worked like this. You want to upset things for ideological reasons: like the rapporteur, have the courage – the Government should also have it – to resist the militant minority that is agitating your majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u327	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u328	The committee's opinion is unfavourable, but, in view of the arguments I have just heard, I would like to express an opinion of wisdom. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group. – Mrs Élo die Jacquier-Laforge also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u329	Further discussion was postponed to the second sitting on Friday, 4 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-02-O1102.u330	Next meeting at 9 a.m.: Discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the strategy for the systematic screening of covid-19; Discussion of the constitutional proposal to ensure the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic; Discussion, pursuant to Article 34-1 of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the Armenian people and the Christian communities of Europe and the East; Discussion of the proposal for a law to allow the exclusion of foreigners in an irregular situation from the benefit of social pricing in transport; Discussion of the bill to introduce a biometric Vitale Card; Discussion of the proposed law to explain the development of wind energy. The meeting is adjourned.
