ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr Damien Abad on the systematic screening strategy for covid-19 (No 3539).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u2	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u3	Allow me, at this moment, to have an emotional and respectful thought for President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, for his family, his wife, especially for his sons whom I know and whom I think. His international stature, his height of vision and judgment, his European vision, his role in the Franco-German couple will be lacking in France and Europe. They will be lacking in all areas, including the health and protection of Europeans. So it's been a year since the whole planet fought, fought and fought the covid-19. The record is terrible for the country that is suffering a double penalty – a double crisis: economic and health. An economic crisis, of course, with more than 300 billion euros burned, stolen, evaporated, with debt, deficits and unemployment exploding. While civil servants and employees are relatively spared – "relatively" due to partial unemployment – entrepreneurs, traders, restaurateurs, the self-employed in general are on land, indebted and often bonded on their own property. We die of disease, we die of economic despair. Health crisis, of course: with now more than 53,000 deaths, France is four times more affected than Germany. As for China or Taiwan, Asia in general, there is no second wave or confinement without miracle treatment, ladies and gentlemen, but by testing massively and isolating patients and carriers of the virus. The World Health Organization, WHO, said early on that massive screening was the most effective solution to stem the epidemic. On March 16, his general manager launched the famous "test, test, test". On 17 March, at noon, France entered confinement by carrying out only 13,000 tests, i.e. twenty times less than Germany which, on the same date, had carried out 250,000 tests...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u5	...through a clear doctrine of massive screening implemented even before the start of the epidemic crisis on its soil, and thanks to a strong public voluntarism. However, the Institut Pasteur had developed a test as early as 24 January, but private laboratories were not allowed to test until 8 March and the departmental laboratories on 5 April. The regional health agencies, the RHAs, at the time – in March – slowed down the use of these tests and refused to test everyone, especially in the EHPADs. This delay was detrimental, as Professor Flahault pointed out. Let's not do this again. What was true for the first confinement is always true for the second – the same causes generally producing the same effects. So yes, we must succeed today what was missed yesterday. Yes, as the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, said yesterday in turn,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u6	They're not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u7	... massive screening campaigns must be considered. Three test campaigns in metropolitan France were mentioned. Scientists demand them, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region is itself voluntary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u8	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u9	For this confinement to be useful, for this confinement – let us dare to say it – or the last, to stop the policy of the accordion: a blow I open, a blow I close, a blow I confine, a blow I untie, I brake and then I accelerate – people do not always find themselves there and communication is therefore all the more difficult, and I do not speak of "pedagogy"... – we therefore propose this motion for a resolution. Test in the metropolises, test in the departments, test in the regions, not necessarily throughout France, at the same time, at once and immediately, but test.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u10	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u11	Test in two steps: test the first time before the holidays, to secure them, so that "papi and granny" do not eat the log alone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u12	In the kitchen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u13	Yes, in the kitchen, as Mr Salomon advocates: testing before the holidays would be better, it would be human, I dare say. Test a second time at the beginning of January to avoid, reduce, slow down, delay, crush, I dare not say to delete a third wave. Slovakia has done so out of 3.5 million people in 48 hours, identifying nearly 40,000 positive, symptomatic or non-symptomatic cases. Austria will do so, Spain in Madrid, England in Liverpool and I will not recall the Chinese examples in Wuhan or Qingdao out of 14 million and 11 million people respectively. We must test to isolate positive cases, again symptomatic or asymptomatic, and not the entire population: we must break the epidemic and not break the economy. By far I prefer to isolate 1% of people for seven days rather than 100% of people for two months. It is necessary to use all forces, including firefighters and the army, to use all samples, salivary as oropharyngeals – as in China where this has been practiced for a long time – to use all tests, including antigenic tests, even if they are less sensitive than polymerase chain reaction tests, known as PCRs. The fact of testing twice as we propose, before Christmas and early January, increases the sensitivity and will make it possible to catch up with possible false negatives that could become positive in the meantime. Anyway, even if we were to miss 30% of cases, or even 50%, you'll still miss 100% if you don't test. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as scientists ask in the North, as elected representatives want in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, as metropolises or countries have already done in all parts of the world, is why we invite you to vote on this motion for a resolution gradually encouraging massive, voluntary and free testing, in order to avoid or mitigate a third wave. Yes, because it is now, in December and January, that spring is being played.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u14	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u15	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u16	I will start with a few words of tribute to Valéry Giscard d'Estaing – a personality that is so dear to the centrist family in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u17	You don't know where you are: one left, one right...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u18	He has been able to enshrine France in his European destiny, the Republic in his conquests for equal rights – I am thinking of the voluntary termination of pregnancy, the abortion, and the majority at the age of 18. Europe loses one of its great figures and the centrist family the best of its generation. The motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u19	...is excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u20	... aims to promote a massive policy of systematic testing against covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u21	It's about time we talked about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u22	Since the beginning of the pandemic, screening has been part of the health strategy to isolate and trace, waiting for a vaccine that we hope is imminent and through which we can immunize as many people as possible. The present text calls on the Government to carry out a systematic screening campaign for the entire French population based on what has been done in some European countries such as Slovakia. It seems to us that such campaigns must be integrated into a successful programme, in particular from a scientific and logistical point of view. In fact, for Slovakia alone, which has about 5458000 inhabitants, it took more than 45,000 people to carry out the tests and ensure the effectiveness of this process affecting 3.6 million inhabitants. I would also like to let you imagine the number of personnel that would have to be mobilised to cover the entire French territory and its 67 million inhabitants. Furthermore, is it shown that these screening campaigns, which have been praised in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution, have led to a drastic reduction in the incidence of the virus? Do we know the results of the policy undertaken by these countries? We know that if PCR tests are effective, there is always a proportion of false negatives – between 20% and 67% depending on the patient's clinical condition – which is even more important with antigenic tests, fast but of very varying reliability: between one in two or three patients is falsely negative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u23	It's always better than nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u24	Therefore, a very large-scale screening would lead to a significant proportion of errors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u25	It's better than leaving asymptomatics in nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u26	...which would go backwards to the public health objective. At this time, no single covid-19 test is able to achieve a 90% sensitivity with a statistically significant 95% confidence interval, which can claim to be a massive screening tool. In addition to this weakness of sensitivity, we know the biases of these tests, which cannot give any predictive diagnosis: a negative person can become positive immediately after the test. In addition, the authors of the text propose to take advantage of the containment to carry out this strategy. As you can see, the context has evolved as the latest Government announcements gradually ease the restrictions. However, the motion for a resolution has the merit of presenting to the debate the choice we have to make with regard to screening and prevention policy. Thus, two strategies are available to us. The first is addressed in an undifferentiated manner to the population as a whole by using effective measuring tools, and the second targets only certain situations at risk of contamination and population density. However, the urgency and the already ubiquitous logistical challenges, as well as the need to find colossal human resources, do not allow France to carry out these two strategies simultaneously. The scientific council has recently noted the logistical difficulty of the approach proposed by the LR group, while explaining its still uncertain impact on the circulation of the virus. As such, according to the recommendations of the council, the Prime Minister announced yesterday that several experiments involving mass screening in dense urban areas would be carried out before the end of the year. Three metropolises were selected. It seems to us that this local initiative targeted at different priority groups of populations at risk of contamination or constitutional fragility – college students, high school students, residents of EHPAD, caregivers... – is the prerequisite for assessing the effectiveness of this approach, and for an excess of tests to make the meaning of the purpose of screening lose. That is why we look forward with great interest to the Government's clarification of the modalities for implementing the experiments announced in certain populations and territories. A major prerequisite, to which the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats is very attached, however, seems to us to have to be reminded here with force and vigour: it is the freedom that must be left to everyone whether or not to participate in a larger screening campaign. It is also surprising that the right has lost its compass of individual freedoms...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u27	We haven't lost anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u28	It's on the basis of volunteerism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u29	... and proposes to force, to make systematic such a system for the whole population. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. - Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] For all the reasons set out above, the Democratic Movement, concerned about individual freedoms and the effectiveness of public policies, will not vote for this motion for a resolution, which seems to it to be too imprecise and even random, inadequate to the current context and ineffective in relation to its objective of positive screening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u30	It would be voluntary and progressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u31	That's not what's written in your proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u32	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u33	We are now called upon to discuss a motion for a resolution on the covid-19 screening strategy, tabled by the Republicans, who propose to take advantage of the containment to test the population in mass and systematically, thus bringing a solution, perhaps a little late, to the problem encountered by the screening strategy put in place by the Government in recent months. It was found that the Government's management of the health crisis has not always been optimal: too long delays in waiting for the results of screening tests, delays in the distribution of masks, sometimes lacking, have significantly affected the effectiveness of measures to deal with the epidemic. It is this disorganization that must at all costs be avoided to reproduce in the weeks and months to come. As we approach the end of the second confinement and the end-of-year celebrations, testing to protect must obviously remain a priority. The President of the Republic has committed himself to this, but it is now a matter of fulfilling this promise. The wait times for test results must be reduced to 24 hours in order to ensure the effectiveness of this strategy, and the use of antigenic tests must be democratised. It is therefore time to improve the testing policy but above all to organize a new stage to deal with the crisis: to vaccinate to protect. Immunization is a hope in the fight against the spread of the virus, a potential outcome to the health crisis that we are going through, but also a way to avoid a third epidemic wave and any new measures or restrictions on the deprivation of liberty that would be taken to respond to it. As we know, this would threaten the social and economic health of our country. On 9 July, the Scientific Council, in its opinion, invited the Government to submit a rapid vaccination strategy. While laboratories are publishing promising results and vaccines with more than 90 per cent reliability rates could soon reach European markets, the Government is slow to give its prospects for a vaccination campaign. Who will be vaccinated first? Who will vaccinate? Who will be the priority professionals? What's the schedule? What vaccination strategy will be adopted? These are questions which our European neighbours have answered but which remain outstanding at home. Germany announces the establishment of vaccination centres in the Federated States, specifying the priority audiences. The United Kingdom announces that military personnel will be dispatched to provide immunization for 30 million British. Spain is wondering about a targeted vaccination of young people, a public considered to be very contagious. In France, blurry is still the rule. It is time for the Government to plan and present a strategy adapted to the situation in order to meet the needs of the French but also and especially of each territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u34	We're waiting for Ségolène!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u35	I am convinced that the effectiveness of a vaccination campaign will be conditioned by an end-to-end mesh distribution of the vaccine. The territories, through regions, departments, cities and inter-communities, must be mobilized to ensure effective vaccination that meets the real needs of local actors. Everything must be put in place to avoid too centralised management which, as we have seen in recent months, is definitely not the ideal way of managing this crisis. We therefore expect the Government to finally present its detailed objectives in terms of vaccination. We are convinced that this will be the long-term response to the triple health, social and economic crisis facing France and the French. This vaccination strategy can only be effective if it is accompanied by appropriate management of the crisis in the short term, in particular through a faster and more extensive screening policy. That is why we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution by urging the Government to present its vaccination strategy as soon as possible, a repeated request from the Socialist Group for several weeks now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u36	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u37	On 30 October, France entered a second phase of containment, reminding everyone of the omnipresence and dangerousness of the covid-19. While this new step was initially necessary to stem the epidemic, the strategy of stop and go, which consists of alternating containment and deconfination phases, is not sustainable in the long term. At a time when our citizens have already given a great deal of money and the psychological and psychiatric problems associated with the various confinements are getting worse and worse, at a time when an unprecedented social and economic crisis is coming down on France, plunging hundreds of thousands of French people into precariousness, at a time when only the courage and exemplaryness of our health-care workers have kept a health-care system out of breath, a new recovery of the epidemic leading to a third confinement would be most dramatic for our country. We must therefore avoid it at all costs by taking strong decisions that engage us collectively. It is in this context that we are considering today this motion for a resolution on the systematic screening strategy for covid-19 proposed by the Republican Group. Although the explanatory statement seems to us to be unnecessarily burdened, this motion for a resolution stresses the absolute need to test our people massively and invites the Government to draw on foreign policies in this regard. As has been seen in Germany and Slovakia in particular, mass screening of the population has made it possible to effectively identify and isolate infectious individuals as much as possible. The French Prime Minister announced yesterday the launch of massive screening campaigns in three metropolises of Hexagone, Lille, Le Havre and Saint-Étienne. This initiative is in the right direction because, as we know, the identification of sick people is an essential step in breaking the chains of contamination. This is an essential step, of course, but not enough to provide an effective and lasting response to the epidemic that has plagued us for more than nine months. At a time when we are once again beginning a gradual deconfinination, we must go further on isolation, taking strict measures imposed by the seriousness of the situation. It is in this context that the Parliamentary Group Action Together recently tabled a bill based on the triptych "test, isolate and treat", and inspired by foreign health policies that have enabled some countries to significantly limit the adverse consequences of the covid -19 epidemic. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we have been living with a dangerous and unpredictable virus for several months now, we must collectively show humility by looking at what is being done elsewhere. Some Asian countries, such as Taiwan or South Korea, that have triptyched "test, isolate and treat" their health strategies, must serve as an example. Since the beginning of the epidemic, Taiwan has recorded only seven covid-19-related deaths, and South Korea about 500, while its population is equivalent to that of France. Our group therefore proposes the establishment of a massive screening campaign, which can be based in particular on the speed of the salivary tests recently approved by the High Health Authority, the HAS, but we propose above all to make the isolation of people infected with the virus compulsory, while accompanying them throughout their isolation. In this context, we suggest, among other things, mobilizing the civic reserve and assigning a health reference to each quarantined person. In these difficult times, we must mobilize more than ever and show solidarity with those affected by the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u39	This strategy is in line with that advocated by the Scientific Council, which has called since the second confinement for an active screening strategy combined with quarantine and assistance for the more developed isolation of positive testers. Of course, these provisions are not easy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u40	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u41	...but what's easy? They call for discipline, good logistics and meticulous follow-up of sick people and contact cases so that we can deal with them with humanity, but they remain the best way to break the chains of contagion and thus respond effectively and sustainably to the health crisis that is shaking our country. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] The motion for a resolution by the Republicans is therefore in the right direction, although it should be complemented by a strategy of further isolation. Because the deployment of a massive screening campaign is an essential first step in the fight against the covid -19 epidemic, because such a strategy is the only way to avoid a third containment whose consequences would be dramatic for French society as a whole, because finally health must be a subject that transcends partisan borders and our union around this motion for a resolution can be one of the bricks in building a lasting solution against covid-19, the Group of the European People's Party will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u43	It's getting better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u44	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u45	Our country has been facing an unprecedented health crisis for a year now, and it is only now that we are led to debate on a screening strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u46	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u47	This comes from an opposition group; It was a pity that the Government had not taken the initiative earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u48	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u49	This is certainly commendable but completely out of date because the urgency is not only to establish a strategy for the supply, storage and administration of future covid -19 vaccines, but also to give our hospitals the human, material and financial means to accommodate more patients. We should therefore ask ourselves about our capacity to produce freezers at very low temperatures to store the products. National representation is entitled to take note of the choices made by the Ministry. Why has the only French supplier of this type of equipment so far not received any orders from the State? We should also discuss our logistical capacity to store millions of doses or even medical equipment. We would also be entitled to discuss the recommendations of the HAS on priority audiences. How do you want the French to have confidence in your policy of deploying tests when you are not able to explain your strategy of production, logistics, storage and administration of vaccines?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u51	The resolution calls on the Government to draw on testing strategies deployed abroad. Unfortunately, comparison is not right. Many countries have adopted different strategies in crisis management; A common conclusion would therefore be risky when the introduction and development were different.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u53	Moreover, it is the Government's inability to anticipate an active circulation of the virus that has led, despite it, to the containment and reconstitution of our fellow citizens. In other words, confinement is much more an admission of failure than an assumed strategy. In his defence, these multiple confinements are due, it must be recognized, to the situation of the medical world, whether in hospital, in city medicine or in EHPAD, which unfortunately does not date from today but must question us about the need to give it much more resources. It does not seem to us to be a strategy that can protect us from any containment to rely on a massive and systematic deployment of tests. Imposing a massive test campaign on everyone would only be a test of a given population at an instant t, without much interest because the next day the situation will be different. Our group stands for a more pragmatic vision, close to the territories, of allowing communities the freedom to deploy a testing strategy adapted to the territory and the circulation of the virus. These massive screening campaigns are already taking place. In June, for example, 1.3 million inhabitants of Île-de-France received a voucher inviting them to go to the laboratory for a virological test. This campaign was conducted to identify possible outbreaks of contaminated but asymptomatic people. Of the thirty municipalities targeted, four are located in the Essonne department. Moreover, the president of the departmental council of this department, who is a member of the group Les Républicains, himself told the newspaper LeParisien that this targeted screening campaign had meaning, these communes having a high population density and their inhabitants not always being detected spontaneously. In conclusion, the IDU and independent group calls for trust in the territories, which will be able to provide a suitable response close to our fellow citizens. In order to be comprehensive, the motion for a resolution should have clarified the targeting of the screening strategy and included it in the framework of the overall policy to combat the virus – the isolation of infected people, barrier actions, individual responsibility. However, it has the merit of leading us to debate the Government's choices and to allow each of the Assembly's groups to present their positions at a time when good intentions and great principles are no longer sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u54	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u55	It is through these words that we can describe the Government's screening strategy since the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic. The evolution of the doctrine in this field has been dictated more by the means available than by the state of knowledge. We all remember the supply difficulties of the first few months, the shortages of reagents and swabs for screening tests, or even machines for treating samples in laboratories. It was not until the summer that everyone could be tested, with or without symptoms. Unfortunately, the opening of tests to the general population did not mark the end of the confusion. It has certainly reassured, but it has caused delays: some of our fellow citizens have sometimes had to wait more than five days to achieve their results. These delays have complicated the management of the epidemic rather than improving it. The authorisation of antigenic tests has also been delayed, but the latter, as we know, are not fully reliable and are insufficient for effective screening. It has also taken time for public research laboratories, gendarmerie and veterinary laboratories to be allowed to carry out screenings. In fact, they have been insufficiently solicited. Finally, we regret the lack of systematic feedback and sometimes inadequate support for people. Many treating physicians tell us their incomprehension. The results of the positive tests are not communicated to them when they have themselves prescribed them to their patients. In the absence of coordination and organization, the method used cannot produce satisfactory results. The ARS and the National Health Insurance Fund have sometimes been overwhelmed. They have not always been able to properly conduct epidemiological investigations, or follow up on positive people and contact cases. I am thinking of the request for a seroprevalence investigation that we made in Corsica: it could not be implemented because of the red tape. The President of the Republic himself has acknowledged the failure, to date, of the strategy "test, trace, isolate". These findings point to ways of improving our screening strategy. Foreign policies must also inspire us. Nevertheless, we must guard against the simplistic reasoning that what works elsewhere should be duplicated in our territories. That is precisely the criticism that can be made of the motion for a resolution. More or less explicitly, it promotes the generalization of systematic screening. A priori, this strategy seems attractive, but we must assess precisely its feasibility and its relevance. First, we cannot rule out asymptomatic people. For the latter, the virus is not detectable for the first two or three days of the disease. The use of antigenic tests is also poorly indicated. In addition, such a strategy appears difficult to implement across the country, due to the size of the population, especially since the generalization of systematic screening implies the repetition of the test within a few weeks. Therefore, if the Government chooses to do so, it would first be necessary to improve our material and logistical capacity, which would require the anticipation that has so far been lacking. Yesterday, the Prime Minister finally showed his support for a massive experiment in three territories. Lille's metropolis had already been a candidate. It now remains to be seen what criteria will be used to select the other two territories and on what basis the Government would decide to initiate a possible national deployment. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have advocated better integration of territorial specificities into the national strategy. The response to the crisis cannot be uniform everywhere. Finally, it is imperative to recall that the question of screening is inseparable from that of isolation. On several occasions, the Libertés et territoires group has invited the Government to opt for educational support and human follow-up as close as possible to the people. Without this support and follow-up, any screening strategy will be futile. Colleagues, it goes without saying that all strategies must be interviewed so that situations of containment and debunking do not untiringly repeat themselves. Our people suffer on every level. However, the wording chosen for this motion for a resolution is vague and ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u56	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Brahim Hammouche and Mrs Martine Wonner also applaud. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] She called on the Government to draw inspiration from what was being done abroad, while stressing the need to draw particular inspiration from cases of systematic screening. If our group calls for improved screening strategies and more broadly the strategy of isolation of positive cases, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u58	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u59	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u60	At last, reasonable people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u61	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u62	The crisis of the coronavirus has begun in France for many months and we are still in a period of containment. France deplores more than 52000 deaths of the covid-19. The public hospital has worked under conditions of extreme stress and the healthcare staff are exhausted by this second wave. The containment measures plunged the country into a brutal economic crisis, which turned into a social crisis. The queues lie in front of the food banks and this will continue. Social plans are multiplying; they are maintained despite public aid, while dividends are paid to shareholders. Often, the health crisis has a good back... Without limiting contamination, the Government has restricted our freedoms. Freedom to move? Suspended. Freedom to meet? Suspended. Freedom to have a private and family life? Suspended. The health crisis must be brought to an end as soon as possible so that our lives can resume their ordinary course and that society can rebuild itself and undertake the necessary ecological and solidarity transition. To this end, it is essential to put in place a national covid-19 screening strategy, with planning as a key principle. We therefore welcome the initiative of the Republican Group, although we do not share all the conclusions of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u63	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u65	WHO has been repeating this since the beginning: testing, testing, testing! However, the test strategy put in place in France was particularly aggressive last spring. Due to organizational difficulties and delays, testing capabilities were quickly overwhelmed. The report of the Assembly's Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the management of the health crisis details various serious shortcomings. With the summer and the collapse of the epidemic, one might have thought that the lessons of the first wave had been learned, but not! If we wanted to test everyone, we didn't test anyone. The snoring announcement of the million tests per week has resulted in the saturation of the system. The results fell on average seven days after sampling: they were useless to break the contamination chains. The Government's refusal to plan has led it to react to the health situation through ever greater restrictions on freedom. A second confinement of the country has been decided, in complete opacity, by the defence counsel, but it itself has many shortcomings, which undermine its effectiveness. Most places of contamination – work, schools, transport – remain open, without serious sanitary protocol. The arbitrary closure of all small businesses, for which a gauge could have been planned, will cause their collapse. Now that the epidemic is falling again, we must not fall back into the same mistakes. We're all too bereaved. France will hardly recover from the economic crisis, especially with an indigent recovery plan. The group La France insoumée presented proposals for alternatives to containment. For ordinary life, it is necessary to organize rotations in schools, in transport and in enterprises: this is possible by collective control of time. We have relied on the example of foreign countries, as well as the expertise of professionals from various sectors – national education, higher education, health, culture, public transport. Yes, foreign examples must inspire us, but not authoritarian and liberticide examples, which result in ever more control of the population. Take the example of the Indian state of Kerala, exemplary in its response to the pandemic: it has far fewer contaminations and deaths. Much of its strategy is based on social solidarity. At the same time as strict quarantines and tracing of contact cases, Kerala has introduced free deliveries of meals, built accommodation and proposed a moratorium on consumer credit. Social response is essential in the fight against the pandemic because it is impossible for individuals to confide when they need to work, just as it is impossible for them to isolate themselves when their housing is overcrowded or unsanitary. The vaccine, of course, is a source of hope, but its effectiveness and safety must be guaranteed. In any case, the vaccine will not be the miracle remedy. Again, planning is needed. The study of wastewater helps to anticipate the epidemic recovery. This method has been used in Marseille since the summer. Why didn't you generalize such surveillance? Similarly, a massive screening campaign is under way in Saint-Étienne, Lille and Le Havre. Other countries, such as Slovakia, have already applied it at the population level. It is also the technique used by China to address the last pockets of the epidemic. Why does France use it only now? Are there plans to isolate positive testers? In the case of testing without planning the health response, the Government is still wasting its time. A comprehensive response to the pandemic is needed: a health, economic, social and democratic response. The opposite of what the Government is doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u66	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u67	Thank you, colleagues in the Republicans Group, for opening your day of parliamentary niche with a debate on the health strategy. We would have needed much more debate on this subject in the period that has just passed. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the detection of the covid-19 virus has been a major issue in the battle that has begun. Indeed, how can we combat an evil that is not identified and how can we tackle its transmission without identifying our homes? Despite WHO recommendations as early as 16 March, our country has struggled to deploy a massive and effective strategy in this area. Have all available means been mobilised to organize screening? Have we quickly and properly organised channels, as well as the supply and production of reagents? However, this was a decisive issue in stopping the spread of the virus and deconfining the country. Because confinement, if it was understandable the first time given the unknown and viral nature of the pandemic, proved to be an extreme, archaic and painful response. It seems that a spirit of follow-up has been singularly lacking. The lack of a sustainable screening strategy to effectively support deconfination can be questioned. We have long lacked testing and organization. For a long time, the wait times to obtain the results were several days, which affected the very effectiveness of the tests. The establishments have placed one by one their orders for equipment and services; It is therefore partly through the market that screening has been organised. The choice was made to test only symptomatic people, whereas in the epidemic recovery phases it would have been useful to implement a more offensive test strategy at the general population level, by segments and by sectors, by encouraging people to be screened for more effective action on the spread of the virus. Clearly, the direction chosen by the Government has not prevented the emergence of a second wave. The motion for a resolution encourages us to look elsewhere, which is indeed useful to fuel reflection, but insufficient: in reality, we have a software problem. Indeed, in order to develop the test strategy, it would have been necessary to mobilise society rather than place it in a situation in which it suffers both the epidemic and the decisions imposed on it. Companies, the mutual movement, associations and local and regional authorities could have been mobilized to deploy a capillary screening strategy as part of an offensive and broader prevention campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u68	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u69	The specific approach taken in EHPADs, which are particularly sensitive places, should be welcomed. But at this moment, despite repeated slogans, public action on testing remains weak and unclear. We are given an opportunity to question the Government on how it intends to adapt to the challenges of today, tomorrow and the day after. As the parties approach, to accompany the deconfination and allow its efficiency and acceleration, can we not make better use of antigenic tests? Should we not offer non-symptomatic people to test themselves on a regular basis if they want to?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u71	Shouldn't we set ourselves goals of massification, by deciding particular moments to conduct test campaigns? In recent days, the Government has clearly targeted only three territories where the tests will be massed. We proposed a long time ago that surveys should be conducted regularly to find out which places of traffic are most active. Are we still at this stage? At the very least, should we not extend the massification beyond the targeted territories, in order to be able to alert? There is a need for real animation in the field of screening, in liaison with the actors and by devoting the necessary resources to it. Too much used as an additional means of control, tests can be a powerful tool for social mobilization against the virus. The term "systematic", used in this motion for a resolution, has a connotation of obligation – and refers to a proposal by the Republican Group; it seems to us a little inappropriate to describe a strategy thought and thought over the medium term. But one thing is certain: we must learn from the experiences we have done abroad, even if it is not certain that it is enough to look elsewhere, and give us the means to use the test tool in the best of ways, in order to get out safely and as quickly as possible of the constraints we know today, which are increasingly difficult to bear. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We cannot, we can no longer be a country that febrilesly awaits and suffers the vesperal sentences of the President of the Republic. All of this has lasted too long: what we need is not authoritarian paternalism, but effective ways to get through it together, drawing on our individual and collective intelligences. The deployment of a generalized testing strategy can help this; We will therefore not oppose this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u73	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u74	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u75	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Testing, alerting, protecting, treating: this is the strategy we have adopted to combat this epidemic. As we soon complete the second confinement, the figures indicate that the Government's strategy is the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u76	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u77	What can't you hear?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u78	What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u79	This motion for a resolution, submitted by the Republican Group, invites the Government to draw on health policies in other countries, including mass screening. In his explanatory statement, it is stated that these policies would have proved their effectiveness, particularly in our European neighbours, and you also suggest that a massive screening strategy would have avoided a reconstitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u80	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u81	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u82	You have, I fear, an idealized vision of massive screening, which you seem to consider as a miracle solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u83	And you have no vision at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u84	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It does not correspond to that, more objective, of the scientific council chaired by Professor Delfraissy, whose recommendations we have been following since the beginning of the health crisis. In particular, you mention Slovakia, and the city of Liverpool, which, particularly affected by the epidemic, chose to launch a massive screening campaign. Nevertheless, the Scientific Council indicated that it did not have the necessary step back to evaluate these experiments, the second of which has already been the subject of a very critical publication: the authors point out in particular that this pilot project has not demonstrated its ability to reduce viral transmission in the area concerned. It is also necessary to explain to the French that in order to achieve its objectives, mass screening implies that more than 90% of the population is tested,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u85	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u86	... and that positive people are also subjected to strict isolation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u88	They must also be told that to be truly effective, these massive tests must be repeated on a regular basis, at least once a month. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, we cannot say that we have serious examples that are comparable to our national situation and that would justify such a policy across the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u89	Listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u90	It is clear, however, that it is useful to draw on international experience and not to close any perspective in order to combat the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u91	Look what's happening somewhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u92	[["What a joke! » and exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] That is what we have been doing since the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u93	What a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u94	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u95	For this reason, the Scientific Council has advocated the implementation of experiments in our territory, and the Prime Minister has just announced several of them at the scale of urban, dense and well-targeted areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u96	Like Liverpool!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u97	Let me stress that we have not waited to move forward on this subject: we are working with all the actors involved in the fight against the epidemic. You also refer to Germany...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u98	That's what you do all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u99	...to illustrate systematic screening. I have to restore a truth here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u100	Lessons givers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u101	While, like France, Germany is now one of the most tested countries in Europe, it does not pursue a systematic and massive screening policy. It conducts targeted screenings for symptomatic persons, contact cases and persons returning from a region classified as at risk or in certain occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u102	What you're not doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u103	Asymptomatic testing is generally not recommended. France has chosen to test the population widely by making the PCR test free and accessible without a prescription, while giving priority to people with symptoms, contact cases and healthcare staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u104	Without providing a solution for positive cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u105	This is a good strategy, given what we have observed before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u106	You're wearing carols!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u107	Similarly, France has considerably strengthened its screening capabilities with the introduction of antigenic tests and recommended new salivary tests for symptomatic patients. It has therefore put the screening strategy at the heart of the policy to combat covid-19...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u108	And the strategy of isolation too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u109	... and here I welcome the work of all the people mobilized on the ground to ensure that it is applied in the best possible conditions. In conclusion, although we disagree with the Republican Group on the postulates and criticisms conveyed by the explanatory memorandum to their motion for a resolution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u110	You'll agree with us in three months, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u111	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on many banks of the LR Group]] ... we note that the Government has been guided, since the beginning of the epidemic, by health policies in other countries, particularly with regard to mass screening. That is what this motion for a resolution calls for. Considering that it is satisfied, the La République en marche group will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u112	You are above all self-satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u113	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u114	For the second time in a year, France is in a situation of confinement. To preserve lives and reverse epidemic expansion, because the Government had not anticipated anything, the French were again forced to restrict their freedoms. In the face of this second wave, all have made the choice of a great sense of responsibility. Reducing social interactions, integrating barrier gestures but also not moving freely, no longer consuming freely, no longer working freely, no longer embracing one's own, no longer going out, no longer cultivating oneself, no longer dancing, no longer playing sports, and now no longer going to skiing: you've made us a world of forbidden people – even laughing or having an accent is now suspicious in Macronia. The chaotic policy chosen, consisting of successive confinements and deconfinations, has only had disastrous economic and social consequences. For containment to be effective, it should have been used to test the population massively. It is a very large-scale screening that has made it possible to slow down the progression of the pandemic in many countries; The text of the proposal also presents as examples, among our neighbours, Germany and Slovakia. Massively depicting the population in the national territory to actively identify the French who spread the virus: this is the resolution that would guarantee the freedoms of all. However, the lack of systematic testing has long been the norm in France. Let us not forget that in March the tests were not available, or that they were only available on prescription; They were only open to all in July. After the lie of the masks came the fiasco of the tests. Such inefficiency has delayed us on all fronts to fight the pandemic. At the beginning of April, before Minister Buzyn fled, the number of tests carried out in France was seven times lower than that of Germany; Today, our country carries out three times as many tests as Denmark, contrary to what we do daily by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Finally, it took months for antigenic tests, available early in many countries, to be allowed and made available to all. Beyond the quantitative aspect, France suffers from a lack of logistics and the type of tests available. Affluence at the entrance of screening centres, lack of practitioners, too late results: these are the ills of the failing strategy of the State. It is difficult not to accept this motion for a resolution, which depicts its extreme opposite in some countries that have chosen to launch massive screening campaigns, using antigenic tests and with the support of all the forces of the country. Thus, it has been said, in Liverpool, since 6 November, about ten centres have opened with the help of 2,000 military personnel in order to test the 500,000 inhabitants of the city. In Slovakia, at the weekend of 31 October, more than 3.5 million people were tested, revealing over 38,000 new cases in two days. At the end of October, suspicion of a rebound in the epidemic in the city of Kashgar, China, led to the detection of more than 4.5 million people. By prevention, the city of Qingdao has adopted the same strategy, performing about 11 million tests in only five days. There is no confusion as to the purposes of this method: it is a question of breaking the chains of contamination by insulating contagious individuals and giving those who cannot isolate themselves the ability to do so, rather than wanting, like some members of your majority, to establish new violations and impose sanctions on the French. Your policy of indecision slowly gnaws our front line, that of caregivers. The open letters of these professionals abound and all call for systematic screening. Moreover, this is the only method to break the chains and the safest, since it reduces the risk of surprise. The medical and social sectors demand that we reduce their sentence by systematizing screening; We owe it to them. They begged the authorities to trust these first connoisseurs of the terrain and its evolution. They are calling for this system to be put in place for the sole purpose of controlling the situation. Actually, we should even be outraged. Several medical specialists, along with the virus on a daily basis, have been denied the right to be tested; Some even stated that they had seen their colleagues with symptoms who were not allowed to be tested. At one month of the holidays, screening systematization is the only viable solution to prevent the rush in testing laboratories from now on. Rather than asking believers to measure the number of square meters in their places of worship, we must find out. If the tests were to be missed, what right could we decide who would have the right to be tested, and refuse a diagnosis to anyone who wants to know their state of health? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] You've been deaf to the opposition's warnings. By sectarianism, you mocked our proposals. You couldn't protect the French. Now humbly acknowledge your failure, and hear the voice of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u115	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u116	[[Murmures and conversations on the benches of the LR group]] The motion for a resolution before us concerns one of the pillars of the fight against the epidemic. To begin with, I would like to pay tribute to the biologists, whose efforts have made it possible to raise us among the countries that test the most in the world. They have demonstrated their full responsiveness, their ability to hire reinforcements, to put their teams on the line and to adapt to an unprecedented increase in activity, and they have also participated exemplaryly in the deployment of sampling sites on the territories. Don't you realize that? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please. I listened carefully and I'd like you to do the same, if possible. Thank you. Remember: the target set in May was 700000 tests per week; This fall, we have exceeded the 2 million test mark per week. I have been very attentive to your various interventions, all of very high quality; They testify to the importance of the subject. In response to this unprecedented epidemic, our testing system has indeed been deployed in a very short time frame, and it continues to evolve rapidly. We have the opportunity to see this every day. Among the challenges of this new viral threat, the presence of asymptomatic carriers is a special feature that must be taken into account in our testing strategy, both for diagnosis and screening. Deprister, that's good; It is even indispensable, and the Government has made it the first stone of the famous triptych "test, alert, protect". You will agree that screening is just the entry point for devices to protect our fellow citizens by blocking viral circulation. Thus, screening is conceived only in conjunction with protection and isolation strategies, which are logical consequences of the information provided by screening. Well, it's better to check it out. Your motion for a resolution makes it possible to clarify our choices in this area where there are several options available to us. It is likely that the best response is a multimodal strategy. At first glance, the option of a massive and regular screening is attractive since, on paper, it makes it possible to know on a large scale, without hole in the racket, who is carrying the virus and who is not. However, it is attractive only on paper, as a more careful observation on the ground shows the limits of the exercise. The relative performance of the tests, first of all: they can translate into a large number of false negatives in the event of mass screening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u117	It's kind of like masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u118	Individuals infected but not detectable or detected during their incubation period could thus pass between the meshes of the net. The second limitation is the need to have a maximum rate of completeness in order to obtain the best benefit and not to leave undetected people who could maintain viral circulation. Finally, these tests must be repeated at regular intervals in order to ensure the permanent tracking of the virus, due to the large number of population movements. As you said, large-scale testing has been experimented with abroad, particularly in Slovakia and Liverpool. In Slovakia about 1% of the 3.6 million people tested were positive, or 38,000 people. This experience has been associated with strict isolation policies. The analysis of these foreign experiences, whose data have not yet been published, has raised many questions and made many experts dubious. The Scientific Council recommends prior experimentation in certain targeted territories, in order to assess the relevance of this massive screening and the desirability of extending it to the entire national territory. Massive screening devices will therefore be deployed in the coming weeks in certain territories of Normandy, Hauts-de-France and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, in close connection with local authorities. A dialogue is under way, particularly with the agglomerations of Le Havre and Saint-Étienne. When questions persist on important scientific topics such as this one, the best answer scientists can provide is to put in place experimental programs, in order to better understand the issues, benefits and effects, before any wider deployment. Massive screening faces considerable practical and logistical obstacles when it is intended to be applied to 67 million people. As a reminder, China tested 10 million people in Wuhan in seventeen days. To achieve an efficiency similar to that of China, it would take almost four months for France to detect its population. So it is not enough to say "test them all", a message that resonates a bit like an incantation, almost like a pious wish. We also need to focus our efforts on the ongoing search for carriers of the virus, whether symptomatic or not,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u119	Incantations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u120	Awesome of impotence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u121	... in order to isolate them whenever the situation so requires. Do not see in this choice of targeted screening a lack of voluntarism. It is a choice of effectiveness in our efforts against this virus. Moreover, we are further strengthening the mechanisms put in place to achieve, in particular, the objective set by the President of the Republic: no more than 24 hours must pass between the demand and the result of the test. See, ladies and gentlemen, that we are mobilized. We must now concentrate our valuable forces to achieve these goals. While I mentioned the biologists in the preamble, I also have a grateful thought for all the health professionals who have been mobilizing for almost a year and are preparing to implement a historic vaccination campaign. Even if it would be a good war, I will not have the audacity to say, after others, that this motion for a resolution is a little late: now we are focusing 24 hours a day and seven days a week on the deployment of vaccines. We are testing a lot and will continue to do so by strengthening our devices and diversifying our tools, as well as complementing our strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u122	Test, test, and you'll be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u123	The rise in antigenic testing, recently expanded by the High Health Authority, facilitates this exercise by making it faster and more accessible. We share your desire for large-scale testing that requires experimental phases that we will conduct in the very near future. However, massive screening as envisaged by this motion for a resolution, which refers to systematic screening, has too many constraints to be truly effective. It seems that the best is the enemy of good, and efficiency must be our only requirement. It is not just an announcement effect, as some who promise to test everyone without exception, in an unstructured way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u124	No one's asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u125	Not only is this not possible, but it is neither relevant nor desirable for Mr Wauquiez. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] We all share the same goal: to end this damn virus. If prudence is to be exercised, the current situation would allow at least optimism if not serenity. It will not turn into a hangover if we continue our efforts by testing, alerting, protecting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u126	Not brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u127	Political politics is terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u128	On this motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u129	In explanation of vote, I call on Mr Damien Abad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u130	WHO said: test, test, test! However, the Government's testing policy has been very erratic. In the first wave, we tested little, as the report by Éric Ciotti yesterday shows: Germany tested 20 times more than France at the beginning of the confinement. This resolution aims to carry out two types of test: one before Christmas holidays, designed to protect the most vulnerable and fragile people, including our grandparents; the other after the day of the year, in order to soften the third wave or avoid it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's the goal. It's accurate, it's targeted. The Prime Minister has also embarked on this, but in a very limited way, since the experience concerns only three metropolises. We want to go much further, as Laurent Wauquiez does in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. We must lead this policy. Half of the tests are false negatives, we are told. Oh, my God. This remains a way to reduce the circulation of the virus: it is better to spot one in two cases than zero in two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u132	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Such a screening policy is necessary because no one will be able to control what will happen in the private and family sphere during those holidays. You have to check before and after the holidays. This is the objective of this resolution, which will help to avoid the third wave and better prepare the vaccination policy for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u133	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u134	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u135	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this resolution because we believe it is useful for the country. Without more information, because we are not specialists, we have been a few, on these benches, to ask the Minister to practice WHO policy: test, test, test! Once, we were told that this would be of no use because the test would have to be repeated every five minutes. Then we didn't get any more answers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u137	... the ministers just looking at us, and again, when they looked at us, what was already a great honour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u138	That is what the Government is not doing right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u139	The motion for a resolution seems to me to be useful and important at this moment because the studies show a correlation between temperature and the spread of the virus. In other words, since the temperatures have cooled considerably and the cooling has coincided with containment measures, there is a concern that at this very moment the conditions of the third wave are being prepared. As no other solution than containment has been thought out or planned, I repeat: there is a fear that the country will experience a new phase of containment. But we cannot keep France in prison like this, at regular intervals for a year or I don't know how much longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u140	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u141	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on many benches of the LR group]] That is why the resolution of colleagues in the LR Group is timely at the same time as it is important and interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u142	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u143	Without repeating what I said in my general discussion, I would like to say to our colleagues in the LR Group that they have an idealised vision of mass screening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u144	It's rowing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u145	And it's not the right file!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u146	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] My name's not Mrs. Marine Le Pen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u147	Sure, there's still a long way to go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u148	[[Same movements]] In conclusion, as I told you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u149	It's rowing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u150	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u151	...your text is satisfied with our Prime Minister's latest decisions. The La République group, I repeat, will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u152	All right, it's progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u153	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u154	My colleague Colombani spoke very well on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group: we will not support this motion for a resolution. However, I would like to ask ourselves the question of the means used and proposed by means of mass screening in France. The use of PCR tests is to be questioned: this tool is neither sensitive – nor too sensitive – nor specific. By using this PCR test, we can find small pieces of RNA – ribonucleic acid – but that absolutely do not correspond to what we are looking for, that is to say, covid-19. Why not move much more upstream, to make prevention, all the extraordinary means that are currently being spent? In this regard, the value of using vitamin D in prevention has been demonstrated by sufficient scientists. Please, ladies and gentlemen, read the opinion of the Academy of Medicine, dated 22 May, which recommends the massive and preventive use of vitamin D. It costs nothing and it can save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u155	You have to believe then that the problem is solved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u156	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u157	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As I said in the general discussion, the Group of the European Democratic Movement and related democrats will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because, on the one hand, it is staggered at a time when massive tests do not respond to urgency or priority...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u158	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u159	... and, on the other hand, the tools are not efficient. I said it and I say it again: for it to have a predictive value, a test must be sensitive to about 90%, whereas this rate is, at best, 67%, and it goes down to 20% in some clinical states. Therefore, the performance of the tests is far less than is recommended. In addition, these tests are random. Finally, we had a debate on the term "systematic" which, in my view, means "methodically". Under the current strategy, screening is done with a method and is adapted to the situation. We will therefore not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u160	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u161	... whose measures would cause confusion, unnecessary, uncertain and totally ineffective in terms of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u162	You'll see the third wave!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u163	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u164	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] In the sequence of instability in our country, at a time when the crisis and the pandemic are still present and issues remain, both within the Government and among the population, and in the wake of a Government initiative to conduct mass tests in certain metropolitan areas, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers that the Assembly's position in favour of a convergence of initiatives capable of maintaining a high level of vigilance and prevention is, in view of the uncertainty that persists, a positive element. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u165	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u166	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] I repeat: the Socialist and related groups will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Everyone perceives well, indeed, what is looming: large gatherings at Christmas and on New Year's Day. We all see around us preparing for the holidays, the consequence of which may be a new confinement in January. There's no need to be a big cleric to assume it! The adoption of such a resolution would also make it possible to prepare the vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u167	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u168	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 163 Number of votes cast 143 Absolute majority 72 For adoption 135 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u169	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law, adopted by the Senate, to guarantee the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic (No. 3439, 3600).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u170	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u171	It's the left wing of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u172	[[Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament stand up. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC groups, Take action, LT, IDU-I and non-attached Members]] First of all, I would like to join the Government's voice in paying tribute this morning to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who died yesterday after a life dedicated to the service of France and the French. I want to greet here, in this Chamber where he has sat so many times, the memory of a free man who has brought France into modernity. Many reforms have been initiated or supported, particularly in the area of law and justice: lowering the age of majority, divorce by mutual consent, and decriminalization of abortion. With his disappearance, France lost one of his great servants. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Today we are considering a constitutional bill resulting from the initiative of Senator Philippe Bas, Senator Bruno Retailleau and Senator Hervé Marseille, and adopted by the Senate on October 19 in a particular context: that of the horrific Islamist attack on Professor Samuel Paty. Unfortunately, this horrific tragedy was followed again by the terrible attack at the Basilica of Our Lady of the Assumption in Nice, which cost the lives of three Catholics, whose memory I also want to pay tribute to. For them, as for all victims of Islamic terrorism, we must be intractable in the face of abomination: intractable on the criminal response to be made – I will say no more, because the investigations are under way, but the sponsors, the perpetrators and the accomplices of these crimes must be punished, and they will be – but they will also be intractable on the defence of our values, for each time it is our freedoms that are targeted – freedom of expression, belief or not to believe, or to go and come. Every time, it is the foundations of our Republic that Islamists want to undermine. According to its title, the bill under debate aims to "ensure the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic" in a fractured France that must respond and face communalism. As I have asked your honourable senators, who can oppose the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic? I will go further: we should not even have to discuss it. For all Republicans, the question does not arise: it is a postulate, a non-negotiable condition of belonging to the national community. ("Yes! » on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u173	But this debate will mark the minds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u174	We all agree that Community drifts exist in our country. They threaten respect for republican law and life in society, as well as our ability to live together, side by side, when some would prefer to see us face to face. We also share the objective: we must act to preserve our republican pact against the Islamist threat. But we still need to act effectively. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] However, with regard to precisely the action to be taken, and as the Prime Minister has already indicated in this Chamber on 20 October, the Government cannot consider that this proposed constitutional law will achieve the objective set. He shares the view of the Law Commission that the Constitution should only be amended with a trembling hand. I regret to tell you that this bill is not based on sound enough foundation to meet this requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u175	Bravo! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u176	Let us enter, if you will, in the details of the text. Article 1 of the Constitution seeks to amend article 1 of the Constitution in order to prohibit any person from exempting himself or herself from the common rule on behalf of his or her origin or religion. Article 2 of the Constitution provides for the amendment of article 4 of the Constitution to require political parties to respect the principle of secularism. Who analyses this text precisely and concretely can only be struck by its inaccuracy. The purpose would be to prohibit any person from exempting himself or herself, in the name of his or her religion or origin, "from the observance of the common rule". But what is this common rule? This formula was extracted, in a clumsy manner, from a decision of the Constitutional Council of 19 November 2004 which considered a matter of cult policing. However, it did not, for the Council, have the very general scope that the bill we are considering today intends to lend to it. Without the explanations of the authors of the text, it would be difficult to understand that the "common rule" they mention concerns both the law and the regulation as well as the internal regulations of companies or associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u178	This concept is therefore subject to interpretation, whereas the law must be clear and self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u180	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u181	I repeat: we are talking about revising the Constitution. The contours of the rule of law cannot be approximate. On the other hand, exemption from the common rule on religious grounds would remain possible within the framework of derogations that already exist in our law. So what is the contribution of the bill? It is only a matter of reaffirming the unity of the French people. This text is therefore redundant and unnecessary, since this principle is already enshrined in the Constitution, as the Constitutional Council has been firmly recalling for more than thirty years. If you will allow me this imperative, read Article 1 of our Basic Law: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u182	And social!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u183	...and social. » This proposal is also approximate in its objectives, at the risk of disproportionate harm to freedom of conscience. It would call into question a constitutional framework set out 231 years ago by a clear formula, anchored in our constitutional bloc: "No one should be disturbed for his or her views, even religious, provided that their manifestation does not disturb the public order established by law. This is indeed article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u185	However, this article does not merely establish the freedom of religious belief and practice, but also sets the limit: the public order established by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u186	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u187	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u188	This is a clear and balanced rule, which I do not think should be amended. While the objective of this bill is to strengthen secularism and the fight against separatist drifts, this bill will not achieve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u189	I'm not sure that yours is more successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u190	The challenge is not to reaffirm in the Constitution the secularism or other constitutional principles that are already perfectly established: it is to ensure that they are scrupulously respected – which is obviously a little more difficult. Our fundamental law already makes it possible to find the right balance between freedom of worship and the authority of the State. It already proclaims the secularity of our Republic and the unity of the French people. It already prohibits, through the principle of equality, the recognition of rights to groups on grounds of origin or religion. Finally, respect for public order can always justify obstructing religious freedom – I am thinking in particular of the law of 11 October 2010 prohibiting the concealment of the face in public space.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u191	Adopted under President Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u192	What our country needs to achieve the goal we all share is to strengthen the application of the principle of secularism, but also to modernise it and adapt it to the changes in our society. This is precisely the subject of the future bill aimed at strengthening secularism and strengthening the republican principles that the Government will be presenting in the near future. The purpose of this text will be to combat separatist drifts. In particular, in the area of justice, it will include a new mechanism to combat online hatred, with the creation of a particular offence of endangering others on the Internet. This text, which will give us concrete tools, will, I believe, guarantee the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic, without having to touch the Constitution. Faced with the dangers that threaten us, the time is not for incantation, but for action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u193	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] As you will understand, I do not consider this to be the path that the bill is taking today in debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u195	Mrs Annie Genevard, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u196	Aristide Briand, the rapporteur of the church-state separation law of 1905, considered that the law protects faith as long as faith does not claim to dictate the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u197	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u198	"As long as faith does not claim to dictate the law": we are there. For several decades, a religious, extremist and political movement has woven its web to impose its law, which is not written but diffuses its precepts through moral and legal pressure by diverting the intentions of the constituents of 1789. The result is community withdrawal, inequality between men and women, incitement to hatred and even violent actions, in short, the refusal of integration into French society until it has submitted itself. Can we turn our attention away from the pretext – which I dispute – that everything would already be included in the Constitution, as if it were superfluous to say once again its certainties as one repeats his love to the loved one? This proposed constitutional law invites you, among other things, to reiterate your love for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u200	The French Republic allows everyone to live according to their beliefs, to defend their ideas with respect for others and for the law. In this it guarantees the practical application of our motto: freedom, equality, fraternity. This universalism respectful of everyone in the interests of all constitutes our republican conception of the common destiny that unites the French and to which the majority of them adheres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u201	Even in private education?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u202	This French model, so singular among the great democracies, is the opposite of the multiculturalism on which communalism is based. It is for this reason that this universalism is attacked by the separatists. In schools, in places of worship, in associations, in sports clubs, in companies, everywhere communityism tends to impose a counter-model. In drawing this conclusion, we do not seek to deepen the divisions that can undermine our society, as has been said in committee, nor to worry our fellow citizens by agitating a threat that some claim to be marginal. On the contrary, there is lucidity, respect and listening for those who are silently subjected to this situation. Whatever our political family, whether we are elected from rural or urban land, we cannot deny the facts. The actors of the daily, mayors, directors of establishments, economic actors or associations, regularly warn us. They do not denounce a religion or a group of people, as was also said in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u203	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u204	...but anti-republican behaviour, a real political project. In this regard, I would like to quote the words of the Rector of the Great Mosque of Paris: "The withdrawal on oneself, commonly known as "communitarism", does not serve Muslims or the Republic, which rightly recognizes only the national community. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u205	Ah! You can see that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u206	This is exactly the same message addressed to us by the great rabbi of France, the archbishop of Bordeaux and the Protestant Federation of France. The reality is that 74 per cent of young people of Muslim faith claim to put their religious beliefs ahead of the values of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u207	But this is the case of 100% of believers, Mrs. Genevard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u208	You'll talk later!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u209	These figures are of serious concern. In the face of this situation, it is more necessary than ever to recall the value of our republican principles and the primacy, Mr. keeper of seals, of the common rule on individual claims – we will return to it. That is the whole purpose of this constitutional bill of our fellow senators, Philippe Bas, Bruno Retailleau and Hervé Marseille. It reaffirms in its Article 1e r what should be obvious: no one can rely on his or her origin or religion to exonerate himself or herself from the common rule. In so doing, it supplements the provisions of article 1 of the Constitution and clarifies its meaning. Article 2 provides for the inclusion in article 4 of our Constitution of the obligation of political parties to respect the principle of secularism in the same way as national sovereignty and democracy. In the Senate, these two provisions were passed unanimously by the voters despite the reluctance you expressed, Mr.Setting the Seals. I remind the majority that their fellow senators abstained on this text. Will you have the same sense of responsibility as the wise men of the Palace of Luxembourg? I hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u210	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u211	I would now like to stress the scope of this bill. How will it be useful – since many colleagues have asked me about this in committee? Legally, while the Constitutional Council, in its decision of 19 November 2004, recognized the prohibition on anyone "to use his religious beliefs in order to free himself from the common rules governing relations between public authorities and private individuals", it did not mention the situation of other sectors, including associations and economics. Nor has the Council raised the issue of identity claims related to origin, as provided for in Article 1 of the bill – you have not said anything about it, Mr Keeper of the Seals. However, the defence of republican values cannot stop at the threshold of a company, a medical practice or a sports club. It is obviously not a question of intervening in the private sphere, but of clarifying the constitutional framework concerning private actors. While tools exist, such as the adaptation of the company's internal regulations since the El Khomri Act of 2016, the risk of litigation is most often borne on an individual basis by those who make the public interest take precedence over the particular interests of a minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u212	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u213	If the State protects the actors in the public service, those in the private sector are left to themselves, with the risk of renunciation created by this solitude. In committee, some colleagues said that the law in force was sufficient and that the judge should be allowed to assess the circumstances. This one is independent, we agree, but he needs tools. We provide it with an explanation of the meaning of the general principles of Article 1 of the Constitution. In the Baby Wolf crèche case, it took five court decisions to clear the employer. Our text would have established from the outset the primacy of the common rule, in this case the regulation of the association, over an individual claim. I therefore consider the remark made by Jean-Éric Schoettl that it is never indifferent to include jurisprudence in the constitutional marble. A judge can change his position over the years, especially by marrying a spirit of time more in line with the ideology of the elites than with the feeling of the people. What is enshrined in the Constitution, on the other hand, remains there. Professor Anne Levade also points out that this is an additional and undeniable legal certainty which allows, under constant constitutional law, to clarify the intention of the constituent and the scope of our republican principles. Still from a legal point of view, this proposal would usefully complement the future bill that reinforces republican principles – for what we know to date. By covering a wider field and by the force of the fundamental law, it would strengthen the overall coherence of our law in this area. Politically, I recall that, in his speech from the Walls on 2 October 2020, the President of the Republic called on everyone, according to his duties, to take responsibility for separatism. The Republicans fully respond to this call. On the symbolic level, finally, the expression of a national union on this text would in itself be a strong political message.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u214	That would require a referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u215	The French aspire to this harmony on the rules of life together. In accordance with article 89 of the Constitution, all French people, regardless of their origin or belief, will express their support in a referendum many of them wish for because, as General de Gaulle claimed, in France, the supreme court is the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u216	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u217	I would like to conclude by clearly recalling what this bill does not provide for. It does not call into question the exceptions provided for by the law in force, whether it concerns the consideration of certain religious requirements or rules derived from laws before the Act of 1905. I am thinking in particular of the concordataire status of Alsace-Moselle...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u218	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u219	... or to the special regime of Guyana which we shall discuss again. Nor does it call into question the possibility for parties to claim a religious or philosophical heritage as long as they do not campaign against the secular and indivisible character of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u220	Of course they are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u221	It simply makes it possible to recall forcefully and solemnly that the only community belonging to the French is the national community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u222	Defined by the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore an unhoped-for opportunity that must be seized by all those who are committed to defending French national unity and universalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u224	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u225	In the general debate, Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u226	Since 2012, our country has been attacked, threatened and wounded by Islamist terrorism, 270 of which our fellow citizens have been victims. Paris, Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray, Villejuif, Conflans-Sainte-Honorine or Nice – on three occasions – mark some of the stations of this long tragic procession. This terrorism has found fertile manure in the communalism that gangstifies our neighbourhoods. Our nation is facing an unprecedented rise in this trend. The progress of Islamist demands threatens our republican pact. Let us say that the Republic is in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u227	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u228	Everywhere in France, radical and violent proselytism defies what we are, our history, our identity, our culture, the Republic, at home and even in its heart, at school, at university – temple of knowledge –, at the hospital, now a prisoner of these obscurantisms, in public sports infrastructures or in associations. We impose the veil, we pray on the floor. We refuse to shake hands with a woman or work with her. They refuse to be tested and cared for by a caregiver according to their gender. Canteens refuse dishes that are not in keeping with their beliefs. One refuses to learn the Shoah or the theory of evolution in science courses and sometimes even history. We refuse to talk about religions, republic, secularism, caricature. Today, 74% of French Muslims under the age of 25 claim to place Islam before the Republic. Yes, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the Republic is clearly under threat in its foundations, in what binds our nation, in what is most essential, in our social and republican pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u229	What a fool!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u230	All the shortcuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u231	Without secularism, France would be fragmented, fragmented, divided. It would no longer be a dangerous juxtaposition of communities of interest, antagonistic groups that would feed the face-to-face that you mentioned. At the time of leaving Beauvau Square, the Prime Minister of the Interior of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium warned us about what he considered to be a confrontation that gangens our neighborhoods and could lead to this face-to-face. France, without secularism, would no longer be a nation; France, quite simply, would no longer be France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u232	I'm so glad to see this bunch of bigotes hanging out at the feet of secularism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u233	For my part, ladies and gentlemen, I hope – like each and every one of you, I am convinced – that France remains France. In the face of the Islamists, these enemies of the Republic, whom we know, whom we have identified, and which President Macron has at last dared to name in very fine speeches, we must note that we can no longer continue to show the naivety that has weakened us so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u234	You, yes, but not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u235	It must be noted that our law serves the enemies of the Republic more often than it protects it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u236	"No freedom for the enemies of freedom"? That's curious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u237	[[Smile on the bench of the commission]] Recurrent censorship... I note, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, that these terms make you react. The recurrent censorships of the attempt to penalise the consultation of jihadist sites – the Constitutional Council has twice pronounced itself on the subject – of the attempt to monitor Islamists released from prison – between 2018 and 2022, there will be 2540 and they are already a little less than 2000 in this case... You seem to say that these numbers are false, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but they are found on your ministry's website. Of course, there are 300 sentenced Islamist terrorists, as well as ordinary prisoners who are subject to radicalization. These figures are not questionable; To challenge them is already, in a way, to deny the problem. Yes, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you are aware of the problems. However, you are in a position that leads you to ask that nothing be changed about our fundamental law. I think it's a profound mistake. For several years – this goes back a long way before the current majority came to power – I have been defending in this Chamber the idea that it is essential to adapt our fundamental law to the threats facing our country. We had a great opportunity today. Over the centuries, we have already adapted our right to the threat; Since 1958, the Constitution has been amended 24 times. Today, we could have revised it again: as we face various jurisprudences of the Constitutional Council, which are more and more out of step with the threat to us, the text, which we could have enriched, adopted unanimously by the Senate, offered us the opportunity to act together, to amend our Constitution and to affirm that the people are sovereign to adapt their fundamental law. Because the people of France want security and they want to be protected, while some believe that this protection has less value than the individual freedom of a few terrorists, we must speak out together here, we must have this courage, we must show this will. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I tell you by looking at you: I am sure that, in the months or years to come, we will be obliged to amend our constitution in order to adapt our right. I'll bet it in front of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u238	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u239	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u240	[[Rires on the benches of the Commission and the Government]] Let's not waste time! This is a text adopted unanimously in the Senate; We could do the same and join a great step beyond the short time and the time of emotion. Let us leave this system which, after each tragedy, leads you to announce a text whose indigent and weak measures we are looking at because limited by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which largely deprives us of our ability to change things. I know that, in her own right, the president of the Law Committee approves me, because she has been confronted with these situations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u241	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u242	We have been seized of a succession of texts which consist only in small pieces and, tomorrow, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, with the future bill on separatism, you will encounter the same difficulties, we will have the same debates, and the great – and sometimes beautiful – speeches of the President of the Republic will have turned, when it promulgates the law, into a lukewarm water net that will not in any way be commensurate with the gravity of the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have heard what the majority has said in very excessive terms during the debate in the Committee on Laws. I deeply regret that you do not take advantage of the historic opportunity that is offered to ensure that a consensus of all the republicans provides safeguards against the rise of communalism. You don't want to grab that outstretched hand; I regret that, and I believe that history will make you feel sorry for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u243	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u244	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u245	The proposed constitutional law transmitted to us by the Senate is part of the particular French context of the rise of Islamism and the series of murderous attacks that have not ceased since January 7, 2015. I would like to welcome the quality of our discussions during the examination of the text in the Committee on Laws, and to stress the ambition of our common objectives. There are two provisions in the text. The first provides for the prohibition of any group or individual from "using their origin or religion to exonerate themselves from the observance of the common rule". One can only agree, but the incorporation of such a principle into the Constitution poses two difficulties. First of all, what is the common rule except the law? One can imagine that these are all the rules of the law in force, i.e. positive law, which is supposed to apply in the rule of law: laws, regulations, but also jurisprudence and custom, which are both evolving, to which must no doubt be added certain conventions of private law such as collective agreements, and perhaps even the internal regulations of enterprises. All this is uncertain. In my view, unconvincing explanations have been provided by the authors of the text. It is clear from this that, while we understand the general intention, we have to debate a constitutional bill whose scope is not precise, in a context that is extremely sensitive to the problems it is supposed to address. It's already a real handicap. Second question: what would be the usefulness of these provisions, if they were to be adopted? In concrete terms, what could Islamist separatism no longer do tomorrow than it has the freedom to do in the current state of the Constitution? Nothing, I think. The new wording of the Constitution would not prevent a mayor from authorizing the wearing of the burkini in a municipal swimming pool, as happened in some French cities with, it seems, the prefect's agreement. Note that in 2014, the current drafting of the Constitution did not prevent the Court of Cassation from imposing on an employee of the Baby Nursery Loup respect for the principle of secularism – I thank you for raising this point, Madam rapporteur. [["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] Always very sensitive to the quality of the interventions of my publicist colleagues Guillaume Larrivé and Olivier Marleix,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u246	Mazette!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u247	...I have read with great attention the decision of 19 November 2004 of the Constitutional Council, which we have commented on extensively. The Council considers that Articles 1 to 3 of the Constitution "contrary to the recognition of collective rights to any group defined by a community of origin, culture, language or belief". Everything is already said, there is nothing to add. The second provision of the proposed constitutional law adds the principle of secularism to those of national sovereignty and democracy that political parties are required to respect. Again, I agree with the authors, but the problem is not there. Our democracy is based on the freedom of opinion, the widest possible, without which we would no longer be in democracy. The limits that General de Gaulle intended to place on this freedom, in Article 4 of the Constitution, are therefore reduced to the essence: national sovereignty, which prevents our nation from sinking into servitude, and democracy, which is the very principle of our society, the foundation of our institutions. The longer we extend the list of these limits – even with the best intentions in the world – the more democracy will be limited. Let's be more concrete. It is not by adding new principles to Article 4 of the Constitution that we will prevent the appearance of community lists in the elections, or even the possible emergence of a candidate claiming Islam in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u248	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u249	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] The answer must be in my view a different order. Nearly six years after Charlie Hebdo's attack, while the terrorist enterprise continues, the time has come to ask the question of Islamist separatism and to give itself the legislative, economic, security and possibly even demographic means of responding to it. We will do it first by giving a name to things; I know that the Government is determined to do so. The Democratic Movement and Related Democrats Group will not vote on the proposed constitutional law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u250	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u251	Beyond the particular context already widely mentioned, we all share here the objective of living in accordance with the rules of our secular Republic and we all refuse that values other than those enshrined in our fundamental law may be imposed in our public life. Rather than impose on you a claim of general considerations, I propose that you proceed to a literal review of the proposed constitutional law. According to its title, it aims to "guarantee the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic", as if this were not the case or more so and that it was necessary to reaffirm the republican principles. We do not share this finding of degradation. The first sentence of article 1 of the Constitution reads as follows: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. Secularity is thus a common value in the same way as the three other values cited. It is on a neutral space that we have voluntarily built our model around all these essential values. France is a country of cultural and ethnic pluralism but, traditionally, is not a "multicultural" country: individuals are seen above all as citizens before being appreciated as members of a particular community. Thus, a religion, whatever it may be, cannot preempt our republican values. This is what our predecessors wrote in the 1905 law. I therefore wonder about the usefulness of Article 1 of the text: not being able to exonerate itself from the observance of the common rules, it is no other thing in my opinion, unless you give us another meaning, than to submit to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u252	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u253	This principle is already enshrined in the Constitution: the law is binding on all. It is our inability to bring about the common rule or rules, and to adopt laws that give life and respect to the values enshrined in our Constitution, that would, in your opinion, form the basis of this new requirement of "respect for common rules"; It would in a way be an admission of impotence, to which this constitutional amendment would seek to remedy. Dean Vedel explained that secularism corresponds to the assertion that the state considers belief or unbelief as a private matter. In line with this finding, the Law of 20 April 2016 on the Ethics and Rights and Obligations of Officials enshrined the principle of secularism and introduced the obligation of neutrality for public officials because they embody the State? Sort of. Would you doubtless like this fundamental principle of the functioning of the public service to be applied in the private sphere, particularly at the heart of the company? To that, I respond modestly to two things. The first is that secularism must neutralize the religious fact and that it must do so in the public sphere. If this corresponds to a necessity and the needs of private activity, the legislator can examine the question of neutralization in the expression of the religious fact, in the spotlight of our republican values, and in respect of the principle of proportionality. Then I call for caution: the user of the public service, rightly so, is not subject to the duty of neutrality imposed on the public official. Of course, it's complicated. But the completion of Article 1 would not change the complexity of our democracy. Together, let us ensure the pedagogy of this complexity, and above all, let us have the political courage to ensure that the common rules are applied, as my colleague Senator Patrick Kanner said yesterday. With regard to article 2, to impose the requirement of neutrality on political parties is in my view to reduce the universal scope of republican values enshrined in the Constitution. What this article 2 wants to prohibit is already forbidden by the reading that we make of the fundamental law. It sets limits contrary to the objective that unites us, that is to guarantee republican values. We cannot be complacent with those who deconstruct the Republic and its values, which we hold dear. However, it is not a lack of clarity in the Constitution that causes dissonant situations in this area. We must denounce them and, as public decision-makers, bring solutions. This responsibility lies with us, here by enacting laws, and on the ground, by monitoring their implementation. We must avoid the trap of amalgams and ostracisms, and remember without fail the obligations imposed on everyone in the neutral space that we have built. In conclusion, while specifying that it shares the objective of respecting the essential principle of secularism, the Socialist and Related Group considers that the proposed law does not add anything to what the constituents have already written and does not provide really effective proposals to ensure respect for secularism. That is why he will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u254	Too bad! It was good, there were ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u255	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u256	This proposal for a constitutional law is based on the assessment that community aspirations are increasingly expressed. To remedy this, it aims to reaffirm that the laws of the Republic prevail over norms derived from religious beliefs or over rules established on ethnic affiliations. As in the Committee on Laws, where the text has not been adopted, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this proposal. However, we reiterate that we are not opposed to amending the Constitution if it is necessary to empower those who are fighting to uphold the law and our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u257	Bravo, that's a good position!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u258	Although we fully defend the intentions of this bill to safeguard the Republic and secularism, the proposed additions to the Constitution pose a challenge to us. Indeed, the first article is intended to supplement article 1 of the Constitution in order to affirm that "no individual or group may avail itself of its origin or religion in order to exempt itself from the observance of the common rule. With such a constitutional law, we will no longer be able to claim any derogation from the rules in the name of its origins or religion, says Philippe Bas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u259	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u260	I must attest to my surprise, as I recognize the great qualities of our honourable senator as a lawyer. Perhaps we should recall the drafting of articles 1 and 4 of the Constitution. Article 1 states that "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. It ensures the equality before the law of all citizens without distinction as to origin, race or religion. She respects all beliefs. The statements are clear and very satisfactory: they are largely protective of our republican values. The Constitutional Council's jurisprudence on article 1 is illuminating on this point. In its decision of 15 June 1999, it held, inter alia, that "the principle of the uniqueness of the French people, of which no section can attribute itself to the exercise of national sovereignty, is also constitutional" and that "these fundamental principles are opposed to the recognition of collective rights to any group, defined by a community of origin, culture, language or belief". In the decision of 19 November 2004, the wise men stressed that the provisions of article 1 of the Constitution "prohibit anyone from using his religious beliefs in order to free himself from the common rules governing relations between public authorities and individuals". [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Article 2 of the draft law seeks to clarify, in article 4 of the Constitution, that political parties and groups must respect not only the principles of national sovereignty and democracy, but also secularism, in order to prevent communal parties. On this point, as we have indicated in the Law Committee, the Action Together Group argues that it is preferable to debate and enrich the bill that reinforces the republican principles that will soon arrive at the office of our Assembly. As you know, the Government's text is very much expected and will be a genuine legislative vehicle, more adapted in our view to address these problems related to communalism, with longer debates, an impact assessment and an opinion of the Council of State. All these elements are necessary to strengthen the principle and respect for secularism in our country. I would like to alert you, to alert us collectively, ladies and gentlemen. Beyond legislative inflation, the law suffers from another evil: the lack of normativity. It produces a soft right, by which Parliament assures citizens of its good intentions, without fearing that they will subsequently get involved in finding no concrete traces of it in their daily lives. The law then loses its sacrality and only distracts attention from its recipients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u261	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u262	The purpose of this proposed constitutional law is to reaffirm that the laws of the Republic prevail over norms derived from religious beliefs or from rules justified by ethnicity. This text, adopted in the Senate on the proposal of the Republican and Centralist Union groups, consists of two articles. Article 1 is intended to insert in article 1 of the Constitution that "No individual or group may avail itself of his or her origin or religion in order to exempt itself from the observance of the common rule. It is interesting to note that the term "common rule" would cover the law and regulations, as well as the internal regulations of businesses and public services. By explicitly enshrining constitutional jurisprudence, protecting a demanding conception of republican equality, this provision will give public authorities, as well as employers, an indisputable basis for refusing differentiated treatment on the basis of religious beliefs. This provision is likely to enhance legal certainty, in particular for companies. Article 2 of the Constitution states that political parties respect the principle of secularism. Technically, this implies that public money cannot be used to finance communal parties and their candidates, and that such parties could be dissolved if they do not respect the rules of secularism. In the light of recent events, it is necessary to open the debate. These constitutional additions may contribute to greater legal certainty and allow the Constitutional Council to refine its existing jurisprudence on the subject. The scope of this text is obviously positive, but also eminently political: it is to say what we are. The multiculturalism that prevails in some countries, notably Anglo-Saxons, does not characterize France. This proposed constitutional law reiterates the common affirmation of our priority in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on several benches of the LR group]] Our model of integration is based on our history. Unfortunately, our Republic is in difficulty today. Many actions are needed, in addition to such a revision of our fundamental text. It is in part the ambition of the bill that reinforces the republican principles that will be presented next week in the Council of Ministers. Indeed, the exemption or differentiated application of the rules on grounds of belief or belief, the principle of neutrality of public services and the observance of a contract of engagement of republican for associations that apply for a grant are all subjects related to the protection of our Republic and to our social contract. In this regard, we consider it useful to clarify and supplement the Constitution in order to forcefully affirm its founding principles. That is why the independent IDU Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u265	Even the majority are coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u266	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u267	The questions posed by Annie Genevard with this text, which relate to secularism or the place of religions in our Western liberal societies, are increasingly agitating the public debate. The facts are there, we must face the rise of an Islamist ideology barbaric and mortiferous. The balance is sometimes difficult to find between the preservation of freedoms and the need to prevent barbaric acts and to adopt an intransigent criminal response. If we understand and share its purpose, that is to say, to restrict as much as possible the captures of radical Islamist currents from public life, this constitutional bill is, in our view, problematic, because it refers to a conception of the Republic that is not mine, nor that of the majority of the members of the Freedom and Territory Group. This text tends to establish a uniform and uniform Republic, which does not take into account the history and diversity of certain countries and territories, in particular the fact that the State created the Republic by forceps, going so far as to colonize many peoples and historical nations – such as Corsica, of course. Whatever one thinks of their ideas, to call communautarians the autonomists and nationalists Corsicans, Basques, Alsatians or Bretons, by comparing them with barbaric Islamists, is an insult. That is precisely why I cannot follow you, because your – our – legitimate fight against the Islamists, who founded your need to legislate, will generalize, by ricochet, to other political struggles, which are in no way to be put on the same level. I do not hide it, as you know: like my colleagues Castellani and Colombiani, I am a Corsican patriot. We are campaigning for the transfer to the island of many parts of decision-making and competences, in order to draw up directly a common rule adapted to island reality. Do you consider that I do not respect the common rule? Does that make me an enemy of the Republic? What is the common rule referred to in Article 1? The same is true of article 6 of the Government's bill to combat separatism, which aims to combat associations that do not respect the values of the Republic. But what are they? How far do we go? Is it about cultures, customs and customs, or any standard applicable to French citizens, from the circular to the Constitution? What are we doing, for example, with the concordat d'Alsace-Moselle, which admits special rules in the field of cults?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u269	By including certain interpretations of constitutional jurisprudence in the marble of the Constitution, for example, the Constitutional Council's decision of 15 June 1999 on the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages could be constitutionalized, according to which France could not ratify it without constitutional reform. This decision affirms that "the principle of the uniqueness of the French people, of which no section can attribute itself to the exercise of national sovereignty, also has constitutional value" and that "these fundamental principles oppose the recognition of collective rights to any group, defined by a community of origin, culture, language or belief". The adoption of this bill would thus deny France the possibility, after debate, of ratifying such a charter, of recognizing the peoples who make up it and who form an integral part of its history. It would hinder access to political autonomy of full right and full exercise, which our group defends for the territories that would demand it on the basis of the principles of differentiation and legislative adaptation. Finally, we sincerely believe that this bill is useless to combat Islamic fundamentalism – its real target – since our legal arsenal already includes the necessary means to sanction violations of the law on this basis. Moreover, article 1 of the Constitution is clear: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. It ensures the equality before the law of all citizens without distinction as to origin, race or religion. She respects all beliefs. Everything is said. I stress, because it is all too often heard from high officials or various observers, that the word "one" no longer appears since 1946 – it was indeed a will of General de Gaulle –; But the "one and indivisible" Republic remains a French myth. Moreover, the word "one" would not call political autonomy into question: for example, the Italian Constitution provides that "the Republic, one and indivisible, recognizes and promotes local autonomy". Article 2 seeks to ensure that the principle of secularism is respected by political parties. All right, but what do we do with Christian-Democratic parties, for whom Christianity is an important foundation of values? Even if we have to defend secularism, the risk of introducing a form of police of the currents of political thought seems too high. The Constitution and the law are already well provided to combat dangerous groups, which the State has never deprived itself of dissolving. The fight against religious obscurantism and terrorism is not, or more, legal; It requires above all a fierce will to uphold our principles, and in particular that of secularism, on the ground. It is through intelligence, control, repression if it is necessary that the struggle be carried out. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u270	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u271	If there was any doubt about what is covered by this text, which remains with a few redundant and useless generalities, the interventions we have heard will have shed enough light on us: you are aiming at Islam, and you are doing so without discernment, without taking into account the long history of France, to which the wars of religion have never earned anything good. What are we doing at this time? We are fighting terrorist political jihadism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u273	We must give ourselves the means, and the first of these means is not to give him victory by assigning him an ability to represent the Muslims of France he does not have, and by agreeing to divide us, the French, according to our religion! That is what jihadism must be denied, and that is what I intend to do in this rostrum. I will begin by saying that I share the suffering of the Muslims of Brétigny-sur-Orge, attacked yesterday by a ram car launched against their mosque, as I associated myself with the only protest that took place in this country after the attacks at the Bordeaux mosque, the demonstration of November 10. Your text invents hot water. He repeats that the Constitution applies to all – the beautiful discovery! Declare then, while you are there, that all those who cease to breathe are condemned to death, and you will have made the same advance. It doesn't make sense. The time has come to remember that 80 per cent of the victims of jihadism in the world are Muslim. In our territory, the abominable attack in Nice resulted in victims of all religions. We all know that very well. We must not give the point to our enemies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u274	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u275	[[MM. Brahim Hammouche and Mustapha Laabid applaud]] At this moment, I have a tight heart thinking about my comrades murdered in Algeria by political Islamism; I have a tight heart thinking about my comrades Chokri Belaïd and Mohamed Brahmi, murdered in Tunisia because, as leaders of the Popular Front, they wanted to proclaim the secular character of the Tunisian Republic. Let us not confuse them, let us not forget them, let us not despise them, these Muslims of a tradition that begins with Averroes and continues with mutazilism, who have always opposed the imposition of religious law on the law of the city! And in the Qur'an, if you want to know, it's written in all letters! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] After that, you can always say that 74% of young Muslims think that God's law is above civil law. But 100% of believers believe that God's law is superior to any law – and if they do not believe it, then they are heretics or unbelievers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u276	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u277	We can accept the law of God, and then accept the civil law! And this is what believers do, for example, who do not want abortion; They will not use it for themselves but respect the freedom of others. And believing in the first of the decalogue's articles, "you will not kill," did not prevent any Christian from performing his duty in the service of the homeland, even though it meant that much had to be killed, alas, alas, alas – and between Christians, as was the case in the wars between France and Germany. The war of religion will never be worth anything to France. Three centuries of war between Catholics and Protestants, after a thousand years of mistreatment of Jews: where did this lead us? Nowhere, until the great law of 1905, which says the only thing worth mentioning: the state does not recognize any religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u278	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u279	Your text is of absolute hypocrisy. Do you intend to dissolve the white identity and supremacist parties that exist in France? No. Do you intend to dissolve the Jewish Defence League, which has grossly insulted the parliamentarians of France and forced them to leave, under the protection of the police, a demonstration, and when this organization is declared a terrorist in Israel and the United States of America? Neither.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u280	Is that why you were at the November 10 demonstration?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u281	Do you intend to stop relations with Islamic regimes that each year condemn dozens of people to the death penalty or stoning? Neither. We are wasting our time and giving France a lamentable image. No, there is no war in France against Muslims! There is secularism, the implacable law that applies to all in the same way. And that is only that, Member of Parliament for Corsica,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u282	You're a manipulator, Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u283	... which gives you reason: the French Republic is indivisible in the sense that the law decided by all applies to all. The only community admitted to France is the legal community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u284	Get back on the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u285	We have to conclude...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u286	I will return to the discussion of the amendments on what remains to be said. But remember this: no religious war in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u287	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u288	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u289	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left opposes these two changes which, far from providing answers to the challenge, are at best like display, at worst a dangerous DIY – in contrast to the rule of the trembling hand evoked by Mr. the keeper of the seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u291	Our colleagues in the Republican Group propose that article 1 of our Constitution should be supplemented by the words: "No individual or group may use its origin or religion to exempt themselves from the observance of the common rule. One can only agree with the meaning of this sentence, since this is the sine qua non condition for everyone to live calmly within the Republic. This is even the primary objective of its establishment during the French Revolution. The Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights has constitutional force, and clearly states it in its Article 3 – "The principle of all Sovereignty lies essentially in the Nation. No body, no individual can exercise any authority that does not expressly emanate from it" – as in article 10 – "No one shall be disturbed for his opinions, even religious, provided that their manifestation does not disturb the public order established by the Law" – as you have recalled, Mr. But this text is not the only one that guarantees these principles: the Constitution itself already does so. Article 3 states: "National sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it through their representatives and through the referendum. No section of the people or any individual can exercise it. It is on this basis that the Constitutional Council, in its 2004 decision on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, wrote that "the provisions of Article 1 of the Constitution under which France is a secular Republic... prohibit anyone from using his religious beliefs to free themselves from the common rules governing relations between public authorities and individuals". In our view, therefore, there is no need to overburden our Constitution by adding already guaranteed principles. This provision would not give any additional tools to those who, in the field, have to deal with each other's claims. The French model is indeed very different from that of Anglo-Saxon societies. It is imperative that we keep it; We do not want a society in which everyone lives in their neighbourhood according to their origin, with each one their restaurants, sports clubs, places of socialization. But to do this, we must not abandon public services on entire parts of our territories; we must empower our school to fulfil its emancipatory role; We must not condemn millions of people to insecurity. If we allow the social anomy to develop, there will be a community retreat, because the community will reassure. Democratic, social, secular, the Republic is inextricably linked to these three principles. Putting content behind the word Republic, that's the stakes. With regard to political parties and groups, you propose that we add to article 4 of the Constitution an obligation to respect secularism. But we don't do the law to ban parties that don't suit us. The limit, again, already exists: like all citizens, members of a political party are subject to criminal sanctions if there is incitement to discrimination, hatred and violence. Again, the answer must be political. Finally, we will each have to take our responsibilities, very soon, in the debate on the bill "consolidating republican principles". There is a point of clarifying the rules of our republican pact. We will be part of this debate. [[MM. Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Bruno Questel applaud]] For all these reasons, the GDR Group will vote against this constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u292	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u293	After it has been widely rejected by the Law Committee of our Assembly, we are meeting this morning to discuss the constitutional bill proposed by our colleagues in the Republican Group, which aims at nothing less than "ensuring the rule of the laws of the Republic". While this bill was passed by 229 votes when it was read in the Senate, 119 senators did not wish to vote. The meeting was held two days after the cowardly assassination of Mr. Samuel Paty by an Islamist with multiple and varied intentions, all linked by an assumed feeling: the hatred of France, our history, our culture and our Republic. When reading the Senate debates, we measure the legitimate emotion of all our colleagues, even though the national tribute to the professor victim of Islamist barbarism had not yet been given by the President of the Republic, and through him by the entire nation. To our colleagues in the Republicans Group, I must say that I was surprised at the careful reading of the explanatory memorandum to the bill they are defending today, such as debates in the Senate and the rapporteur's report. The image I had of the institutions of the Republic was that of a constitution that had been revised 24 times since 1958, but which I clearly misconceived in your eyes in its great balance. Unfortunately, everything is lost, and we regret that you consider it necessary to return again, as if inadvertently or by boredom. To submit, as you propose, the constitutional text to the uncertainties – however dramatic they may be – of contemporary history amounts to abandoning the reform of the country with us, as we will undertake in a few weeks' time with the bill that reinforces the republican principles. We will then be able to legislate in concrete terms, not in incantatoryly as you propose this morning. We will be able to adopt provisions to ensure respect for republican principles and to strengthen the free exercise of religions, while respecting our institutions. We will strengthen, without the need to engrave it in the constitutional marble, the preeminence of the laws of the Republic. We regret the position taken by our colleagues in the Republican Group. Madam rapporteur, you have not failed to state in a recent interview that "the Constitution can be revised as a result of changes in society". For his part, General de Gaulle, in the speech of Bayeux of 16 June 1946, stated on the contrary that "it is necessary that our democratic institutions compensate for the effects of our perpetual effervescence by themselves". Paying tribute to the tremendous institutional legacy we owe him in this three-year anniversary year, we are committed to that. Similarly, we can only underline the tremendous unconscious enthusiasm that drives you, which leads you to claim to carry a message of national unity, as you indicated in committee, while recognizing that this was only a symbolic act. It is revealing, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, that you are now content to stir up symbols while our compatriots expect us to know how to work together and on the bottom. As you will understand, the La République en marche group will not vote for your proposed constitutional law, whose sole aim is to feed your agenda,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u294	Ridiculous! And it's not very respectful! On a subject of this importance...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u295	...as pointed out in the Senate Patrick Kanner, president of the Socialist, Ecologist and Republican group. Contrary to you, we do not believe that supplementing article 1 of the Constitution with the paragraph "no individual or group can rely on its origin or religion to exonerate itself from the observance of the common rule" will suffice to reform our institutions. I would add that the notion of a "common rule", which you formulate in the singular, would at least deserve to be developed, if not clarified. Similarly, you would like to make it clear in article 4 of the Constitution, on the role of political parties and groups, that these parties and groups must respect the principle of secularism, whereas any infringement of this principle is already punishable, which is demonstrated by the decisions taken in recent weeks by the Minister of the Interior. Several of you have noted, ladies and gentlemen, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council shows that this bill is unnecessary and inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u296	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u297	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Republic on the move will not be able to agree to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u298	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u299	Sad echo to what is going on in our country, is submitted to the examination of our assembly a text that aims to guarantee the pre-eminence of the laws of the Republic. Beyond the need to recall it, to write it, we are actually debating the meaning we want to give our country, our history, our civilization, our future. We must stand together to fight against the communalism and seditions which it invokes, against the ills which the Republic suffers and which far too much does not want to see. This fight targets not separatism, but hate preachers and those who want to subdue France. No, Salafism will never be peaceful; No, fundamentalism will never be republican. With the support of political and intellectual accomplices, ready to justify who stoning, who polygamy, these permanent violations of our values, our rules, our customs and customs, our traditions, our laws are developing on the infinite field of your failures: unemployment, poverty, armament of the suburbs, communalism, underground economy, disappearance of public services, complicit diplomacy, criminal laxism, uncontrolled migration policy, multiple renunciations, perpetual excuses. For thirty years, these failures have transformed France. Here, since 1905, the law has protected the most fundamental freedoms: to believe, to think, to criticize, to caricature, to laugh, to blaspheme. The law guarantees respect for faith as long as faith does not want to overthrow the law. It is because we have erected this pillar of secularism that we are hated by Islamist fundamentalists and that we must, as we do this morning, debate to protect ourselves, to protect ourselves so as not to bend, not to bend, not to disappear. "Look at this people, you will not see them again," wrote Péguy. This collective protection built by the French and for the French does not degrade the moral integrity of any. By voting on this constitutional bill, we will call for the action and protection of our compatriots. By refusing it, you'll keep the idea that there's something negotiable. For it is in the national territory that we risk losing the battle against Islamism, when 74 per cent of Muslims under the age of 25 consider that faith must prevail over the laws. In the face of these deadly abuses, the Government must be courageous at least one day, at least one hour, at least one Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u300	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u301	The state does not have to be ashamed of its republican model, of its conception of secularism. Of course, this proposal remains far removed from a genuine constitutional review, but it does not distort the Constitution, on the contrary. The reticences that you express, through dogmatism, ideology, sectarianism, naivety or cowardice – I let you choose – send a signal that the enemies of France, France whose identity existed long before the Republic, will receive five out of five. Of course, the French expect acts rather than laws, burning hearts rather than lukewarm souls. But, by sheltering yourself behind a few techno reasons to refuse to vote on this proposal, you demonstrate how much you let the insignificant threaten the essential, in the words of René Char. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] At the time of the debate on constitutional reform buried in the beautiful Benalla case, we proposed exactly the same paragraph, to the very end, in a proposed constitutional law. I am sure that this will have largely inspired our colleague from the Republican Group. We will not ask, Madam rapporteur, dear Annie Genevard, for copyright: when it comes to France, we must be magnanimous, and even generous. On the contrary, I invite you to continue to inspire yourself from Marine Le Pen. Colleagues, as you have understood, we will be voting on this constitutional bill, because there is no point in trying or declaring the best intentions if we do not take advantage of the opportunities to make them live. Living is also what Samuel, Vincent, Simone, Nadine and all the others asked for. "We will win because we are the deadst," wrote Philippe Muray. Let us benefit, ladies and gentlemen, from the fact that we are alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u302	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u303	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Whatever your opinion about the provisions of this constitutional bill, Mr.Setting of Seals, allow me in the preamble to regret that you have used the term "wrong" to describe the wording proposed by our honourable senators, but everyone knows the seriousness of it. I'm coming to the bottom. In your remarks, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have asked yourself at length about the advisability of amending the Constitution, in particular the adage that the law should be touched only with a trembling hand. To answer you and some colleagues, I repeat a word from Royer-Collard: "Constitutions are not tents for sleep. It may be useful to amend the Constitution, as shown by the two examples I will give you. The Constitutional Act of 8 July 1999, which made it possible to establish parity, reinforced the equality between women and men recognized in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u304	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u305	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u306	The Constitution Act of 1 March 2005 endorsed the Constitution with a Charter of the Environment guaranteeing "the right to live in a balanced and healthy environment", which was only recognized by the Barnier Act of 1995.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u307	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u308	The amendment of the Constitution therefore makes sense, Mr Questel: the past has demonstrated this. [["Oh, no! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ciotti, you rightly recalled the nature of this constitutional bill in relation to the Government bill. I wish to reiterate here very solemnly that our approach is not false against this one. Some rather negligent minds have seen it as a political opportunity response. I would remind you, colleagues, that this process was initiated by the Senate last February, long before the majority announced its own bill. Far from opposing, the two initiatives complement each other. Be aware of the fact that the constitutional amendment that we propose would be helpful to you: it will legally strengthen your own approach. Mrs Vichnievsky, I come back to the notion of a "common rule". While this has been included in constitutional jurisprudence since 2004, we wish to increase its scope so that it also applies to the private sector. Today, companies and associations are insufficiently protected against the religious enterrism to which they are subjected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u309	Yes, and that's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u310	The representative of the Ministry of the Interior himself acknowledged this during the hearings I conducted. Are we paying attention to public employers, and would we be indifferent to private employers? El Khomri law is not enough to protect them. The constitutional provision we propose would strengthen the legislative arsenal; It would give entrepreneurs and community leaders something to arm themselves against this religious enterrism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] When the interior minister received the Republican leaders – I represented Damien Abad, president of our group, alongside Christian Jacob, president of the party – I asked him how the business world would be protected. He replied: This is not the subject of this law. This must be the subject of this law, because entrepreneurs and community leaders are faced with a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u311	Yes, a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u312	Ms. Untermaier, we had an interesting private discussion on the issue of multiculturalism, but you have almost disputed here the fact that we are raising this issue. That is a fundamental point. Ladies and gentlemen, we are so polarized on the question of secularism, rightly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u313	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u314	...that you may have escaped that section 1 of our proposed constitutional law also refers to the question of origin: "No individual or group can rely on its origin or religion to exonerate itself from the observance of the common rule. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u315	Ah! Tell that to the CRIF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u316	This really touches at the heart of our conception of French society. In our country for a long time prevailed the ideology according to which, basically, all cultures can coexist, the main thing being to organize this coexistence harmoniously. I want to say here very clearly that this multiculturalist concept is not that of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u317	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u318	This is not our understanding of what a nation is. It must be said clearly because for a long time, we have not been able to say it, we have not been able to identify the extent to which this logic was destructive of a certain conception of French unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u319	That's good! You've changed a lot! This is the position of the Paris Commune!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u320	The countries that have opted for this multiculturalist logic, like the Anglo-Saxon countries or the countries of Northern Europe, are now returning. They had not understood how much it was a dislocation factor of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u321	You've been told a century and a half!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u322	That was the case in your own political family, Mrs. Untermaier. I still remember the words spoken by Henri Weber one day when I was debating with him on a television set. He then made the following statement, which I found to be both formidable of honesty and astounding, as this denial inspired the entire ideology of the left for decades:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u323	No, right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u324	...the great error of the left, its great oblivion, is the impregnation of the nations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u325	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u326	On that day, he had the honesty to recognize what founded your ideology, which still founded it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u327	You're mixing everything! You never read Jaurès!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u328	Put your mask back on, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u329	...and the salutary evolution that should be initiated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u330	Read Jaures! Read Robespierre!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u331	I come back to the question of secularism – I turn again to you, Mrs Untermaier, because you have raised several fundamental questions, including this one, in an intervention that was no longer long than that of others. According to many of you, basically everything is already in the Constitution, and there is no need to go back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u332	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u333	That was the essence of your argument, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. [[Smile]] My remarks will first seem to give you reason, ladies and gentlemen, but I will then refute your point of view – as is the case with oratory art. Article 1 of the Constitution states: "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. Article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen defines freedom of opinion as follows: "No one shall be disturbed for his or her views, even religious..." Paragraph 13 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution provides that the State shall organize "free and secular public education". However, and this is the point on which I would like to stress, contrary to other principles defined by constitutional texts or by case law, such as freedom or equality, the principle of secularism is not precisely defined. In my presentation of the bill, I cited very knowledgeable lawyers with whom I worked, such as Jean-Éric Schoettl or Anne Levade, and I would now like to quote Mr. Mélin-Sucramanian's analysis. With regard to secularism, he argued that two conceptions could be opposed. The first is that of secularism, which is limited to a mere neutrality of the State vis-à-vis religions. I understand, Mrs Untermaier, that this is your conception – perhaps yours too, Mr.President Mélenchon. The second is that of secularism allowing the realization of republican universalism. This indetermination of the principle of secularism is a problem today, and the proposed constitutional law that we invite you to vote on would clarify its scope, recognizing that the common rule applies to all, regardless of their religion or origin. It is not enough to quote the word "secularity" to guarantee it: it is also necessary to clarify the content and the scope of it. Mr Houbron, I think it is useful to move from case law to fundamental law; I have referred to this in my remarks and I do not go back to it any more. Mr Naegelen, I fully agree with your analysis. Yes, we have to say what we are, that is, to refuse multiculturalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u334	It wasn't in his intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u335	Mr Acquaviva, your speech is obviously very impregnated with the vigour of your Corsican origins, which I know well and which I salute, but I would like to dispel a misunderstanding. The problem is not the common rule, but the fact of exonerating itself from it. If the common rule recognizes Corsican particularities – it does so and we do not wish to call them into question – the problem would lie in exempting itself from it on the grounds of its religion or origin. Mr Mélenchon, no, it is not Islam that is targeted in this constitutional bill, but Islamism. With the skill that characterizes you, you invite us not to give the point to the enemy, that is to say to those whom you agree they must be prevented from harming. For me, this formula is an oratory pirouette. No, Mr Mélenchon, we do not want a religious war in France and we do not confuse Muslims with political and radical Islamism. Finally, Mr Questel, you say that the Constitution must be sacramentalized. I believe I have demonstrated that the grantor was sometimes right to change it. Would you, by any chance, have any regret that the death penalty or equality between women and men had been included in it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u336	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u337	You therefore admit that, when the urgency so requires, when the importance of the danger imposes it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u338	When the essentials are at stake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u339	... when the essentials are at stake, revise the Constitution. These are the fairly fundamental legal issues on which I wanted to return following the general discussion. Please forgive me if I've been a little long;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u340	It was essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u341	It's absolutely necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u342	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u343	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u344	First of all, I would like to tell you how rich the general discussion has been. The subject is of such gravity that no one will be able to suspect anyone, either in one camp or in the other, to become a little politician. That's my certainty and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u345	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u346	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, at the end of the general discussion, the amendment you are proposing still seems to me unnecessary and redundant. I beg you to forgive me, the rapporteur, for using the word "bad" to describe the drafting of the bill. You will nevertheless concede to me that there is a gradation between the word "bad" and the expression "written with the feet". As far as I'm concerned, I didn't use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u347	We can be smart with his feet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u348	Mr Ciotti, I share your observation – and many of us here share it – that separatism is everywhere. It is in schools, universities, hospitals, sports facilities – you probably thought of the pool – We all agree, or almost agree, on this terrible fact. And I would like to tell you, Madam rapporteur, that my door is open for us to talk about separatism in private enterprise. Rather than this text, which seems redundant and unnecessary to me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u349	You've already said that. Who's redundant?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u350	[["Ah! on the benches of the LR group]] ...I refer you to the bill that we are about to table on this subject and that you will obviously be invited to enrich. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With this in mind, several examples that some have mentioned in our debates today have asked me. The freedom of conscience of the Catholic doctor who refuses to perform abortion is a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u351	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u352	[[MM. Julien Aubert and Sébastien Chenu exclaimed]] The fate of our Christian democratic friends is also a real problem. But, I'm sorry to say, you're just flying over them in your text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u353	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u354	I don't think I interrupted Mrs. Genevard. I'm almost done. What I also wanted to tell you, Mr Ciotti, is that the attacks by Islamists did not begin in 2012, but rather in 1994 or 1995. And with this bill, at once, at one time, we discover that the Constitution must be amended! My analysis of seals and former jurists is that this text does nothing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on several benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] On the other hand, the one we are going to submit to you aims to combat separatism in all its aspects, as well as at school, university, hospital, or sport. We will discuss these issues. And since I have not taken away the idea of working with you on this point, Madam rapporteur, we can also raise the issue of separatism in private enterprise. It is on the occasion of the examination of this bill that you will be able, in a concrete way, to help our country separate from separatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u355	I now call the articles of the proposed constitutional law in the text that was originally before the House, since the committee did not adopt the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u356	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, in support of Amendment No 2, as amended, with an additional Rule before Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u357	I'm going to slightly change what I was planning to tell you. Indeed, I cannot hide from you the happiness I feel in seeing Members of the right-wing benches and a few others rush to defend secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u358	Because you don't do it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u359	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Still! It's our victory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u360	This is the victory of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u361	It took us a century and a half to get you to accept the decisions of the revolution of 1789. It took us 200 years to get you to admit those from the Commune of Paris which, for the first time, established the secularism of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u362	Jean-Luc Mélenchon, it's Louise Michel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u363	Colleagues, let's listen to Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u364	You're showing an enthusiastic zeal that I want to eat. You make mistakes out of excess discovery. Mr Ciotti, you are a man who is an estimated man, and I blame you for taking up a completely reprehensible formula. "No freedom for the enemies of freedom," you say, but it's a very bad idea! During the great revolution, our predecessors tried and it is abominable! As for "state religion", it is of no use and causes only wars of religion. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] When it comes to multiculturalism, words make sense, Mrs. Genevard! Multiculturalism is impossible with religions. He will not have escaped you, perhaps by thinking of yours, that for any religion, practice another is a heresy, something reprehensible that leads straight to hell.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u365	Go back to the catechism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u366	As a result, multiculturalism has nothing to do with religions. Multiculturalism means admitting that all societies are crossed and worked by different cultures. Attests to the fact that the French have as their favorite dishes couscous and pizza that they have not invented,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u367	It's not up to the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u368	...or that many of us wear slippers at their homes. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, all this is excessive. You're short of fingering! Stop yelling, it's no use. I don't hear what you're saying, just a hustle and bustle that keeps me from talking. When you say that you want to enforce the Constitution by common rules,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u369	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u370	... you forget that you begin – as the keeper of the seals has just recalled – by condemning doctors who refuse to practice IVG, thus refusing the happiness of law enforcement to their fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u372	I am a little embarrassed, Mr President Mélenchon, because I was going to respond to your amendment, but you did not defend it. I will give him an unfavorable opinion, but I would like to go back to your comments on the physician's conscience clause, which Mr.Secretariat also excited to show how inappropriate our bill was. The existing law recognizes a clause of conscience and there is no question of returning to that point. (Applause from several benches of the LR group. – Mr Sébastien Chenu also applauds.) Our aim is not to question the validity of the common rule, but not to allow ourselves to be exempted from it on the grounds of religion and origin. Don't make any misconceptions! Don't make us say what we're not saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u373	They're specialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u374	It's too easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u375	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u376	[[Smiles and applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President Mélenchon, first of all I would like to congratulate you: you are not your age! You're talking about fighting, like those of the Commune, that you're making your own. [["Congratulation! » and applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] You will forgive me for mentioning your amendment; You didn't do it at all. It is intended to add to article 1 of the Constitution that the Republic respects non-beliefs. If you had supported it, I would naturally have replied that Article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen provides that "no one shall be disturbed for his opinions, even religious", so that the non-believer is, like the believer, protected. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u377	Withdraw your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u378	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u379	You affirm, Mr. Mélenchon, that secularism would have been born with the Commune. It is true that the Commune of Paris, with its decree, sought to advance the idea of secularism by enshrining freedom of conscience. That being said, and that is certainly what differentiates us and you, the method of advancing freedoms and advancing the Republic raises the question. The way in which the Commune wanted to apply secularism is certainly quite revealing of how you operate. Things took place with rifles, without consultation and with declarations of intent that did not succeed. This is also the difference with Aristide Briand's 1905 text, which I believe is one of the most beautiful in the history of the Republic with the 1901 law on freedom of association.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u380	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u381	[[Denis Masséglia applauds]] This has taken place in concert and in a national consensus. This is probably where our differences lie. We try to move things forward by involving the French, while you, most often, oppose each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u382	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u383	Put your mask back on, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u384	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I am even older than you think, because I also call myself Spartacus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u385	You forget Clovis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u386	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As for the history of the commune, Christian Democrats, I recall how you settled it: with 32000 murders in order. That's how the counter-argument came! Please, let's leave it all aside.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u387	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u388	The history of France is one and indivisible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u389	We don't need your lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u390	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u391	The Church waited until 1920 to recognize the Republic; In 1906, a Pope's bubble condemned universal suffrage. Don't come to give lessons on history! But if you want to look for it at all costs, take Philippe Le Bel, who imposed the law of the kingdom against that of the pope!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u392	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u393	Please, colleagues: learn from history its fingering and its way of moving ideas forward. It was not your blessings that brought the Republic forward, but the tireless struggle of ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u394	Call Tronchet, Portalis, Sieyes, don't forget anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u395	[[Mr. Jérôme Lambert applauds]] And that is why we have made sure – because the minister is right to say that everything is already contained in the Constitution – to bring you to the gallery to hear you say what you are saying and enjoy seeing you capitulate before our principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u396	Layness in Caracas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u397	Colleagues, these are exciting topics and we could spend a lot of time there. That said, out of respect for the day reserved for the agenda of which several other texts are inscribed, I shall remain there after these two statements. We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u398	It'll change, you'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u399	On Article 1e r and Article 2, I am seized by the Group of the Republicans of applications for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u400	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u401	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you are right to say – perhaps because you are the keeper of the seals – that the Constitution must be amended with great caution. We have this caution, but we do not apply it in this case, because the proposed amendment is useful. I am also surprised by your comments about texts that would be useless, blurred, approximate, poorly written: is this the right time for the Government to say that of a text? I'm not sure. There's only one France. France is our common rule and no one has the right to break its uniqueness. Everyone on these benches will agree with this idea. As Annie Genevard said very well, the 1958 Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Council have deepened and consolidated this concept, but this is not enough. The evolution of our society and the centrifugal tendencies that France is experiencing today require clarification and a better definition of secularism, which is not a concept but a fundamental rule of common life in our Republic. These clarifications have their place in the Constitution; school principals, sports associations, public services and business leaders are constantly asking them to know how to organize their own services within the framework of the common rules of the Republic. We need to clarify and clarify things, otherwise we may have to endure a long-term debate and power relations that will lead to the weakening of our democracy as a result of the radicalization of certain groups – Islamists, for example. We must ensure that our view of public life is above the rules that communities want to impose. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You are putting forward the Government's next bill on separatism, but it is not at the right level, which is the constitutional level. Let us do things in order: the constitutional level must be used first to propose a definition of secularism, because the law simply allows this principle to be applied. As the rapporteur, Annie Genevard, said, these texts are complementary. This is the text we are proposing with the Senate; It should be obvious. Don't put back to tomorrow what you can do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u402	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u403	I will be quick, because a lot has already been said, but I insist on the teaching of history. The text of 1905 has been very laborious to make admit, and do not come to re-enact all of you, because the various benches of the House have not reacted in the same way to each of its aspects. On many points, the exaggerations of both sides were beaten, for the path we sought was one that would bring to an end the endless wars of religion, open or larval, which our country has experienced. You seem to underestimate what they have weighed since the beginning, the massacres they have caused and the divisions they have dug between the French. Let us not start again, at a time when we have a historic duty to finish the rallying stage of the French people that began in the last fifty years, to abandon ourselves to excesses and challenges that only harm the unity of the country! We can succeed quietly, by applying the Constitution, which I condemn, and its human rights bloc, which I approve, with the legal methods that are already in the law. Let us not try to do more, because we would go to disasters, that is to say to a real separatism, when one part of the population feels that it is rejected by the other. That is what we must avoid at all costs. We must make France of all wood to each generation, it is the duty of all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u404	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u405	Despite the health, economic and social crisis in our country, the Republican Group wanted to use its parliamentary niche to amend the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u406	We have just considered a proposal for a health resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u407	...what we understand given the current stakes. It is precisely thanks to the stability of our Constitution and our representative political system that we can discuss this issue today. I would like to return to the essential point of Article 1 of the proposed constitutional law, which provides for the prohibition of any person from exempting himself or herself, in the name of his or her religion or origin, from the observance of the common rule. I am afraid that this wording will cause a problem: indeed, and even if you say that the Constitutional Council has made a number of precedents, what is the common rule? For me, it is defined by human rights, the Constitution and all the laws of the Republic, to which no citizen can derogate. [[Mr. Mustapha Laabid applauds. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We all want to ensure public order; However, the proposed amendment is a disproportionate violation of freedom of conscience and challenges well-established legislation by making it unconstitutional. Why want to touch the Constitution, the pillar of the Republic, for principles already enshrined in our law? In addition to the constitutional and historical principles that the Republican Group seems to have completely forgotten, I would remind you that the history of our country is much more complex than a two-article constitutional bill. Does your Jacobine proposal take into consideration the concordat in Alsace-Moselle and Guyana?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u408	Who are you to talk like that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u409	A little modesty, that would be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u410	Please, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is free to speak in the Chamber. Let's keep the debate going. I ask you to let the speaker finish his remarks; You will be able to reply later when the amendments are discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u411	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] On the other hand, does the proposal not pose a legal risk in certain overseas territories? Have you had him checked by constitutionalists? It is the specificities of our territories that make our country's cultural wealth. A revision of the Constitution is delicate. Addressing fragile balances at the highest level of our common rules must be done with the utmost vigilance, which is clearly not the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u412	If we do not regain calm, I shall suspend the meeting, which will penalise our work. The reserved days are important, they allow the expression of a political group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u413	He's provoking us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u414	Let us listen to the speakers and continue our discussions. Mr Mendes, finish your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u415	Let him stop provoking us, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u416	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I said that any amendment to the Constitution must be made with the utmost vigilance. I therefore call on my colleagues, the Republicans, to propose more concrete measures in accordance with the Constitution. The application of republican principles requires realistic measures on a daily basis, which is at stake in the bill that preserves the republican principles that will be presented shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u417	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u418	The major advantage of the revision proposed in this constitutional bill is that it will then have to be approved by referendum. However, I am convinced that the question of separatism – that was the term originally used by the Government – or, more precisely, of communautarianism, or, more explicitly, of Islamism, must be the subject of a debate between the French – a real debate that says things, without hurting, but without hiding either. "You have to start by naming things and overcoming the binary pseudo-moral confrontations," says Hubert Védrine, and he's right. It is more than time to consult the French on what they want for their homeland, for their country; French sovereigns to organize their security, their protection, and desirous of deciding on the burning issues of Islamism, terrorism and immigration. For several years now, we have witnessed an unprecedented rise in communalism and Islamism in France. Two figures illustrate the phenomenon: 400 incidents – as the Ministry of National Education calls them – were recorded during the minute of silence in tribute to the murdered professor Samuel Paty, including 150 cases of apology of terrorism. Equally worrying is the fact – many of us have recalled – that 74% of French Muslims under the age of 25 claim to place Islam before the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u419	Again! That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u420	How can we accept that today in France, some people are threatened with death and that they need police protection for their ideas? The French State must act to neutralize this threat instead of being obliged to protect those who are the subject of it. To do this, everyone must be able to express themselves. Finally, it will be an opportunity for the Muslim French – and not the Muslims of France, Mr Mélenchon – to say unambiguously what they think of the rise of communalism, because to denounce communalism and Islamism is to defend secularism. That is the first virtue of this bill, and the reason why I will vote for it, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u421	The opposite would have surprised us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u422	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u423	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It amends the text on the sidelines by taking up section 3 of the proposed constitutional law that Marine Le Pen had tabled in April 2018. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our colleagues, the Republicans, on acknowledging the seriousness of our proposals; We are sensitive to it. Article 1 inserts a new paragraph in the Constitution which expressly prohibits communalism and draws the consequences: "No individual or group may avail itself of its origin or religion in order to exempt itself from the observance of the common rule. This principle should be self-evident; Unfortunately, in view of the worrying developments in society, it must now be devoted to the constitutional level. The amendment adds an element to be engraved in the marble, namely the impossibility of resorting to positive discrimination, this policy totally contrary to our cultural and legal tradition, which is the hormone of growth of communalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u425	[[Mr. Sébastien Chenu looks like a rower]] I can only be against your amendment for a number of reasons. First of all, he is satisfied with the constitutional bill we are considering, which aims to prevent religious or identity claims from undermining the common rule. Secondly, the amendment goes too far in its drafting, as it would call into question exceptions provided by law which are compatible with the principle of equality between citizens, either because they are based on objectively different situations or because they are in the public interest. It would be, for example – I am sure that this is not your intention, Mr Chenu, stop rowing – to question the concordatary regimes of Alsace-Moselle and Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u426	We keep it like the plum of our eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u427	I would like to take this opportunity to remove an ambiguity with Mr Mendes, who is Mosellan and who has become unnecessarily angry, because the proposed constitutional law does not in any way call into question the exception of the concordatory regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u428	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u429	I repeat: the problem is not the common rule, which may provide for exceptions, but the fact of exonerating itself from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u430	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u431	This amendment is bold, and that is the least we can say. I said earlier that the gravity of the subject prevented us from making small politicians, but there is always an exception that confirms the rule. You will recall that the Republic does not recognize any community, which means absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u432	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u433	You want no one to exonerate themselves from the common rule by invoking their origin or religion, and finally – why not? luck sometimes smiles at the daring – that no discrimination based on origin or religion can be introduced by law. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To all this, the Government replied that it was pointless to recall that there was only one community in France, the national community, since the Constitution already recognized only the French people. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Secondly, prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of origin or religion is only one way to recall the principle of equality, a constitutional principle already enshrined in article 1 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, but also in article 1 of our Constitution. The Constitution is not amended to make it say what it already says. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u434	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u435	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 217 Number of votes cast 217 Absolute majority 109 For adoption 81 Against 136
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u436	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u437	This amendment reiterates the well-known principle that the Republic does not recognize, salaried or subsidize any worship – which, in fact, is obviously not true, but will be firmly applied when the time comes. We add that this will have to apply throughout the territory, which means that the concordat, which is the result of the German occupation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u438	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u439	... the concordat, inherited from Napoleon I and maintained after the German occupation, must be abrogated, especially since it recognizes only part of the religions practised in Alsace-Moselle – and I am speaking here of the concordat and not of the social law in force in the region, which I wish to see extended to the whole of France. I'm glad, though, that you're giving up your cornets. Mr Ciotti, you came after others to tell us that the identity of France was the Republic, and the Republic was secularism. Bravo! So you are giving up the idea of incorporating Christian tradition into the Constitution, as you were proposing with fifteen other members of your group. Just as you renounce, for my greatest happiness, the idea defended by your ally, the Christian Democratic Party, that France is the eldest daughter of the Church. That being said, I repeat: the phrase "No freedom for the enemies of freedom" is very dangerous and should not be accepted. As for you on the far right, it is a joy to see that you are taking your distance from Mr Zemmour and Mrs Maréchal - Le Pen, for which the problem is not secularism, nor even the Republic, but France! By distinguishing France from the Republic and secularism, it pushes the plug much further than some here, because we all have in common a common definition of the homeland, the only legal community founded on the Republic and secularism, against which we do not conspire!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u440	Thank you, and good-bye!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u441	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u442	I shall give an opinion against this amendment, Mr Mélenchon. You see as a paradox the fact of asserting the principle of secularism while recognizing the concordat regime. I believe, on the contrary, that this is the foundation of our Republic, which is not made up of a single block, of a single bill, but is the result of a rich, sometimes painful history in which differences of regime are anchored according to the places of the territory. I would point out that the concordatory regime predates the 1905 law, and that the Constitutional Council, in its decision of 21 February 2013, did not revert to this exception, a position which I agree with.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u443	That's the opposite of what your article 1 says, dear lady!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u444	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u445	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u446	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment seeks first of all to include in the Constitution the definition of secularism set out in article 2 of the 1905 Act. From this point of view, he is already satisfied – on this point I refer you to Article 1 of the Constitution and to the decisions of the 2013 Constitutional Council. He then intends to return to the particular situation of Alsace-Moselle. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the concordatory regime is well before the 1905 Act,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u447	Yes, he's from Napoleon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u448	... and neither the constituent of 1946 nor the constituent of 1958 intended to call into question a balance to which the Government is particularly attached – in this regard you could have been interested in the Guyana regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u449	I did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u450	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u451	I strongly oppose this amendment. Mr Mélenchon, secularism with Alsatian works very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u452	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u453	In the event of a serious event such as the last attack in Strasbourg, the highest religious, Catholic, Protestant, Jewish and Muslim leaders can immediately agree to the publication of a joint communiqué condemning the attacks. During the inaugurations of public buildings, it is also common for a religious official to participate in the event...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u454	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u455	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ... just as it is common for elected representatives to speak in a church during religious ceremonies. That is how we function.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u456	That's Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u457	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u458	I would like to correct a mistake: the concordat is not derived from German law, it is an inheritance of Napoleonic law that dates back to 1802.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u459	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u460	In 1919, consulted following the Treaty of Versailles, the population of Alsace-Moselle affirmed its attachment to the French Republic as well as to certain specifics of its territory, heritages of a tumultuous history crossed by many wars. Moreover, we focus on the concordat d'Alsace-Moselle, but there is also a concordat in French Guiana, we must not forget it. In any case, the concordat in our region opens up a space for dialogue and consultation between religious communities and the elected representatives of the Republic. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I also recall that the concordat allowed the Jewish community, under Napoleon, to integrate into the Republic, by deciding on the questions asked to it, questions which, in many respects, remain relevant: are the French brothers or foreigners? In both cases, what is the relationship between religion and non-Jewish French? The answers to these and other questions have thus helped to structure relations with the State, and I therefore strongly oppose this legitimate attack on what the Constitutional Council recognized in 2013 as a republican tradition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u461	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u462	We are in deep disagreement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u463	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u464	...but I recognize your consistency; admit mine. Whatever the previous discussions, I am in favour of the Law on Secularity of 1905 being applied throughout the national territory. You claim that the concordat grants the same rights to all religions: this is not true, because a religion is kept out of the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u465	Stop talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u466	You say you are ready for dialogue, or even for some cases, to apply a law other than secular law: it is exactly the opposite of what you say the rest of the time...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u467	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u468	... and what the proposed constitutional law of the Republicans Group proposes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u469	We're not here to serve you as a stand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u470	It is the day of the group The Republicans, not of France unsuspected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u471	Yes, secular law must apply everywhere. I see you embarrassed, and this is the first time that I have heard the argument that it would be thanks to the concordat that the Jews of France were able to organize themselves: it seems to me that the persecutions to which they were subjected exempted them from having to organize themselves differently than on the mode of resistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u472	This has nothing to do with the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u473	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u474	[[Exclaims and desk taps on the benches of the LR group]] No, I am not a supporter of Napoleon's concordat and if it was maintained, it was that the Germans, who had invaded us, had maintained its principle and application: do not change history! [["Calm down! » on the benches of the LR group]] To remove any ambiguity, I conclude by telling you that I do not doubt for a moment the republican sentiments of the Alsatians, the Mosellans and their clergy, whatever they may be, but the law is the law, lasted lex, sed lex. It applies to everyone, to you and to others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u475	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u476	This amendment solemnly affirms that the Constitution is the supreme norm of the French legal order. As a result, public authorities and all jurisdictions are required to declare invalid or to leave unapplied, as the case may be, any standard that is contrary to it, whether legislative or regulatory. The affirmation of this principle, which should be self-evident, is aimed at countering an increasingly frequent drift in our law and jurisprudence, which tends to interpret constitutional principles only in the light of our international commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u478	My opinion will be unfavourable for several reasons. First, the wording you are proposing is inoperative: it is not useful to say that an unconstitutional provision does not apply, fortunately. On the other hand, you are referring to a subject which is of great importance and to which the group The Republicans are particularly vigilant, namely the influence that certain courts, particularly European ones, can have on our law. In the case of the El Khomri law and the conciliation between the interests of the company and the application of the law on the one hand, and respect for religious freedom on the other, the European Court will instead tend to favour respect for individual freedom and religious freedom. Our proposal for a constitutional law therefore aims – and I am replying to Mrs Vichnievsky here – to weigh this arbitration between individual rights and the general interest, in order to prevent European decisions from violating our national law, which often arouses a great deal of emotion. It is about respect for constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u479	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u480	It is, of course, the Constitutional Council that examines the conformity of laws with the Constitution. We have just celebrated the ten years of the priority issue of constitutionality. For other internal standards, administrative and judicial judges are responsible for ensuring compliance with the Constitution. For international and European law, article 55 of the Constitution provides that international treaties and agreements have a higher value than the law. That is why there is a check on the compliance of the treaties with the Constitution at the time of their ratification. Secondly, Article 88-1 of the Constitution recognizes the place of European Union law in our legal order. This hierarchy does not in any way call into question the place of the Constitution, as the Council of State, in its Sarran and Levacher judgment, and the Court of Cassation, in its Fraisse judgment, has clearly held. Therefore, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u481	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u482	Mr President, I should like to turn a blind eye to our Rules of Procedure, because I would like to shed some light on Amendment No 1 by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, concerning the application of the principle of secularism throughout the national territory. Can we consider that Guyana is still part of the national territory when the principle of secularism does not apply to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u483	Excellent reminder!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u484	It has been applied since 1911 in Martinique, Guadeloupe and Réunion, but it has never been implemented in Guyana. So far, it is the communities that have paid the priests. In 2017, the territorial community of Guyana raised a priority question of constitutionality on this subject. The Constitutional Council has used subtle tricks to reject any recognition of an infringement of fundamental freedoms and a breach of access to the law for our citizens. The most disturbing argument was of a financial nature, since the Council stated that the expenses incurred by the priests' remuneration were not substantial, since they amounted to EUR 1 million. In Guyana, there are needs that we cannot afford, especially in schools and high schools. We have tried to put an end to this serious breach of the principle of secularism, as our claim has not so far been successful. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] There is a real problem here. Either Guyana is part of the Republic and the principle of secularism must apply to it as in the rest of the country, or Guyana is no longer part of the Republic and questions have to be asked. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] That's the light I wanted to give to the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u485	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u486	I am elected to Moselle and I would like to make it clear that secularism applies even in the departments subject to the concordat regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u487	Especially in these!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u488	The Constitutional Council has repeatedly recalled this, for example in 2013, in response to a priority question of constitutionality, where it found that local law in Alsace-Moselle was in conformity with the Constitution, considering that the proclamation of the secular character of the Republic in the Constitution did not mean that the provisions applicable in certain parts of the territory of the Republic were called into question when the Constitution entered into force. The situation is clear, clear and precise: the concordat regime does not ignore secularism, the latter being a valid principle throughout the Republic, including overseas and in the departments where the concordat regime applies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u489	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u490	For nearly ten years an enemy has declared us a war of conquest. This enemy is Islamism. It seeks to destroy all that we are and all that our predecessors have built over the years in the Chamber of the National Assembly: freedom, equality and a certain idea of our civilization. We must fight this enemy with the weapons of law and with the rearmament of the nation. Yes, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we must enshrine in the Constitution that no political party can have as a plan to submit the Republic to a law other than its own. Yes, we must affirm in the text of the Constitution that political parties must respect the principle of secularism. By doing this, we would not prevent any movement from referring to a philosophical or religious tradition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u491	What does that mean, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u492	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, we would be able to ban political parties whose plans are to destroy what we are. We must affirm our will not to submit to political Islam, we must re-arm the nation-state and we should do so in the national union and in the unity of all democratic and republican forces. This fight is a great fight, which should bring us together. What place more beautiful than the Constitution of the Republic to solemnly reaffirm this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u493	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u494	I can't hide how delighted I am with what I just heard from Mr. Larrivé's mouth. I am sure that he will tell Civitas and that the voters of this movement will be sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u495	Your pathological anti-Catholicism again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u496	The law clearly states in the Code of Internal Security that it is prohibited to give in to provocation, discrimination, hatred or violence against a person and to propagate ideas or theories to justify or encourage such discrimination. Therefore, we are perfectly equipped. The problem is law enforcement. I'm sure everyone wants to apply it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u497	You didn't read them, the laws!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u498	... the discussion only on how to do it. For my part, I believe in internal intelligence and infiltration to get rid of violent and murderous groups like Islamist jihadists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u499	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u500	We must learn from the way in which other countries have fought this particular form of terrorist policy, in order to understand clearly what should not be done and what should be done. Overestimation of their role is a total error, as they then feel of importance that justifies their ambitions. It is a question of crushing them with the means of the law: there is no need to add provisions in the Constitution to do so, because the present law is largely sufficient. This morning, I hope that we have finally heard that the entire national representation defends total, complete and resolute secularism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u501	The one you abandoned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u502	...substantial to the idea of the French Republic. This is a very great moment, notwithstanding the nonsense that we want to adopt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u503	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u504	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 215 Number of votes cast 213 Absolute majority 107 For adoption 78 Against 135
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u505	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 2. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u506	Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what your head would be if the President of the Republic were declared an honorary Dalai Lama or an honorary imam of the Cairo mosque. You would no doubt have the same head as me when I learn that the President of the French Republic is first and only honorary canon of the archbasilic Saint-Jean-de-Latran, that is, the parish priest of honour of the pope,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u507	It's just a tribute to history, not anything else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u508	...and that he is co-prince of Andorra with the Bishop of Urgell. This amendment proposes that you end these headings. [[Julien Aubert applauds]] While we're here, let's continue the list! The President of the Republic is also honorary canon of the cathedrals of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne, Saint-Julien du Mans, Saint-Maurice d'Angers, Saint-Jean de Lyon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u509	Exactly, excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u510	Jealous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u511	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ...Saint-Étienne de Cahors, Saint-Étienne de Châlons and churches Saint-Hilaire de Poitiers, Saint-Martin de Tours and Saint-Germain-des-Prés.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u512	Jalousie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u513	[[Same movements]] That's it, shout, dicks, that suits you well! It is not forbidden for bigotes to sit in this Chamber, but in the secular Republic, one and indivisible, the President of the Republic should not bear religious titles. I am sure that you will vote with me on this amendment, because since you do not want it to be an imam of honour, you do not want it to be a canon of honour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u514	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u515	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u516	I recall that article 5 of the Constitution provides that the President of the Republic is the guarantor of the Constitution, which means respecting the principle that our Republic is indivisible, secular, democratic and social. The titles you refer to, Mr. Mélenchon, are honorary titles, as you know. I do not consider that secularism is defended by erasing history. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u517	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u519	To be honorary canon of the cathedrals of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne or...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u520	Excellent cathedral!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u521	[[Smile]] ... of Saint-Julien du Mans does not mean in any way that the President of the Republic is in the process of beatification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u522	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u523	But maybe his seal guard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u524	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the LR group]] I'm telling everyone, even if it might happen. These titles are purely honorary and historical. They go back to Henry IV, who has not left in our memories the chicken in the pot. This is the tribute of a Head of State, the Pope, to another Head of State, the President of the Republic. In these circumstances, I am totally against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u525	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u526	Mr President Mélenchon, Marc Bloch has taught us that being French is to vibrate at the evocation of the beautiful Feast of the Federation, but also to the memory of the Sacre de Reims. We have a history and we are part of a historical continuity. The President of the French Republic, heir to his predecessors, is also part of this historical continuity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In doing so, we naturally do not question any constitutional principle, but we are what we are. And we are not what you are, we believe that the history of France is not done on a clean table. We are not constructivist revolutionaries, we are heirs to our history and we have no intention of apologizing at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u527	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u528	I hope you don't seriously believe that. We are all heirs to our history, that we meditate and integrate into our own person. In history, there are obviously continuitys, for nothing ever comes out of anything, but there are also ruptures, which make as much sense as continuities. In my view, they do even more. The rupture of the great revolution of 1789 made more sense than the past. But if I were to refer to the past, I would turn, rather than to the bigot kings like the so-called Saint Louis who martyred the Jews, to Philip Le Bel, who refused to obey Pope Boniface VIII and who had the last word. It means – I say it to you friendlyly, Minister, for I saw that you smiled despite the mask – that the pope does not make the President of the Canon Republic because he is the head of state of the Vatican – this function gives him authority only over the Swiss guards – but because he is the head of the Catholic Church. It is in this capacity that he appoints the President of the Canon Republic of Honour of his basilica. The President may refuse this title, which only François Mitterrand did. It is good that we say that all this is charming, that it is our history, that we remember it and that Henry IV has changed religion twice to maintain the Salic law in France. But it's all in the past! And modernity, as we learn from the encroachments of religions, is absolute secularism, complete and resolute in all fields. The first ones to bend to it are the most prominent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u529	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u530	Where's Mrs. Le Pen?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u531	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you were talking earlier about the QPC – a priority issue of constitutionality. It tends to make the Constitutional Council the legislature's prescriber. If there is the possibility of a constitutional lite of justice, since the constituent power can always reconsider a decision of the Constitutional Council, there is no legal lite of justice in the rule of law. In other words, Parliament cannot question a decision of the Constitutional Council censoring a legislative provision, even if it wishes to do so by a large majority. Finally, the so-called democracy of rights doctrine prevails over representative democracy. In order to resolve this contradiction, it is therefore desirable to revise the Constitution in such a way that Parliament is authorized, within a certain period of time after the censorship imposed by the Constitutional Council, to maintain in force a legislative provision declared contrary to the Constitution, by a qualified three-fifths majority vote – a standard used for constitutional revisions. This possibility of constitutional contradiction could be open to the people themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u533	You would like to see an obstacle to an unconstitutional decision by the Constitutional Council...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u534	All you have to do is delete the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u535	...by the organisation of a referendum or a vote of Parliament by a three-fifths majority. My opinion is unfavorable. If the Constitutional Council renders a decision of unconstitutionality, the grantor can completely amend the Constitution to remedy it, either by referendum or by convening Congress, as provided for in article 89 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u536	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u537	I am struck – I am weighing my words – by this amendment. If we want to contradict a decision of the Constitutional Council, MP, we are changing the Constitution, it's no more complicated than that! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u538	That was Mrs. Braun-Pivet's opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u539	I almost intervened!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u540	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u541	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] I would like to react to the previous exchanges rather than to Mrs Le Pen's amendment. Today we pay tribute to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, whose formula "the monopoly of the heart" will remain in memory. I would like to recall that here no one has a monopoly on historical truth or on indignation. Monsieur Mélenchon, I see you opining with your head; you who have been stuffing us with historical references for a while, as if we were ignoring them all, remember one of the verses of the International: "He is not a supreme savior. Neither God, nor Caesar, nor tribe. I do not think that your oratory qualities make you the standard bearer of secularism, let alone the holder of historical truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u542	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u543	Adopting the amendment would be nonsense, since the Constitution symbolically remains the starry vault of our democracy and our laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u544	You've got it in your nose!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u545	The law is made in Parliament, in the heart of the Republic, but the Constitution remains the starry vault. If stars and lights are to be added, this should be done in accordance with the law. On the other hand, Mr Mélenchon, if any reference to our history is to be erased, will it also be necessary to remove the rank of knight, officer and commander of the Legion of Honour? We must consider the history of France as a bloc and strengthen its republican dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u546	We shall now proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u547	That is my amendment, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u548	There were two statements, at least one of which was against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u549	As all the articles and amendments containing additional articles have been rejected, the proposed constitutional law is rejected. Mrs Annie Genevard, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u550	To all those who considered this text unnecessary and sloppy, I would say this: there is no good debate without an interesting text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u551	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u552	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We had good debates, on the one hand because the subject deserves it, and on the other because the proposed text was not only relevant, but perfectly interesting and well built on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u553	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mr Damien Abad on the protection of the Armenian people and the Christian communities of Europe and the East (No. 3538).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u554	Mr Guy Teissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u555	In 2001, I was already present in the Chamber to defend with passion the recognition of the Armenian genocide, voted unanimously because it exceeded political divisions. France was the first State in the world to officially recognize genocide. It was one of the best days of my life as a parliamentarian. I was then far from imagining that I would find myself in front of you, nineteen years later, having to denounce a new ethnic cleansing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u556	Anything! That's not ethnic cleansing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u557	On 27 September, an armed conflict broke out in the Caucasian region of Nagorno-Karabagh, where Azerbaijan attacked Armenia; a war of unprecedented violence against the population. This territory is the cradle of Armenian civilization, where the population was traditionally made up mainly of Armenians. This Non-Self-Governing Territory, which has no permanent legal status, is a source of great suffering for these populations and is also a subject of deep geopolitical discord and tension. Let us not forget that the current situation is a legacy of the USSR, since Stalin deliberately detached this territory from Armenia for the benefit of Azerbaijan in 1921. The intensity of this conflict, the use of unconventional weapons particularly deadly by Azerbaijan, as well as the massive and deliberate bombing of Armenian populations in their cities, villages, schools and even churches; All these crimes show that the territorial dispute was in fact a pretext and that we are actually witnessing an attempt at ethnic cleansing of the Armenian population. Azerbaijan's President Aliyev did not hide from it, since he said: "I told you that Armenians would be hunted like dogs; We did it." This sentence today summarizes the sad reality of the tripartite ceasefire signed between Armenia, Azerbaijan and Russia on the night of 9-10 November. An overwhelming ceasefire for the Armenians of Karabagh and for the Republic of Armenia. On the other hand, it is a boon for the Turks, who thus strengthen their influence in the Caucasus. For behind this supposedly territorial conflict is a larger-scale struggle, which we would be wrong to ignore. A struggle led by Turkey by Mr Erdogan, in the name of his expansionist Islamist and neo-Tottoman policy, which poses a threat to our interests, to Western democracies and to peace in many regions. A threat that extends to the heart of Europe, to Cyprus and to Greek territorial waters. After the numerous Turkish aggressions in the Eastern Mediterranean, we knew that Turkey would not stop there! But what have we done, apart from some agreed statements? Yes, the head of state appointed the executioner and denounced the Turkish President's expansionist will. Is it the migratory blackmail that Erdogan's regime has put on us that has driven us to remain so neutral in the conflict? For it was Turkey, a member of NATO – the North Atlantic Treaty Organization – that was the armed arm of the Azeri regime. It was the Syrian military equipment, drones and mercenaries provided by Ankara in Baku that enabled Azerbaijan to make a difference on the ground. It is the Islamist expansionism of Turkey that has served as an ideological matrix for its massive and decisive involvement in the conflict. "The Nagorno-Karabagh once again becomes a country of Islam and resumes its serene place in the shadow of the crescent. These are the words with which President Erdogan justified his commitment alongside Azerbaijan. Let us not hide it: President Erdogan's barely veiled motivation is to weaken the West in depth and to destroy its values. How many violations of the rights of peoples will it be necessary to accept before we react and condemn this regime? How many more provocations will it take before real diplomatic and economic sanctions are taken? How many more assaults will it take before we get out of our passivity? Naïveté guilty that the one that led us not only to lower our guard against Turkey, but, even worse, to generously finance a regime that now provides weapons against a friendly people. A few weeks ago, Senator Christian Cambon revealed that the French Development Agency has lent Turkey €4 billion over the past decade, in particular to prepare for its entry into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, does this really seem acceptable to you? France has resigned to divert attention from the tragedy in Nagorno-Karabagh, thus forgetting its historical responsibility. These multiple renunciations have far-reaching consequences. French diplomacy condemned itself to impotence, leaving Putin the sole master of the game to manage this peace process. Russia played an ambiguous role, consolidating its influence in the region, but leaving the jihadists to settle on its southern flank. While a new strategic partnership with Turkey was born from the Elysée speech of 2019, was it not precisely the time to exercise our influence? Instead, the ceasefire will have dedicated the Westerners' exit from the diplomatic process in the Caucasus. Once again, the use of force at the borders of Europe has led to the break-up of borders that only negotiations should have set. Russia and Turkey preferred to give their interests without paying any attention to international law and our values. These are the fruits of inaction in Haut-Karabagh! After Armenia has been dispossessed of its territory by Azerbaijan, its culture and identity are more threatened than ever. The destruction of places of worship is a risk existing in territories under Azeri control; what remains of the Armenian immemorial heritage risks disappearing forever. But it is not just about the Armenian heritage, it is about the heritage of humanity, like the monastery of Dadivank that we have to preserve at all costs – I went there a few months ago. France hosts the headquarters of UNESCO – United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; It has a particular responsibility. It is essential that she make her voice heard, in order to ensure without delay the protection of an invaluable cultural and religious heritage. We cannot remain neutral and turn the gaze away from the tragedy that affects the Armenians. A secular friendship exists between France and Armenia, never denied and always renewed. It was this great friendship that allowed the refugees of the 1915 genocide to find refuge in our country, which later turned into a true homeland for them. I know this all the more because I grew up in the middle of Armenians in my birthplace in Marseilles. The Armenians are part of our France, we cannot abandon them. If France still wants to be listened to and respected, it must act as we are trying to do here at this moment. It is parliamentary diplomacy that will allow France to no longer have to blush in history. Today, it is the honour of France that is being played in this Chamber. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say to you that we must be aware that we are defending a cause that transcends us, a cause that transcends us: that of justice and human rights. This is not a Community cause, but a universal one. Indeed, only a recognition of the Republic of Artsakh would not only be a strong symbolic position, but would allow the peace process to be revived by introducing a legal discussion on the status of this republic. Such recognition would allow the Republic of Artsakh to leave this area of non-right which deprives it of any form of international support – even humanitarian. Secure and recognized borders will enable security, democracy and development. In the face of today's tragedy, it is urgent that France and the other States members of the United Nations Security Council exercise their full political weight in order to promote international recognition of the right to self-determination of the Republic of Artsakh. But we cannot invoke international procrastinations in order to free ourselves from our responsibility, as representatives of the French nation, gathered here and now. The war being waged by Azerbaijan with the support of Turkey unfortunately leaves us no other choice. I invite you to act in accordance with our commitments and to begin the recognition of Artsakh today. Colleagues, I say to you with great seriousness: on several occasions in history, Armenia has been able to consent to the sacrifice of its children to be with us in all the struggles for freedom; Today it is up to us to show our gratitude to Armenia for its fidelity. Our universalist and humanist tradition of defending human rights, combating discrimination and protecting fundamental freedoms requires that we parliamentarians support the people of Artsakh. So, like our colleagues in the Senate, I invite you to vote massively on this motion for a resolution, beyond the political divides and in the name of the universal values that bring us together. [[Applause on many benches in the LR group, as well as on several benches in the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] General de Gaulle had these words: "There is a 20-century pact between the greatness of France and the freedom of the world. Mr President, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the path is set, we have to choose: we have not been able to avoid war, let us avoid dishonor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u558	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-03-O1103.u559	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the Armenian people and the Christian communities of Europe and the East; Discussion of the proposal for a law to allow the exclusion of foreigners in an irregular situation from the benefit of social pricing in transport; Discussion of the proposed legislation to establish a biometric vital map; Discussion of the proposed law to explain the development of wind energy. The meeting is adjourned.
