ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u1	The next item is the discussion of the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution (No. 2535 corrected, 2588) and of the draft law amending Law No. 2010-838 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution and extending the mandate of the members of the High Authority for the dissemination of works and the protection of rights on the Internet (No. 2536, 2589). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a joint general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u3	We are meeting today to discuss two bills, an organic bill amending the Organic Act of 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution, and an ordinary bill that has a dual purpose: the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution and the extension of the mandate of the members of the High Authority for the dissemination of works and the protection of rights on the Internet – HADOPI. With regard to the implementation of article 13 of the Constitution, the aim is to draw on the consequences of recent reforms carried out by the Government, in order to enable the Parliament to continue to exercise its control over the appointments of the President of the Republic. Article 13 of the Constitution provides that the latter shall appoint to the civil and military posts of the State. The constitutional reform of 2008 supplemented this article by providing for certain appointments to be formally agreed by Parliament, through a mechanism defined in the Organic Law. Thus, the latter provides that the competent committees of the assemblies shall give an opinion which binds the President of the Republic for the appointment to certain jobs and functions, "because of their importance for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". Today, the appointment of the chief executives of fifty-two independent administrative authorities, public institutions or public enterprises is subject to parliamentary scrutiny. In order to confirm their appointment, these officials shall be heard by the committees of the assemblies, which shall then proceed to a vote. If the addition of the negative votes of each committee represents at least three-fifths of the votes cast, the appointment may not take place. It is therefore a real veto for Parliament. We can welcome this right of look, which contributes to the transparency of public life. The important reforms that the Government has undertaken since 2017 must be taken into account in the organic law as well as in the ordinary law: the law of 27 June 2018 for a new railway pact has transformed public industrial and commercial establishments, EPIC, the SNCF group into a unified group composed of the national company SNCF and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, SNCF Voyageurs and SNCF Réseau in order, inter alia, to normalize its governance; the law of 22 May 2019 relating to the growth and activity of companies, known as the PACTE law, provided for the privatisation of La Française des jeux ; the order of 2 October 2019 has reformed the regulation of gambling and extended the tasks of the Authority for the regulation of online games, ARJEL, to games of chance – with the exception of casinos that remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior – and the renamed "National Game Authority". In order to take into account these various reforms, in which you voted, the Government has proposed, from the initial version of these draft laws, that the director-general of the SNCF national company should be subject to the provisions of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution; to change the name of the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities, since 1 October 2019 the Authority for the regulation of transport; to remove from the list of jobs concerned the presidency of La Française from the games whose majority of the capital is now open to the private sector; to replace ARJEL with the national gaming authority. With regard to HADOPI, the text aims to extend the term of office of the members until 25 January 2021, with the expiry of the term of office of the members on 28 January and 30 June 2020. The purpose of the measure is to avoid having to appoint new members for a short period of time, prior to the merger of HADOPI with the Superior Audiovisual Council – CSA – which is to intervene at the expiry of the terms of office of the members of the CSA appointed in 2015 by the President of the Senate and the President of the National Assembly. During the debates in committee, several Members were moved by the fact that we were anticipating a reform which Parliament has not yet had to deal with. I understand your reservations, but this measure will help to prevent the authority from facing major organizational problems that could hinder its action. Moreover, nothing prevents, at the end of the extended period, another decision, if it appears appropriate. The two bills you are considering today were first read in the Senate last December. Senators, in addition to legislative and editorial improvements, have expanded the scope of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution. As a reminder, the Government's original objective was to draw the consequences of reforms already carried out. However, we could not ignore Parliament's legitimate willingness to take such an opportunity to extend the scope of this paragraph. That is why we have carefully studied the proposals for addition from both chambers. It is in this context that the Senate, consistent with a 2017 proposal, added the Chair of the Administrative Documents Access Commission, CADA, to the list of appointments submitted for approval by Parliament. He also added the Director General of the French Immigration and Integration Office – OFII. With regard to the provisions relating to SNCF, the Senate adopted amendments to submit to Parliament for approval the presidency of the board of directors and the general management of the national company SNCF as well as SNCF Réseau. The Government does not agree with this proposal and would like to see a return to the original text, which limits the application of the Article 13 procedure to the general management of the SNCF national company, in order to guarantee a managerial unit, which is obviously necessary for the effectiveness of this undertaking. We want to comply with the common law of public-owned companies, which provides that only the executive director of a company directly owned by the State is appointed by decree of the President of the Republic. In the interests of good governance, it is obviously not desirable to establish competing legitimacys within the same structure. Furthermore, while the Government has understood the will of the Senate to guarantee the independence of SNCF Réseau, SNCF Réseau is already independent, as the appointment to the Directorate-General is subject to the assent of the regulatory authority. These are substantially amended texts which were examined by the Law Committee of your assembly at its meeting on 15 January. I would like to thank the members of this commission, its chair and the rapporteur for the work done on these bills. During the work of your committee, a consensus was reached in favour of the proposal by Members of the La France group to extend Parliament's supervisory power to appointments to the Directorate-General of OFII, the Agence nationale de la sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé – ANSM – and the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail – ANSES. The Government takes note of this. On the other hand, the Government will propose that you reconsider the addition of the CADA presidency to the list of jobs to be approved by Parliament. The CADA is indeed an independent administrative authority, one of the oldest in fact, but if the code of relations between the public and the administration gives it a power of sanction, the latter is very residual. The role of such an authority remains essentially non-decision-making, which we believe justifies not including it in the scope of the fifth paragraph of Article 13. This does not in any way call into question the importance of this independent administrative authority, in the context of a growing demand for transparency on the part of our fellow citizens. In fact, you refused such integration in 2017. With regard to the provisions on SNCF, the Government fully supported the rapporteur's initiative to revert to the initial drafting of the draft laws. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these general considerations, we will have the opportunity to debate in a few minutes of amendments which will, I hope, lead to a satisfactory text, and on which your House and the Senate can reach agreement at the Joint Joint Committee. This would be in line with the spirit of co-construction that has animated us in both chambers and leads us to retain additions to the text from both the majority and the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u4	Mr Christophe Euzet, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u5	We are considering two bills: an organic bill, and an ordinary bill, which deals, as has been said, with appointments governed by the fifth paragraph of section 13. In order for such appointments by the President of the Republic to be effective, they must first have received the approval of the relevant parliamentary committees; a number of bodies are concerned, since this is justified by "their importance for the guarantee of rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". Since its creation in 2010, the list of posts affected by this procedure has been growing steadily, which, in my view, is an important step forward in terms of democracy. This progress took place under the watchful supervision of the Constitutional Council, strengthening the guarantees of the rule of law. The organic and ordinary bills we are considering are intended to update the list of appointments covered by the fifth paragraph of section 13 and the table attached to the Act establishing the list of commissions and persons competent for each appointment. This discussion has two purposes, as has been said. The first is to update the organic law to take into account recent reforms: La Française des jeux has been privatized by the PACTE law, so that its management no longer falls under the "civil and military jobs of the State" dealt with in the Constitution; the Authority for the regulation of online games has been replaced by the National Game Authority, under the order of 2 October 2019; Above all, the three EPICs which constituted the SNCF merged into a unified company; Finally, the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities has been transformed into the Authority for the regulation of transport by the order of 24 July 2019. The ordinary bill draws the consequences of these changes by amending the table of competent commissions annexed to the Act of 23 July 2010. It also aims to anticipate the merger of HADOPI and the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel within a regulatory authority for audiovisual communication, which is planned for a forthcoming audiovisual law, by extending the mandates of the members of HADOPI, and in particular that of its President, who is coming to an end before the merger can take place; We know the crucial role it plays in the ongoing negotiations. The Senate has changed the original arrangement in several respects. First of all, he improved the drafting by updating obsolete denominations. It also voted in favour of the integration of the French Immigration and Integration Office and the CADA into the list of bodies concerned by the fifth paragraph of Article 13, as has been clarified at the moment. The Committee on Laws, of which I am the rapporteur, and whose position I share, has decided to maintain these provisions; I will detail our argument on this point in a moment. Thirdly, the Senate considered it appropriate, as recalled by the Secretary of State, to retain several jobs at SNCF in the list of appointments concerned by the fifth paragraph of Article 13. This does not seem relevant to us, since it is not compatible with the merger of the three former public industrial or commercial establishments into a unified company. If the directors-general of the national company SNCF and its subsidiary were appointed under the same scheme, this would create competition from the legitimacys. Of these two acts, the Law Commission has received some benevolence from the Government in its proposal to extend the list of appointments governed by the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution. In particular, the Government agreed that the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products and the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour should be included in the list of bodies concerned – a provision adopted by amendment in committee. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, the extension of this list must be contained; The procedure should be reserved for bodies which are essentially within the framework of the 2008 constitutional review. We must ensure the credibility of our demands; We shall therefore not go any further in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u6	In the joint general discussion, Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u7	Since the last constitutional revision in 2008, certain appointments by the President of the Republic to positions in public enterprises and institutions, independent administrative authorities or other sui generis structures are subject to the prior opinion of the parliamentary committees "because of their importance for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". In theory, therefore, Parliament has veto power when the addition of negative votes in the relevant committees represents at least three-fifths of the votes cast. The bills before us are primarily designed to remove from the list of functions concerned the presidency of La Française des jeux, the majority of which has been opened to the private sector. Secondly, they foresee that Parliament will also be called upon to decide on the appointment of the directors of the three public institutions comprising SNCF, namely SNCF, SNCF Réseau and SNCF Mobilitys, but on the appointment of the sole head of the national company, in accordance with the common law governing companies with public participation – and as a result of the law of 27 June 2018 for a new railway pact. Whether or not this reform has been approved, we see once again that Parliament's power of control will be diminished. To this initial list, the Senate and the Assembly's Law Committee have made additions, in particular those, at the initiative of a group of La France insoumée, of two bodies: the general management of ANSM and that of ANSES; We look forward to it. We also support the Senate's addition of the General Directorate of OFII and the Chairmanship of CADA. As the latter is a sensitive institution, we deplore the Government's tabling of an amendment to delete this addition. Let's get back to the bottom. If I said in the preamble that Parliament's veto power is theoretical, it is because since the 2011-2012 session, it has spoken 109 times about appointments proposed by the President of the Republic, and not once it has used its veto power, since the sum of the negative votes in the National Assembly and the Senate has never reached three-fifths of the votes cast. However, one or the other of the two competent committees has delivered a negative opinion five times, thus expressing the disagreement of the Chamber concerned, but without preventing the appointment of the prospective candidate. Admittedly, a candidate for the Supreme Council of the Judiciary was indeed recalculated in 2015 by the Law Commission of the National Assembly – a cunning episode since the candidate in question had been proposed by the President of the National Assembly himself, who was by definition of the same political sensitivity as the majority of the members of the Commission. Since the candidate was not proposed by the President of the Republic, however, the procedure did not fall under article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, which we are debating. It is to be believed that the authority of a President of the Assembly is easier to question by parliamentarians... Let us also put this veto in perspective: this is indeed a unique case. For the Liberties and Territories Group, Parliament cannot under any circumstances be regarded as a mere chamber of registration of the decisions of the President of the Republic and the Government. From this point of view, the organic bill and the ordinary bill are not mere technical adjustments designed to draw the consequences of measures taken by recent orders – especially in the context of the review of the pension reform for which the use of the ordinances will multiply, obliging us to legislate without any visibility, while the social partners will discuss the financing. This method raises serious questions since Parliament is called upon to draw the consequences of three ordinances which have not yet been ratified, on such important matters as the game police, the regulation of transport and the organisation of the railway network. The same applies to the change in the method of appointment to the CSA provided for in the bill on audiovisual reform, on which Parliament has not yet voted. It is therefore necessary to consider the development of the current procedure in order to strengthen Parliament's prerogatives, for example by adopting the principle of a positive vote on the three-fifths of the two committees, as Stéphane Little proposed in committee, or, failing that, the rule of the veto by a simple majority. In order to respect Parliament's prerogatives, we are therefore looking at this text in a nuanced way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u8	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u9	As the rapporteur pointed out, this draft organic law seeks to amend the list of jobs covered by the procedure provided for in article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. The aim is to clarify the list of jobs for which the power of appointment of the President of the Republic is subject to the outcome of the hearings before the relevant parliamentary committees. The organic bill before us is therefore essentially technical in scope and is limited to updating the jobs concerned. The main aim is to draw the consequences of a number of recent legislative developments concerning, in particular, the status of La Française des jeux and SNCF. This bill is short and technical, but it is not without interest. Its issue is the content of the list of jobs to which the appointment by the President of the Republic is accompanied by a parliamentary review procedure. The control of the executive is one of Parliament's primary tasks. It is carried out in particular by the hearing of candidates whose appointment to a particular position of responsibility is proposed by the President of the Republic. These hearings give the appointments in question transparency and welcome publicity. In this sense, the subject we are addressing is not annoyed and deserves our full attention; It largely transcends the usual partisan oppositions. The draft organic law has two distinct points. The first concerns the adaptation of the list of jobs concerned to the reforms under way, i.e. the elimination of a number of jobs, e.g. at SNCF or La Française des jeux. The change in the status of these bodies obliges us to change the list of jobs concerned to take note of the legislative developments under way. This aspect of the text does not require much comment. The second point, in addition to the reforms under way, is more general: it concerns the scope of the jobs concerned by the procedure provided for in article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. The substantive issue is to determine which jobs, "because of their importance for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation", must be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. By definition, the assessment of this list is partly subjective. It is therefore up to the Assembly to take a decision. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The text adopted in committee confirms the addition of several new jobs to the initial list. The Senate decided to include the positions of Director General of OFII and President of CADA. In the National Assembly, on the proposal of the opposition by amendment, the management posts of two health agencies were also included in the examination of the text by the Law Commission. We welcome these additions, which will enrich the list of jobs that are the subject of a public hearing before the Chambers. The importance that these public bodies have assumed in the defence of rights and freedoms and in the implementation of certain public policies fully justifies the exercise of parliamentary control. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill, with the additions mentioned above, and we are pleased that it has given rise, both in the Senate and in the Assembly, to substantial enrichments that confirm the interest of parliamentarians in controlling the action of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u10	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u11	The purpose of the draft organic law and the draft ordinary law submitted by the Government is to update the list of functions and jobs covered by the appointment procedure provided for in article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, so as to draw the consequences of recent reforms. These provisions concern fifty-two functions. Article 2 of the ordinary bill, for its part, extends until 25 January 2021 the current terms of office of the six members of the rights protection commission and the HADOPI college, which expire in 2020. Indeed, in accordance with the provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, tabled in the National Assembly on 5 December 2019, HADOPI should merge with the CSA to form a new body, the Audiovisual Communication Regulatory Authority. These co-ordination texts, a priori consensual, raise a problem of method, as Philippe Gosselin pointed out in the Committee on Laws: the fact of drawing the consequences in this text of ordinances that have not yet been ratified on matters as important as the game police, the regulation of transport and the organisation of the railway network does not guarantee the proper functioning of a democracy – and, a fortiori, to answer that this is only a problem of parliamentary calendar guarantees even less. Moreover, in anticipating a bill that is not yet on our agenda, you assume its fate and thus demonstrate the lack of margin and consideration enjoyed by Parliament, whereas Nicolas Sarkozy's constitutional reform in 2008 was on the contrary intended to strengthen his powers by granting him the power of veto over certain appointments proposed by the President of the Republic "because of their importance for the guarantee of rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". That being recalled, we are fully in line with the changes made by the Senate, namely the widening of the scope of the procedure in order to strengthen parliamentary control, which was completed by the group of La France insoubted in committee. In addition to the list of functions under the appointment procedure, the Chairmanship of the CADA, the Directorate-General of OFII, the Directorate-General of ANSM and the Directorate-General of ANSES are added. We welcome these extensions and the agreement reached between the two chambers. The LR group will vote in favour of the ordinary bill and the organic bill, in their enriched version. For all the reasons already mentioned, we will oppose the Government's amendment to remove CADA from the list of jobs and functions subject to article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u12	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u13	The draft organic and ordinary laws we are considering were originally conceived as technical texts designed to draw the consequences of various reforms in recent months on article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. Introduced by the constitutional reform of 2008, this provision gives Parliament the right to veto certain appointments proposed by the President of the Republic "because of their importance for guaranteeing the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". This right of veto is exercised in the form of a hearing by the competent committee of each of the two chambers of the person whose appointment is envisaged. Following this hearing, the appointment may be postponed in accordance with the three-fifth negative rule. The Organic Law of 23 July 2010, which we are about to amend, sets out a list of some 50 jobs and functions involved in this procedure. Recent reforms call for it to be updated: that is why the draft organic law tabled by the Government aims to replace the National Game Authority with the Authority for the regulation of online games, ARJEL, and to remove the president of La Française des jeux from the list, as a follow-up to the reforms adopted in the Pact law. On the other hand, the law of 27 June 2018 for a new railway pact established a unified public railway group ending Réseau ferré de France, RFF, which brought together three public industrial and commercial establishments. To take account of this transformation, the draft Organic Law adds the Director General of SNCF to the list of appointments under Article 13 of the Constitution. Furthermore, it amends the title of the Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities, which became the Authority for the regulation of transport on 1 October 2019. That was the original scope of the organic bill. The Senate expanded the list of appointments under Article 13 of the Constitution, including the Chairman of the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs and the Director General of the French Immigration and Integration Office. Our Law Commission found this contribution from the Senate useful. Furthermore, on a proposal from the La France group, it added to this list the Director-General of ANSM and the Director-General of ANSES. This enlargement seems to us appropriate, given the important role of these two agencies, and the sensitivity of the issues they need to address. In addition, I will refer to clause 2 of the ordinary bill, which aims to extend the mandate of HADOPI members until January 25, 2021, in the event of a merger of HADOPI with the CSA, which should be discussed in the context of the consideration of the future audiovisual bill. Some here say that voting for the article is tantamount to predicting the outcome of the article. On the contrary, it is realistic: by extending the aforementioned mandate, we avoid making new appointments, which saves time. If the text is not voted, it will help to draw the consequences on the missions of the incumbents to be appointed at that time. Thus, these appointments will be made with full knowledge of the facts. While the substance of the article does not require any particular comment, I would like to point out that caution should be exercised in view of the potential non-conformity of HADOPI with the Tele 2 case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, according to which the widespread and undifferentiated preservation of metadata, even for the purpose of combating crime, is contrary to Community law. More generally, it seems to me useful to consider in the future the cost-effectiveness of HADOPI. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – The rapporteur and Ms Hélène Zannier also applaud]] This clarification, and taking into account the above observations, the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of both texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u14	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u15	At first glance, the two bills do not require much debate. They simply update the list of functions and jobs for which the power of appointment of the President of the Republic, as provided for in article 13 of the Constitution, is exercised after public notice by the relevant parliamentary committees, with a view to drawing the consequences of recent reforms. However, far from the grooming that we are being made to believe, the bill and the organic bill are very substantial changes to Parliament's prerogatives. First of all, the Government is asking us not only to take note of past reforms, but to make changes resulting from orders that we have neither reviewed nor voted on, and from texts whose adoption or ratification are not even in sight! Similarly, the extension of the term of office of members of the HADOPI College anticipates the reform of the audiovisual sector, the examination of which has been postponed several times. In addition to the chronological inconsistency of the approach, the Government gives the impression that it takes the freedom to anticipate the future votes of our Assembly. You will understand, Madam Secretary of State, that we are challenging such a method, which totally denies the role of Parliament. I should like to recall that, in accordance with article 38 of the Constitution, the Government may apply to Parliament for authorization to legislate by ordinances, and that they can only be ratified expressly. If we can envisage the use of this particular procedure with regard to texts already examined, it is nowhere in our right that the executive power can pre-empt a vote by national representation on a text which is not even on the agenda, whatever the practical conveniences advanced as justification by the rapporteur in the Committee on Laws. Secondly, the two bills provide for amendments to the list of appointments made by the President of the Republic and subject to parliamentary scrutiny. In particular, the Government is reducing the number of SNCFs. Of course, the reform that has transformed SNCF into a public limited liability company requires adjustments. However, the change that the Government is calling for is much more radical. Indeed, only the management of the national company SNCF would now be subject to the vote of the competent committees. Thus, Parliament would no longer have any control over the management of the various subsidiaries. Currently, three SNCF leaders are subject to the procedure provided for in Article 13 of the Constitution; In the terms of the texts before us, there would be only one left. Parliamentary scrutiny is therefore greatly diminished. This development will be even more problematic than it already is if the parent company decides to dissociate the functions of Director-General from those of Chairman of the Board of Directors. Furthermore, the planned opening of the SNCF to competition justifies Parliament taking a closer look at these appointments. In this regard, the text from the Senate seemed much wiser. Thus, these texts have nothing technical or anodizing. On the contrary, they reveal important policy choices and must be considered with the utmost seriousness. If the addition of appointments to CADA, OFII, ANSM and ANSES is a good thing, the other provisions, both in form and substance, prevent us from being in favour of them. As a matter of principle, we reject anything that could further diminish the raison d'être of national representation. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take a good look at the weight of your vote on these issues, so that Parliament does not itself participate in the weakening of its powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u16	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u17	Presented by the Government as mere draft laws for coordination and updating, the two texts we are debating raise real difficulties, both in form and substance. On the form, the draft organic law draws the consequences of ordinances that have not yet been ratified, on such important subjects as the game police or the organization of the transport network. Moreover, it takes note – even better than the anticipation of a ratification vote! – legislative provisions that have not even been adopted by the National Assembly, in particular the audiovisual bill, which provides for the merger of HADOPI and the CSA. This is a curious method, which bears witness, once again, to a certain contempt of Parliament! Now I'm going to the bottom. The Government's legislation will result in a weakening of parliamentary control over appointments to certain public posts. Such a development runs counter to Parliament's role in this area. However, it is relatively recent: it is the result of the Constitutional Act of 23 July 2008, one of the effects of which was to regulate the appointment power of the President of the Republic. At present, these appointments are postponed if the addition of the negative votes in each competent committee of the National Assembly and Senate represents at least three-fifths of the votes cast in them. In our view, this provision is insufficient. We consider it necessary to go further, by replacing the existing veto system with a system based on a majority of three-fifths of the members of the relevant committees of the National Assembly and the Senate. Moreover, this common sense proposal was made in October 2015, when the report of the National Assembly's working group on the future of the institutions, chaired by MM. Claude Bartolone and Michel Winock. But not only do the texts we are looking at today do not go in this direction, but they go in the opposite direction, by reducing the scope of parliamentary control over certain public jobs which are particularly important for the economic and social life of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u19	With regard to La Française des jeux, you will logically argue, Madam Secretary of State, that the removal of control over the appointment of its CEO derives the legal consequences of its privatization. But then you will have to concede to us that it is also logical that we oppose Parliament's divestiture, as we opposed the privatisation of La Française des jeux. I would add that this arrangement contradicts – just refer to the record of our debates – the words of Minister Le Maire, who assured us, during the examination of the PACTE law, that the state, in any case, would remain in control of the governance of La Française des Jeux once it was privatized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u21	A major problem is the reduction in the scope of control over the appointment of SNCF leaders. With the reorganization of the company, only one person will be subject to this control procedure, the general manager of the national company, against three currently. Parliamentary oversight will be weakened, particularly if the parent company decides to dissociate the functions of Director-General from those of Chairman of the Board of Directors. In this case, only the appointment of the Director General will be subject to the prior opinion of the parliamentary committees. Above all, Parliament will lose control of the governance of the railway infrastructure manager – SNCF Réseau – which is a particularly unacceptable step backwards in the context of opening up the railway sector to competition. Of course, we note some positive additions to the list of appointments, including the Chair of the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs and the Director General of the French Immigration and Integration Office, who came from the debates and the vote of the Senate. We also note the inclusion in the table annexed to the draft organic law, in the committee of laws, thanks to an initiative by the group La France insoumée, the Director General of the Agence nationale de la sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé, and that of the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail. However, these advances do not change the way we look at the organic bill and the ordinary bill. In our view, both participate in the devalorisation of Parliament, relegated to the role of a Chamber of Registration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u22	Yes! As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ... and will have the effect of weakening parliamentary control over the appointment of strategic business leaders. We will draw the consequences and vote against both bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u24	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u25	The two bills before us aim to update the list of functions and jobs for which the power of appointment of the President of the Republic, as provided for in article 13 of the Constitution, is exercised after public notice of the relevant parliamentary committees. We oppose these two texts for two reasons. One is formal, methodological, but involves a democratic issue; the other derives the consequences of our opposition to the legislation in which these bills work. The first reason for our vote is that the Government and the majority invite us to draw the consequences of orders that have not been ratified, which is equivalent to the principle that the ratification of orders by the National Assembly is merely a form of politeness, not a constitutional requirement. This situation is not without cause. The progressive disarmament of the National Assembly under the Fifth Republic and the quasi-hierarchical subordination of the members of the parliamentary majority to the executive suggest that the National Assembly is there only to take note of the draft laws, and not to write them, to examine them, to amend them and to vote them, by granting or refusing permission to the Government to act, or rather to afford itself arguments of legitimacy, the very one which it cruelly lacks. I would therefore like to recall here that, under article 38 of the Constitution, an order acquires permanent status as a law if and only if the National Assembly so decides.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u27	This is not the case with the orders discussed here, nor with the order of 3 June 2019 containing various provisions relating to the SNCF group, nor with the order of 2 October 2019 reforming the regulation of gambling, nor with the order of 24 July 2019 relating to the regulator of airport charges. None has been ratified. In our view, this is a perfect illustration of the expression "Putting the plough before the ox." This observation brings me to the second reason for our opposition. We have opposed – and continue to do so – the legislation that comes with the consequences of these bills, as they privatize and open up ever more to competition from companies that we believe should remain public. I will focus here on the case of SNCF, and will recall the reasons for our positioning. First of all, since the separation of the railway network and its operation in 1997, successive governments have been constantly recoupling SNCF in order to increase the share of its activities which can be put into competition. This dismantling of the public service has been carried out in a coherent manner and in line with successive European directives. The last avatar of this company continues to be dismantled is the new railway pact adopted by the Government. As soon as it was examined here, the majority and the Government used railwaymen and railwaymen as scapegoats. We then pointed to the anti-ecological and anti-social policies implemented. They are anti-ecological, because dismantling the SNCF is tantamount to favouring rail deserts, as well as the mandatory use of the car for workers living in peripheral areas. This is tantamount to choosing austerity rather than the planet, so to speak. They are antisocial, because the Spinetta report, on which the Government and the majority have relied largely to justify the transformation of SNCF into a unified public group, focused on the debt of the company. In fact, the Government is preparing for the abolition of a dedicated and competent trade force, that of railway workers and railway workers, and its replacement by precarious workers. It is a company of accable railwaymen and railwaymen. As for debt, we do not see it as a scourge, but as an investment. In this case, it was also created by the management's questionable choices in terms of railway development. In particular, with regard to appointments to the head of this company, the choice you have made to reduce the scope of those who will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny shows that you do not even draw the consequences of the findings you establish yourself with a view to privatisation. To these anti-social and anti-ecological policies, we oppose proposals in favour of ecological bifurcation, which will require public investment in the rail sector, and protected employees, with a status – which the numerous strikers are asking for at the moment, the SNCF, throughout the transport sector and throughout the country. We note with satisfaction the adoption in committee of the laws of our amendments to include among those to be submitted for the opinion of the parliamentary committees the appointments to the Directorates-General of the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency and the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products. However, we maintain our opposition to these two texts, because we are opposed to privatization and competition, and we are in favour of maintaining investment and public control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u28	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u29	I cannot speak, Mr President, because I have not had time to prepare.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u30	Nice honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u31	You will be able to speak later, Mr.Member of Parliament – I would also like to greet my constituency neighbour in you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u32	I greet you too, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u33	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u34	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single clause in the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u35	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u36	We are presenting this amendment again, because it is necessary for us to include among those which must be examined by Parliament the appointment to the Directorate-General of Business France. Business France is a public industrial and commercial establishment. Its missions are to help the international development of French companies and their exports, to inform and support foreign investors in France, to promote the attractiveness of our country, its companies and territories, to manage and develop international volunteerism in companies, and to carry out international cooperation actions by valuing its areas of expertise and strengthening its influence on international missions. In view of this perimeter, it seems to us that the management of Business France falls within the scope of article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. It should also be noted that this structure has experienced scandals. For example, Ms Pénicaud, former Managing Director of Business France and current Minister of Labour, is called into question for a tender procedure deemed problematic. Parliament could therefore provide better leadership on appointments, greater transparency and better clarity on appointees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u37	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u38	Indeed, we have already had this discussion. Business France values economic projects, and is essentially limited to implementing public policies of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unlike the bodies that we have agreed to add to the new list contained in the draft organic law. Business France has no control power or means of sanction; no special independence is required of him. Therefore, this institution does not fall within the scope of article 13, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. Unfavorable opinion. I also respond quickly to the remarks made during the general discussion. I do not go back to La France's outright political opposition. However, with regard to SNCF choices, the solution adopted is one of common sense: when a public limited liability company is unified, only its President and Chief Executive Officer may be appointed in the context of Article 13(5) procedure. Otherwise, I say again, a competition of legitimacy would arise, since we would thus appoint persons subordinated to him. Mister Little, a little mathematics: fifty-two plus four, that's fifty-six... And I do not see how to move from fifty-two to fifty-six bodies under parliamentary scrutiny – which will be the case thanks to the work we have done, and thanks to amendments from both sides of the House – would be a regression for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u39	[[Smile]] Ask Mr. Villani!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u40	Finally, with regard to the method, which has been criticized in particular by our colleague from the Group of the European People's Party, The Republicans, we ask you, it is true, to draw the consequences of orders that have not yet been ratified. But it is for the sole purpose of managing the intermediate period that will lead to ratification! It's just a calendar problem. And, of course, Parliament can still not vote for what it would not like to vote. It is more a matter for us to strengthen the role of Parliament, and in no way to weaken it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u41	What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 1?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u42	Unfavorable opinion. Business France mainly carries out technical missions: it accompanies companies, it establishes arguments to convince investors to come to France, it helps French companies to enter new markets. As for the cases you are referring to, they were publicized but did not stand up to the judge's examination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u43	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u44	This amendment seeks to remove the chairmanship of the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents from the list of jobs and functions whose appointment is subject to the procedure of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u45	Fifty-five more, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u46	This is an amendment of consistency. The Government had already opposed this addition and did not want the compromise reached in 2017 to be called into question. As the rapporteur has said very well, we have been open to extend the scope of appointments submitted to Parliament's opinion. But ANSES and ANSM are authorities that play an important role in matters that concern all French people – medicines, food safety, the environment... – while CADA is an administrative authority whose power is essentially to give advice, but not to sanction. As such, it does not seem to fall within the strict application of Article 13, which I recall is intended to defend constitutional freedoms: we are, I believe, far enough from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u47	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u48	We understand the logic of the Government: if it maintains the position it has supported before senators, it is because it defends an administrative vision of the role of CADA. However, once it is not customary, our opinions will diverge. The essential mission of the CADA is to take decisions that enable citizens to exercise their rights fully: it is therefore a matter of exercising public freedom, as provided for in the Constitution. It develops jurisprudence, doctrines of access to administrative documents and goes far in the transparency requirements it requires of the administration. We ourselves are the products of a recent evolution of society; and between 2017 and 2020, the requirements for modernisation and transparency of public action have changed considerably. The role of CADA has also evolved: think about open data, algorithms, the dematerialization of public services... Finally, it has the power to impose real penalties for failure to comply with the rules for the reuse of public information. For all these reasons, I express an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u49	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u50	The MODEM and related groups did not support the Government's amendment. The rapporteur explained the main reasons for this opposition. Under the Constitution, the appointments examined by Parliament are of particular importance "for the guarantee of rights and freedoms", as is the case with CADA. This is all the more important as the demands of society evolve, as our rapporteur has said. In addition, one of the roles of Parliament is the control of the Government; This is indeed an essential part of the mandate entrusted to us. As parliamentarians, we may therefore need CADA. Therefore, we wish to confirm what has been voted in the Senate: the appointment to the chair of the CADA must be among those that are being considered by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u51	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u52	I will be brief, because the essentials have been said. I agree with the arguments put forward by both the rapporteur and Mr Latomb. I would add that last night we saw a government amendment coming to a public meeting at the last minute, which had not been presented in committee. This was not a minor amendment, nor is it a minor amendment. CADA was added to this list in the Senate: the Government had all the time to request that it be removed from the list during the committee debates. He did not, and he tabled an amendment at the sitting: this practice is not respectful of the work of the Law Commission, nor of Parliament as a whole. Finally, given the functions of the CADA and the demands of transparency that are growing daily in political life, how can we imagine that it is not a tool for the exercise of individual freedoms? It therefore falls within the scope of Article 13(5).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u53	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u54	The Group of the Republic on the move is against the Government's amendment. CADA develops a doctrine of access to administrative documents: its role is not only advisory, but also administrative. It is well involved in the definition of a policy of transparency of public action. I would point out that, according to Article 15 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, "society has the right to ask any public official of its administration to account".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u55	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u56	We have, you remember, firmly fought against the privatisation of La Française des jeux, provided for by the PACTE law, and the consequences of which are set out in paragraph 11. This amendment aims to recall our opposition, and to restore the appointment of La Française des jeux as president and general manager among those included in this organic law, the state having to keep control over this appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u58	From a political point of view, I can understand La France's opposition to the privatization of La Française des jeux. From a legal point of view, the reform has already taken place and it follows that the appointment of the director of La Française des jeux is no longer subject to the procedure laid down in Article 13 of the Constitution. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u60	Unfavorable opinion. The discussion on privatization took place. This appeal amendment, which is intended to recall La France's unsuspecting position, is inoperative since we are not entitled to control a company that has been privatized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u61	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u62	I will be brief as I spoke about this during my speech in the general discussion. By deleting two paragraphs, it is a question of reminding us of our opposition to the privatisation of the SNCF. It will be on the agenda again in the months and years to come, because we look forward to returning to this political choice. If not now, this amendment will be useful in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u64	By virtue of the parallelism of forms, what has been done can tomorrow be defeated by a next majority. We have to become a majority again! As for the merger of the three public industrial and commercial establishments into a single company, I repeat, the text is in line with the common law: only the appointment of the president and chief executive officer of the company, not the subsidiaries, will be subject to control under the fifth paragraph of Article 13. However, I would point out that the appointment of the director of SNCF Réseau will remain subject to the Transport Regulatory Authority. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u66	My opinion is also unfavourable, for the same reasons as the rapporteur. As drafted, the amendment would have the effect of removing any control of the person who runs the SNCF, which is not desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u67	I put to the vote the single clause in the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u68	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u69	Amendment No 1 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u70	The Secretary of State has the floor to support the Coherence Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u71	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u72	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u73	Unfavorable opinion, consistent with the previous debate on the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u74	Amendments Nos 2 by Mrs Danièle Obono and 3 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u75	Amendment No 4 by Mrs Danièle Obono is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u76	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u77	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u78	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on a new reading, of the bill to combat hateful content on the Internet (No. 2534, 2583).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u79	Last night, the Assembly began discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with Article 1 ter A.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u80	I have before me two amendments, Nos 78 and 34, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u81	I have had the opportunity to say this in committee, it would be the least of the things that parents should be informed of what happens to their children, especially when they are victims. Parents have the primary role and the primary duty to protect their children. It is not an association that must be given priority to protecting a child victim of harassment. Parents must be the first to be warned in order to comfort and surround him. A little more trust is needed in the family unit to find out what is good for a child who has been harassed on the Internet. Sub-question: Who will decide whether or not to inform the family? If it is the judge, no problem, but what right could an association decide whether or not the family should be excluded? This solution does not seem desirable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u82	I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u83	This amendment is in common with Mrs Ménard's, but it is totally contrary to what has just been defended. The discussion has already taken place in the Law Commission. In some cases, it seems necessary to allow the minor to object to his parents or legal representatives being informed of the notification, for reasons related to his privacy. I take the example given in committee: a child who is the target of internet content related to his or her sexuality and who has asked an association to delete the message because of his or her homophobic character may not want his or her parents or legal representatives to know his or her sexual orientation. The drafting of the Senate specifies that the association "informs the minor and, if it is not contrary to his interest, his legal representatives". The wording adopted on the initiative of our rapporteur in committee provides for information "in a manner appropriate to the interests of the child". This means that legal representatives are necessarily informed of the association's intervention and that only the modalities can be arranged: are parents notified by email, during an interview, by telephone, immediately or a few days later... This wording does not leave the association with the possibility of not informing legal representatives, whereas the legislator has already allowed children not to warn their parents, in particular with regard to sexual orientation or contraception. She doesn't seem to go in the desired direction. That is why I propose to return to the drafting of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u84	Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u85	These two amendments propose approaches which, in my view, are conciliatable and reconciled in the provisions adopted by the Law Committee. It is not a question of bypassing the parents, but of ensuring that the interests of the child are protected. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u86	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs had the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u87	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u88	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u89	This explanation clarifies your position: you want parents to be informed. In some cases, however, children may refuse to know their sexual orientation or practices. This has already been done: the issuance of emergency contraception without parental consent, for example, is permitted. The proposed wording restricts the discretion of the minor. I did not understand that in committee, but now things are clearer. You want parents to be informed, while in some cases minors call for an association because they do not want their parents or legal representatives to be aware of their approach, which affects the intimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u90	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u91	I do not fully agree with Mr. Latombe's interpretation of what is meant by "a manner appropriate to the interests of the child". It could be argued that in the interests of the child, in some cases, parents should not be informed. However, I reiterate my question: what right could an association decide whether or not to inform the child's leaders? It's not her job to do it. The drafting process is not complete. If the child does not want his or her parents to be informed, it is not up to the association to decide. In this case, the decision could be entrusted to the family judge, but it is certainly not the responsibility of an association that is not responsible to the child. The primary responsibility and protection role of the child rests with the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u92	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u93	The debate between Mr Latomb and Mrs Ménard shows that this text is not the place for a change in the framework of the legal responsibility of parents towards their children. The common law on child protection already makes it possible not to prevent parents in case of danger resulting from their action or inaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u94	Who decides?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u95	The proposed wording does not call into question ordinary law. It only specifies that the information is given in a manner appropriate to the interests of the child, as some parents may be unaware of the context in which their child was able to deliver or receive messages online. It is not a question of devoting a new secret to the parents, who must always be informed but under conditions specific to the situation and the interests of the child. A discussion can probably be envisaged on the interactions between parents and children – this is not my specialty – but I suggest that it take place in a more global context and not limited to the Internet. This text is not the appropriate tool to change the legal framework for relations between parents and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u96	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u97	Mr Secretary of State, the drafting will render ineffective the power given to minors to seize associations. To prevent their legal representatives from being informed, they will not address associations. This is contrary to your original objective, which was to facilitate the use of associations to assist minors in obtaining the withdrawal of content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u98	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 99, adopted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u99	I repeat this amendment aimed at aligning the text with that of international conventions by introducing the concept of the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u101	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u102	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u103	The European Commission had identified a risk of widespread surveillance linked to the drafting of Article 2. We believe that the new wording of this article still entails, despite the Senate's real progress and for indirect reasons, a risk of widespread monitoring of content by private actors, whether they are global giants or small operators. The fact that you have accepted the deletion of paragraph 5 bis of Article 2 adopted by the Senate as suggested by the European Commission and the addition of the words "if any" in paragraph 4 is not, in our view, sufficient to completely rule out this danger. It is in fact the conjugation of Article 2 with Article 1e r as it has just been adopted, together with the sanctions provided for in Article 4, that this risk persists. This proves once again that it is indeed article 1, with the refusal to adopt a genuine obligation of means, as well as the establishment of a confused process, due in particular to paragraph 6, which poses a problem. As I recall, article 1, paragraph 6, states that "the intentional nature of the infringement... may result from the absence of a proportionate and necessary examination of the notified content", which opens the way for endless litigation. The discussion of Article 2 gives us a new opportunity to stress that the refusal of more cross-cutting legislation to tackle the root causes of evil and the refusal of legislation drawn up at European level prevent you from proposing mechanisms that would achieve the two objectives of freeing and protecting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u104	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 130, to delete the article. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u105	This is indeed a deletion amendment, because Article 2 is intended to impose obligations of means on the major platforms, those – I repeat the words you have spoken in committee, the rapporteur – which already exist and are mixing content massively. As I had the opportunity to say last night, the size of the platforms has nothing to do with the more or less serious nature of the statements considered hateful. I'm even bewildered by this approach: insulting someone on Facebook or Twitter doesn't seem more serious than doing it on more confidential blogs. I therefore do not see how to stir content massively could have any impact on the hateful nature of the statement. When it comes to manifestly hateful remarks, I do not understand what would justify limiting the protection of victims to the most important platforms. It is because of this inconsistency that I propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u106	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u107	The Freedom of the Press Act of 1881 gave the judge and himself the tools of repression against abuses of freedom of expression, such as calls for murder or violence against property or persons, defamation, etc. The Constitution enshrines the judicial judge as the guarantor of individual freedoms. Privatization of the judiciary for the benefit of foreign private companies seems unacceptable to me in a rule of law and in a democracy. I am committed to our rule of law as it is: it provides for investigation, investigation, adversarial and defence. The question is very simple: do you want to see Facebook and Twitter replace the judicial authority? I'm not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u109	It is unfavorable and I would remind you that we are discussing Article 2, which deals with the obligations of means for platforms, such as the need to have moderators or to be transparent, in order to combat hatred on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u111	Same opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u112	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u113	In my previous speech, I made it clear that Article 2 itself may not be a problem: it is linked with Articles 1 and 4, which will encourage widespread control, that it will put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u114	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u115	We must ensure that the censorship of digital platforms will not be arbitrary. In Article 2, paragraph 3, I wish to clarify that the implementation of obligations by operators must not only be proportionate and necessary, but also justified. The criteria of proportionality and necessity are not sufficient. However, the measures implemented must also be justified. For the protection of the first of our freedoms, freedom of expression, this is the least of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u117	It is unfavorable, because it seems to me that the objective pursued by this amendment has been achieved with the current wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u118	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u119	The aim of this amendment is to remove the reference to the size of operators and the nature of the service provided, in favour of a different wording allowing for a better definition of the proportionate nature of the measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u120	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u121	This amendment seeks to delete paragraph 4, which gives the CSA – the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – exorbitant powers, which normally and naturally come to justice. However, the CSA, which is now becoming the true receptacle of reports – another name of modern delation – is transformed into an arbiter of what to say or not, which is the exact opposite of the principle of freedom of expression, the limits of which can only be defined by law and can only be controlled by justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u123	According to paragraph 4, the APF makes recommendations on the technical means that the platforms will mobilize. This mission has never been one of the prerogatives of justice and is well in the role of regulator: the APF will therefore be fully in its role. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u124	The Government's amendment No. 151 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u125	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 114, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u126	In order to effectively combat the spread of hatred on the Internet, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers – as we have already said, but we repeat – that the State should not transfer what is a public service mission to private operators. We believe that it will be up to the State to intervene in the proceedings and to pursue an ambitious criminal policy in this area. With this in mind, we propose, by this amendment, that, when content contrary to the law is reported by an individual to the operators, this notification be transmitted without delay to the PHAROS platform – a platform for harmonising, analysing, cross-referencing and guiding alerts – i.e. to a public platform. By involving the PHAROS platform in the procedure, we would allow operators not to be the only judges of what is manifestly unlawful and not to be left alone decision-makers to follow up on the notifications transmitted to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u128	I fully share, Mr President, the objective that you are aiming for in this amendment. Article 3 (9) states in this regard: "[Online platform operators] shall promptly inform the competent public authorities of any activities which violate the provisions referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6(2) [of the Law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy] which they would be notified of and which the recipients of their services would carry out". The device you are referring to is therefore already specified in this paragraph. We do not refer specifically to PHAROS, because this platform has no legal existence; That is why reference is simply made to competent authorities. I therefore ask for your amendment to be withdrawn, which is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u130	Same opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u131	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u132	To the extent that the obligation to withdraw clearly hateful content from high-traffic platforms within 24 hours has been reinstated by the National Assembly after being removed from the Senate, this amendment also aims to restore the time stamping of this offence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u134	It is all the more favourable that this measure brings together the evidence that will serve as evidence in the prosecution of the perpetrators of hate content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u135	The rapporteur's amendment No 142 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u136	I have before me two amendments, Nos 118 and 105, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u137	I'll come back to the grey content again. In essence, paragraph 6 makes it clear that we are going to ask private actors to be judges of the illegal nature of the content. Either private actors decide to withdraw notified content and, where appropriate, inform the author of the action taken, or they do not withdraw the content and inform the person who notified it. In both cases, these private actors consider the content to be manifestly illegal – or not. For my part, I say that in some cases they may have doubts. That's what I call grey content. My amendment seeks to provide for a third case in which, in case of doubt, private actors can refer to the APF – which may itself call on experts – in order to obtain its opinion in order to decide whether or not to withdraw content. Of course, it will be necessary to sanction any abuse of the APF, but this measure seems to me to clarify the drafting of the text and to resolve once and for all the issue of grey content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u138	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 105, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u139	I would like to avoid the rapporteur referring me, as in my previous amendment, to Article 3! I have, of course, read this article, which obliges operators of high-traffic online platforms to general information about remedies. However, the amendment I am proposing seeks, in order to ensure respect for freedom of expression against the risks of excessive withdrawal of content by operators, to ensure that information is provided in the context of the procedure in order to allow for an exchange of information between parties. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers that there is a more effective fight against particularly hateful statements and ideas by the contradictory debate than by the hasty prohibition of their expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u140	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u141	The two amendments are different in nature. You are returning, Madame de La Raudière, to a debate that we had yesterday. The role of the APF will not be to examine and evaluate individual content on a case-by-case basis, but to address the organization and means used by the platforms. This point has been clarified in the text. If the platform has a doubt about content – we do not deny that doubt can exist – the competent actor will not be the CSA, but the judge. As I indicated yesterday, the law already allows a platform to refer the matter to the judge for information on content, a possibility that it will retain tomorrow. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 118. Mr Little, I refer you not to Article 3, but to Article 2, paragraph 9: "When [operators] decide to remove or make inaccessible notified content and they have the information to contact the user responsible for the publication of the content removed or rendered inaccessible," they implement counter-notification and call devices allowing "this user to be informed of this decision and the reasons for it, as well as the possibility to challenge it. They also remind the originator of the publication that civil and criminal penalties are incurred for the publication of illegal content. » Everything is planned, and it is an individual information. The user will be the recipient of all relevant elements. I therefore ask you to withdraw Amendment No 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u143	Madame de La Raudière, we continue to have a different assessment of the effects of Article 1 and how it is coordinated with Article 2. As the rapporteur said, the APF should not have to decide on individual cases; It must be based on an assessment of systemic moderation mechanisms, even if it is likely to be responsible for informing all platforms of the state of the case law. Let's keep the system consistent. We have a few debates on this, and we will continue them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u144	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u145	I'll come back to the grey content. It is true that the APF does not wish – as he said himself – to have to deal with individual cases, both because it is not legally armed for this purpose and because it does not have the means to decide on these cases. Therefore, you say that this task will go back to the platforms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u146	That's not what we're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u147	...which would imply that they are capable of doing what the APF does not want to do. You add, to relativize, that platforms can seize the judge if they have a doubt. In essence, however, there will be a large number of reports of grey content. Therefore, a platform will not be able to bring all the grey or dubious content to the judge's attention and get an answer in time and time. I repeat, the device is not operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u148	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u149	I have already defended her in committee, Madam rapporteur, and you have answered me when he was satisfied. It is intended to clarify the wording of paragraph 7: "[operators] shall implement proportionate human and, where appropriate, technological procedures and means to ensure the prompt processing of notifications received". This may mean that, in some cases, only technology can moderate content. I take an example: a platform decides to remove a tweet that has been reported to it; Therefore, the algorithm, to which we have learned that this tweet is illegal, will recognize it and delete it automatically as soon as it sees it passing. However, a journalist may wish to use a blurred version of this tweet – especially on television – to illustrate his or her point, without giving access to his or her content. I propose to make it clear that technological means can only be aid, and nothing else. The wording would become: "where appropriate, using proportionate technologies". It is clear that no algorithm can make a decision on its own; This is a basis of our right since the adoption of the General Data Protection Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u151	We have already had this semantic debate in committee. I believe that you are confusing the terms "if any" and "if no". "If necessary" means "if necessary". The wording does not imply that 100% algorithmic treatment can be used. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u153	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u154	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u155	I am sorry, Madam rapporteur, but I did not use the phrase "in the absence of". According to the dictionary, "if any" means "if the opportunity arises". As you had already made this objection to me in committee, I questioned, out of intellectual honesty, about ten professors of French and university language specialists. According to three-quarters of them, taking into account the "and" and the expression "if any", the sentence indicates that, if platforms do not have adequate human resources, they will be able to use only technological means. I am therefore again defending this amendment, not to bother you, but to clarify the wording. By inserting the words "with the help of", we would clearly set things straight from the beginning and avoid, in the long run, problems of jurisprudence; the question that I raise would no longer arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u156	Amendment No 81 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u157	Amendment No 143 by Mrs Laetitia Avia is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u158	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u159	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u160	I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 30, which can be presented together. Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u161	For the umpteenth time, I am defending amendments that seek to balance the system. Stéphane Peu has also made some attempts in this direction. We will require platforms to remove illegal content within 24 hours of reporting. For the sake of parallelism, I propose that platforms be required to rule within the same time frame on the challenge of a non-retirement decision. This is the subject of Amendment No 27. By Amendment No 30, I propose to remind Article 2, as has been done in Article 1, that the judge may be seized, even if we are talking about the right – I repeat your words, Madam rapporteur. In order to establish a balance, the platforms should be required to decide within 24 hours on the challenge of a decision not to withdraw, which would then allow the person concerned to refer the matter to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u162	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u163	I have an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 27. In this case, the examination to be carried out by the platform and any exchanges with the data subject may take more than 24 hours. By definition, this is a conflict situation. My opinion is also unfavourable on Amendment No 30. You are targeting the court with exclusive jurisdiction to hear actions relating to literary and artistic property. However, this is not necessarily the relevant court.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u164	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u165	With this bill – as I said in the general discussion – we are not fighting hate online; We hide it by deleting the contents. To make the text more effective and to effectively combat online hatred, it is necessary to have the means to prosecute the perpetrators of hate content. I would therefore like paragraph 12 to be reinstated in the wording adopted by the Senate. The aim is to oblige the platforms to keep the identification data of the perpetrators of hate content, in order to be able to find them when necessary in the context of a judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u167	Article 6 II of the Law on Trust in the Digital Economy already provides that the identification elements of the users must be retained. It shall apply in this case. The Senate had moved the retention obligation provision. We reintroduced it to Article 1, which we adopted last night.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u168	Thank you, rapporteur. I withdraw the amendment, even before the Government gives its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u169	Thank you, Madame de La Raudière!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u170	Amendment No 90 by Mrs Laure de La Raudière is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u171	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u172	Mocking, insults, discrimination, harassment, racism, threats, the faces of cyberhaine are, we know, multiple, and its consequences can be dramatic for the victims, especially the most fragile of them. When I was practicing as a nurse in child psychiatry, I was able to see very directly and on many occasions the damage caused by hate speech on children and adolescents. In some cases, it's their whole life that's turned. In order to protect young people, pedagogy, education and prevention among minors and their parents are fundamental. The efforts of the State services, associations and families themselves to educate our young people about the proper use of the Internet and the inherent risks will have to be continued. It will also be necessary – as is the meaning of Article 3 – for the platforms to disseminate detailed information, accessible and understandable by all, clearly outlining the rules, penalties for non-compliance with the law, the means of redress and the tools of moderation they deploy. These provisions will have to be applied seriously by operators, so that a peaceful Internet can be built on which everyone can express themselves, inform themselves and share, without hatred and with respect for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u173	We come to the amendments to Article 3. I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u174	It is intended to clarify that the clear information we ask platforms to disseminate will be validated by the APF in advance. Similarly, we decided that the information notices provided to consumers by banking institutions and insurance bodies would be validated in advance by the competent administrative authority. This would ensure that platforms do not use incomprehensible language and that users are well informed. This corresponds a priori to the role we wish to give to the APF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u176	With regard to the obligations of means set out in the text, the APF will intervene upstream and downstream. Under Article 2, which we have just adopted, it will make recommendations to support the platforms in this area. It will then exercise control over the entire system, which is the subject of Article 4. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u178	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u179	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u180	The whole question is that of temporality: you are referring to the CSA's a priori power of recommendation, but it will only be aware of information in the context of its ex post facto control. However, the idea is to avoid the emergence of specific cases, by establishing prior information. It is a matter of securing the users of the various platforms, by ensuring that the CSA intervenes upstream, rather than simply downstream, in a curative manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u181	Amendment No 106 by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u182	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u183	It is intended to complement the information on-line. As part of my work against school harassment, I see that many young people are completely unaware of the grounds for incrimination, such as the penalties they face. We propose that operators clearly and clearly mention on each platform the information concerning the elements of the offences of insult and incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u185	Some elements of information are already mandatory, however, I believe that there should be flexibility for platforms, so that they use a vocabulary adapted to their public, which will make the information more readable and accessible. In addition, your amendment is aimed only at insulting and inciting hatred, while the text covers a wider scope. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u187	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u188	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u189	It is true that the amendment refers only to offences of insult and incitement to hatred; I therefore invite you, the rapporteur, to supplement it with a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u190	[[Smile]] In this case, the opinion is unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u191	I also agree with the need for platforms to use appropriate vocabulary; It is obvious that TikTok and Facebook are not addressed to the same audience. In my view, they still have to be forced to present with precision, by means of pedagogy, what are the words that can be criminalized and the punishments that can be incurred. Some sites will do so spontaneously to sign up for the text, but for those who will not – I think of a few foreign platforms – the constraint may prove to be salvary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u192	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u193	I do not wish to comment on the possible relevance of Mr Balanant's amendment, but I would like to point out that the objective which you pursue, and whose relevance I see, will only be achieved by carrying out educational work upstream. In my opinion, indeed, the 14-year-olds who go to social networks, especially those who commit acts of harassment, will not read the legal conditions of use. We must therefore act within national education and families: I know that you are working on it, particularly in the context of your mission against harassment, which is probably far more effective than anything we are doing, to combat this phenomenon among adolescents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u194	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u195	It tends to make it clear that the bill does not aim at the total automation of content control – we have stated this on several occasions. Platforms must account for the human and technological means they use both to comply with the obligation imposed by Article 1, which requires them to remove manifestly illegal and notified content, and to withdraw content that has not been reported.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u196	I have before me three amendments, Nos 33, 58 and 125, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 33 and 58 are identical. I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u197	I have little illusions about the fate of the amendments on interoperability – we have already had a discussion on this subject at first reading – and I regret that. This is an important subject which we will have to consider. Some amendments had been declared inadmissible to the National Assembly on the grounds that they were unrelated to the text. However, equivalent amendments tabled in the Senate were declared admissible; They were partly examined by our fellow senators, allowing us to re-submit them for discussion. The Secretary of State had taken the time at first reading to explain why he was opposed to the mention of interoperability in this text, as provided for in the amendments then tabled. They had been both in Article 3 by Mrs Frédérique Dumas – not knowing if she would file a new one along the same lines, I did so to give the opportunity to debate it – and in Article 4 by me. Honourable senators have made a choice that deserves to be considered: we are many on these benches who believe that interoperability is one of the possible solutions to combat hate on the Internet. We wish to see this discussion flourish through this new reading, in order to adopt at least the provisions voted in the Senate and deleted in the committee of laws. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to include them in Article 4, but we must have this discussion: it was somewhat truncated at first reading by the inadmissibility opposed to the amendments. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, to ask for harmonisation between the two chambers on the admissibility criteria. We need to adopt a common reading of the Constitution in order to avoid diminution or imbalance in the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u198	We have to stop censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u199	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u200	Indeed, we have taken the opportunity offered by Mrs.Dumas' very good initiative to support the amendment she tabled in committee in order to continue the discussion on interoperability following the work of honourable senators. This is certainly not the only solution to all the difficulties: no one claims such an ambition and asserts the opposite would be lacking in wisdom. However, interoperability represents a structural response, as it provides a tool for victims while making the Internet ecosystem a more secure and secure place for those who want to express themselves freely. Remember that the economy of platforms depends on what is called the economy of attention. However, it is attracted by the most virulent content: it is thus that individuals, whether victims or not of offences targeted by the text, find themselves captive, with the only alternative of suffering the virality of certain content or leaving the spaces they frequent, at the price of the sociability they have constituted and the resources offered by them. The La Quadrature du Net association, like the communities that defend the introduction of such devices, explains that interoperability ensures that everyone is not caught up in a platform. It allows everyone to read from an A service the content disseminated by their contacts on a B service, and to respond to it as if it were on the B service. Interoperability is guaranteed when it is based on open standards. Services such as Facebook, Twitter and Youtube hold their power from the high number of users they have made captive: this large number encourages others to join their space. In addition, their captivity allows them to impose constant surveillance for advertising purposes. Today, many people wish to escape, but are forced to stay under pain of losing contact with their relationships.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u201	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u202	I thank my colleagues for their support, acquired from the first reading. I would like to return to the substance of the matter. "The market for attention is the society of fatigue," writes Bruno Patino, author of La Civilisation du poisson socke. "We need to move from an economy from the capture of attention to an economy that regenerates attention. It must save us time and create a social bond," writes Tristan Harris, co-creator of the Time Well Spent movement. In order to be able to ensure this freedom, it is necessary to be able to freely leave the global platforms, which prioritize for commercial purposes the content they disseminate, following the model of "the economy of attention" – without this imply breaking the interpersonal links that their users have built. This is not the only condition of course, but it is one of the conditions. Every forty seconds on average, we are asked for a new activity. Our attention is captured but also manipulated through the exploitation of our cognitive biases. If we want to move to the development of "digital ethical" behaviours, we must encourage platforms: it is essential to allow the strengthening of any form of viable self-moderation, as is the case in many forums and platforms of human size, which have populated the web since its beginnings, and which are based on moderation carried out directly by their community, involved and at this stage generally voluntary. The purpose of this amendment is to allow users of global platforms to migrate to other equivalent but decentralized services, while being able to continue to interact with users of other platforms. It is therefore an additional freedom that is proposed and that gives everyone a chance again. This objective would be achieved by forcing the giant platforms that prioritize content for commercial purposes, as already defined in French law, to become interoperable. Madam rapporteur, you wrote in the summary statement of your amendment to delete the provision adopted by the Senate that the issue of interoperability deserved to be dealt with more comprehensively and at European level. You therefore believe that the measures listed in Article 1 can be adopted at French level, but that this structural scheme must be treated in a European way. We agree with this possibility, however, convinced that the Secretary of State will propose to us later a systemic regulatory bill including this measure, we find it unfortunate that you refused to include it in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u203	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u204	It is unfavourable for all three; I let the Secretary of State develop the arguments that justify it. I would point out that the 'and' of the summary statement of my amendment means 'as well as': the issue deserves to be dealt with more comprehensively, as well as at European level, and not only at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u205	So it's a favorable opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u207	This is a re-reading examination, and the rapporteur's arguments are excellent: I do not always take the time to detail the opinions of the Government, but I will develop it. We had this discussion at first reading. I repeat that, according to the Government, the footprint of certain social networks and platforms on our economies and democracies is highly problematic; Systemic regulation must be introduced at European level. That is at least the position we stand for in European trade. Among the new constraints that we could impose on platforms, operability is an essential topic. However, it does not offer a solution to all the problems and it does not go without posing difficulties. I talked last week with American Internet regulators who doubted its long-term effect: their graphs show that it is difficult to know whether it would be favourable or unfavourable to Facebook. In any event, the subject deserves to be considered, in the same way as the question of data of general interest and the possible duplication of what exists in service networks of general interest, such as the obligation to open up and regulation. In the coming days we must launch a parliamentary mission with Mr Eric Bothorel on these issues; I believe that interoperability will be a central theme. The priority is to defend these subjects at European level, for obvious reasons of critical mass and force in the field of economic diplomacy – admittedly – vis-à-vis the United States. We need to make progress on systemic regulation and interoperability – as I said and repeated publicly, here and in the United States – and the European level is the most suitable to achieve this. [[Mrs Avia acquiesce]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is true that, as part of this bill, we are first moving forward at the French level: the subject seems to me to be both more urgent and less structural in a horizontal way for the whole sector, which justifies us taking initiatives. Obviously – I know that Laetitia Avia agrees – we will also have to make progress at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u209	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u210	I think it would be very interesting to move towards interoperability so that everyone has the freedom to move from one platform to another, but it is absolutely necessary to disconnect this issue from that of hate speech. Indeed, I do not see why it would be for the victims of these speeches to leave the platform where they are: this obligation seems to me a particularly inadequate response to hate speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u211	Ladies and gentlemen – and I would like to say that to Mr Latombe and Mrs Obono above all – giving you the floor again is a possibility for me, not an obligation. I will allow you to speak, but I would remind you that there is a rule in this House. It is my duty to ensure that it is respected, even if I did not vote for it – I know that I am hitting Members of the LaREM Group when I remind them. I ask you not to get upset when I signal you that you can't talk. Mrs. Danièle Obono has the floor because I'm nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u212	I appreciate it, Mr President, that you allow me to reply on a subject which we discussed a great deal at first reading. Our debates were not unnecessary. They have helped us to understand our proposals, as our colleague's speech shows. Interoperability is not going to solve all the problems in the fight against racist or sexist behaviour on the Internet, but it is a question of showing how the structure, operation and economy of the Internet favour this type of discourse. The rapporteur referred to the way in which associations established by algorithms used by search engines can serve the dissemination of hateful or sexist content. Secondly, this tool, far from being exclusive, will give victims the means to choose. It is deplorable that the current system makes them captive or captive, while the Internet should offer them the opportunity to go and come freely into the spaces without being attacked. I hope that our future discussions on these issues will lead to concrete progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u213	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u214	You are responsible for the construction of a Europe with variable geometry. Indeed, you felt that you could submit the bill for our consideration without waiting for the Digital Services Act to be passed, which the European Commission had asked you to do. On the other hand, with regard to interoperability, you feel that we must wait. By doing so, you do everything backwards: while only structural measures can limit the flow you claim to be fighting against, you entrust the power of police and justice to the platforms, because you have not been able to act upstream. I would then like to say to Mrs Pau Langevin, who often uses this image, that one cannot compare a person harassed on the Internet with a child harassed in a school, and that one would have to change school. In this case, it is a matter of giving the harassed person the opportunity to remain in his interpersonal universe on a large platform, while transferring it elsewhere. A child cannot attend two schools at a time. The representatives of the platforms tell us that this would encourage them to go in the same direction, because ethical behaviour eventually prevails. As such, it would be a lever. There is, as you have pointed out, a profound difference between the first reading, during which our proposal was rejected with one turn of the hand, and this new reading, but the two remarks that I have just made remain relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u215	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u216	Your gesture will save us time, Mr President, since what I am going to say now will be the defence of all my amendments on interoperability. Interoperability is the core of the topic. We are many here to think, like senators, that this is a solution, while the power that your text gives the platforms will make them even more difficult to regulate. Even if you do not share this observation, at least accept the drafting of the Senate, which is an incentive where yours is imperative. Send at least one signal to the platforms to make them understand that we are working to implement interoperability more or less shortly. It would be more effective to reinforce your message, Secretary of State, than to refer this question to later without telling us precisely when – even if we do not doubt your good faith. In this way, the platforms will be able to see the rather favourable consequences, in our view, of such a provision in terms of knowledge of moderation techniques, which must in the long run make them indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u217	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 107, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u218	In order to increase transparency and prevent operators from becoming censors of the web, this amendment proposes the establishment of a database of notifications in free and open format in order to enable citizens, decision-makers, researchers and journalists to have reliable and transparent information on the extent and nature of withdrawals following alerts sent to operators. It reiterates a recommendation of the report of the National Digital Council "Digital Ambitions: for a French and European policy on the digital transition" dated June 2015. The establishment of such a platform will ensure effective monitoring of the effectiveness of blocking measures by including metadata. Since the beginning of the review of this bill, we have alerted you to the risks of over-censorship and violation of freedom of expression. At your disposal, I would like to say that, four years ago, the Director General of Dailymotion claimed to censor certain expressions when they caused too much controversy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u220	Unfavorable opinion. These notifications contain a great deal of personal information that does not have to be made public. What the proposed law organizes is the transmission of information to the public authorities and the CSA. Researchers are represented in the Online Hate Observatory. As a result, they will have access to a certain amount of information, without prejudice to the protection of the data of users and victims who notify such content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u221	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u222	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u223	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u224	This is again, and this will not surprise you, a deletion amendment. Article 4 defines a little more precisely the role of the CSA in controlling hate speech on the Internet. This body will be strengthened and will have exorbitant powers. While the bill should ensure that the CSA does not exceed the limits of its jurisdiction, it will instead allow it to extend its missions beyond radio and television, as it will control the Internet platforms tomorrow. Yet, the APF is not immune to criticism. I would remind you, as I have already done in committee, that the Council of State condemned him in November to compensate the C8 channel for EUR 1.1 million, considering that the sanction that the CSA had imposed on this channel was disproportionate. It does not seem desirable to give ever more power and competence to a body whose independence is relative – I remind you that its President is directly appointed by the President of the Republic. All this is all the more regrettable because the purpose of the APF has objectively disappeared. It was created in a microwave world where the waves were a rare public domain and where frequency holders had to be regulated. What justifies the existence of this organism in the age of fiber optics and 5G? I would remind you of a basic principle: if the State can organise the supervision of the public service, it does not have to govern the private domain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u225	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u226	The exorbitant powers that this article gives the CSA make him a true censor of morality, while the impartiality of this institution is often questioned. When French people derail, speak hateful or illegal words, it is up to the justice to punish them. That there is an intermediary between justice and citizens does not make much sense in a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u227	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u228	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the CSA, in exercising its supervisory role, must take into account, in the interests of proportionality, the plurality of operators' models and the adequacy of their means to the needs of combating online hatred.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 152, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u230	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u231	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u232	You transfer to the CSA a quasi-judicial power, while half of the members of this body are appointed by the President of the National Assembly, the other by the President of the Senate, and its President is appointed by the President of the Republic. When it comes to the absolute dependence of political power, I don't think we're doing any better! And it is to her that we will entrust what is most precious, namely freedom of expression? There is something quite shocking about this. Secondly, the APF, which already does not have the means to carry out its current tasks, will not live up to the powers entrusted to it. The CNIL, on the other hand, National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, would have the means to ensure that the regulations that we adopt are respected. The establishment of an extra-judicial system is a matter of concern. I repeat, we hope that the quasi-judicial powers that you want to provide with the APF will be entrusted to a judicial authority. The APF cannot play this role. Beyond the permanent disagreements between us, hear our argument: it is not possible that a political body such as the APF, all members of which are appointed for political reasons and because of their proximity to the power in place, will be given as much power. That would be shocking and politically disturbing. I hope you don't make that mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u234	As I have just explained, the CSA does not deal with individual content: as a regulator, it is interested in the moderation provided by the platforms and the proper dimensioning of their means in this area. As such, it examines the number of moderators in place in each platform. One must be aware of a reality: although I have been working on this bill for two years, I am unable to know how many Twitter moderators there are. We do not have any body that can impose on Twitter an obligation of transparency on this matter and carry out a monitoring of it. The text will allow the APF to impose transparency and cooperation obligations on platforms, as well as to carry out controls and audits. On the other hand, the CSA will not be more interested in content on an individual basis than it is today. This role is within the framework of regulation, in accordance with the mission of the APF. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u235	Mr Philippe Dunoyer's amendment No 91 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u236	Amendment No 21 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u237	Amendment No. 154 of the Government, which is an editorial amendment, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u238	Amendment No 18 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u239	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u240	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u241	Article 4 provides that the financial penalty imposed on the platforms can reach 4% of their annual global turnover – I say 4% of their annual global turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u242	They can afford to pay for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u243	Such a measure seems to me totally disproportionate and therefore aberrant: for a company like Facebook, it represents no less than 2 billion euros. In Germany, the fine can reach EUR 50 million, which is already considerable. You will have understood that I am in deep disagreement with the text. With regard to measures of this type in particular, it is necessary to keep proportion and reason: excess kills the credibility of your speech and your bill. Proportionality, which is the very foundation of our justice, is being flouted here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u245	Neither the Council of State nor the European Commission have made a reservation on the quantum of the sanction set out in the draft law. Moreover, the 4% of turnover corresponds to a ceiling, bearing in mind that the penalty must be proportionate to the gravity of the infringement and to the operator who is the subject of a procedure or notice by the CSA. Proportionality is therefore fully provided for in the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u247	Maybe you misread the text, Mrs. Ménard. The penalty amounts to 4% of the turnover in the event of a systemic failure of regulation by an operator. Moreover, it does not apply to content by content, as in Germany; No parallel can therefore be made between the two countries. The text provides for a penalty per content only in its Article 1, with a ceiling of EUR 1 million. When we are, like you, in favour of French sovereignty and we are voting for laws, we must attach them with powers of sanction that are coercive enough for them to be applied. The sanction of up to 4% of turnover, which is contained in the GDPR – the general data protection regulation – will ensure the proper application of the law. It will of course have to be applied with the required proportionality, as the rapporteur has pointed out, but the threat must be sufficiently dissuasive for the platforms to introduce systemic moderation. That is the heart of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u248	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u249	It is important that French sovereignty applies and that laws are respected. Since we are talking about sanctions for digital giants, I would like to recall that the tax imposed by the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, on these actors has led to threats of reprisals from the President of the United States and to a diplomatic ballet in which we have taken a step forward and three steps backwards. I look forward to hearing how the Government will react when the President of the United States is indignant, through a tweet, at the €2 billion fine imposed by France on Facebook! Will he be able to enforce French sovereignty? We must be reasonable and provide for fines that we can bear. However, I very much doubt that the Government will assume the sanctions provided for in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u250	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u251	We must provide for sanctions and give us the technical and legal means to enforce them. This means that the institutions concerned must do their job, and that sanctions are indisputable. Unfortunately, your proposal is sinning for lack of credibility. The gap is complete between the amount of the sanction and the shyness of the structural measures you plan, since you remove all credible levers that could be immediately activated to stop the viral spread of hateful content. You have just explained that in the digital field, diplomacy had to be taken care of. In fact, Trump's threats in response to the very timid GAFA tax – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – immediately pushed you back. In today's position, particularly vis-à-vis the United States, the Government is unable to support confrontation at the international level. It is therefore not very credible when it strikes a sanction that we will not have the means to maintain in the event of a dispute and that we will not have the means to apply until our relations with the United States have evolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u252	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u253	It is incoherent to talk about sovereignty when, through this text, you give powers of police and justice to digital giants. Where is French sovereignty in this case? With regard to sanctions against US platforms, the US response to the GAFA tax prefaces how this text will be received. In addition, the Government has decided to use a basic decree to implement the directive on the provision of audiovisual media services, known as the SMA directive, and requires the platforms to invest 25% of their turnover in France: again, by imposing rules without having discussed them with the actors concerned, you will inevitably generate American reactions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u254	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 108, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u255	This amendment was adopted at first reading and then withdrawn by the Senate. I therefore present it at second reading, with the hope that our House will repeat its vote. It aims to make mandatory the communication of sanctions taken by the APF against platforms. Such a measure will only encourage operators, concerned about their image, to adopt good practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u257	We did vote on this amendment at first reading, but the Senate rejected it by making fully justified arguments, to which I am obliged to adhere. As advertising itself is a sanction, it cannot be automatic. It must be proportionate. Therefore, it must be decided by the APF. Advertising is one of the sanctions that the APF can impose, and we strongly encourage it to do so. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u259	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u260	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u261	It seemed to me that the Government had introduced a bill to promote the "name and shame", i.e. the public denunciation of companies with illegal practices. There is no other question here. Why should the sanctions applied to platforms only be made public in part? On the contrary, this communication must be systematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u262	Amendment No 146 of the Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u263	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u264	It is intended to delete paragraph 14, since entrusting censorship of a statement to technical devices would be tantamount to leaving the reins of freedom of expression to algorithms. We have repeatedly explained that this is not desirable, especially because algorithms will not be able to detect or judge grey areas. To the extent that the text targets platforms that mix massive content, moderators will be algorithms rather than humans: this will increase the risk of systematic censorship, overcensorship or self-censorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u266	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u268	I seem to have a systemic agreement with the rapporteur, since my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u269	I call Mr Straumann to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u270	It aims to encourage operators to deploy human, not just technical, means to prevent the spread of illegal content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u272	I fully share your objective, Mr President. The mobilisation of human resources is also one of the platform's obligations in terms of processing and moderation of individual content. On the other hand, the viral spread of content can only be avoided through technical mechanisms. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u274	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u275	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u276	I maintain the amendment, because human intervention will sooner or later be necessary to put an end to the virality of content. Leaving algorithms and machines to choose does not seem to me a good solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u277	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u278	It is intended to clarify the APF's mission of encouragement to combat the virality of certain hate content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u279	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u280	This has already been discussed on many occasions: the virality of violent and hateful content is seven times greater than that of others. However, the mechanism that we introduced at first reading was removed by the Senate, on the pretext that it was a general obligation to monitor. We therefore propose that the platforms improve their cooperation and prevent the mass rebroadcasting of content – in particular videos or images – identical or specifically equivalent to those withdrawn under Article 6-2, i.e. obviously illegal content. We want this to be encouraged by the APF, but not an obligation of means, as we decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u282	This issue has been the subject of lengthy discussion. This is an extremely important dimension of the fight against hate content: how can we fight against phenomena such as that observed in the recent case known as Noisiel, with the distribution of several thousand copies of a video on social networks? The European Commission says the state cannot demand widespread surveillance from platforms. However, the wording we adopted at first reading imposed an obligation of means on them: that is why it has been amended. The new wording you are proposing does not impose any obligation, means or result. This is a strong encouragement from the CSA to the actors it regulates with a view to finding ways to cooperate and effective solutions in the fight against the mass rebroadcasting of such content. The message went to the platforms: it is essential to find solutions. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u283	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 29, 57, 101, 126 and 28, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 57, 101 and 126 are identical. I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u284	With little illusions about the fate of this amendment and of point 28, both of which deal with interoperability, I shall simply say that they are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u285	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u286	It is intended to reintroduce the provision adopted by the Senate on interoperability, which is in line with the position that I have defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u287	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u288	This amendment by Frédéric Reiss, several of us co-signed, aims to restore the Senate's progress on interoperability by providing for common technical standards for interoperability between the various platforms, with a view to promoting the free choice and migration of users to one or the other. I do not want to repeat the debate, but it seems to me very important to reaffirm the will of the French legislator to work towards greater interoperability. If we have heard what you said earlier, Mr Secretary of State, about the need to carry out work within the European institutions and to achieve a common European vision, if we are aware that many of the issues we are discussing call for a comprehensive European response and strategy, and if you refer us to future European regulatory texts on this issue; as we are, here and now, in the National Assembly, we wish to reaffirm the strong will of the French legislator to work towards greater interoperability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u289	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u290	I don't have any illusions either... It is clear that your attitude is somewhat dogmatic, since what we are discussing is simply a measure of encouragement: it is not even an obligation of result or means. We simply propose, by repeating the drafting of the Senate, that the APF "encourage" platforms to find common technical standards for interoperability. You refuse it, even though you say it's the meaning of history. It's pretty pathetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u291	Mr Philippe Latomb's amendment No 28 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u292	Amendment No 140 by Mrs Laetitia Avia is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u293	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 59, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u294	Article 6 presents, in our view, several pitfalls in terms of guaranteeing rights. First, it confers on an indeterminate administrative authority a power of injunction. Since court decisions are already enforceable, it is not necessary to go through an administrative authority, even with regard to mirror contents. This enforceable force is accompanied by guarantees concerning the fundamental freedoms attached to it. This power of injunction granted to the administrative authority therefore seems to be a substitute for the powers conferred on the judiciary. And if this is not the case, it only complicates the procedure and makes it less clear. As a result, either this provision is unnecessary, or it offers fewer guarantees, the administration being by nature, and unless otherwise, hierarchically controlled by the policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u295	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u296	He partly agrees with what Mrs Obono said. There are already many mechanisms in our law to combat illegal mirror content and websites. Paragraphs 3 to 6 of article 6 are redundant in relation to other provisions already known to the judicial or administrative authorities. Did you check that all this was consistent? Are you sure there won't be conflicting provisions? Are you not giving several tools at the disposal either of the administrative authority or of the judicial authority, for which they are responsible? I find that this is not very clear, since none of the existing arrangements are planned to be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u298	Madame de La Raudière, these devices, I do not hide, have been developed with the services of the Ministry of Justice and with the interdepartmental delegate Frédéric Potier, who are the lead in the fight against hate sites and their mirror sites. There is now a legal vacuum, which prevents us from effectively fighting against the publication of a mirror site: each time we must re-engage the whole procedure, from sending the first letters to the host until the referral, which takes about nine months, before we can close such a site. Our goal is to fill this legal gap. We need such a mechanism to be able to fight effectively against mirror sites – and that always, of course, on the basis of a judicial decision and under the control of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u299	I have before me two amendments, Nos 166 and 139, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The Government's amendment No. 166 is being defended. Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u300	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will take this opportunity to express my opinion on the whole issue, even though I am much more brief on the two amendments I tabled to Rule 6a AA. First of all, I am pleased that at the end of the shuttle, we can come back to this debate, which began at first reading and continued in the Senate. I note that the Government has tabled amendments on this subject, and I am confident that they will be given a better fate than mine. Nevertheless, I regret that there are still some shortcomings in the wording you are proposing today. For example, it would be necessary to provide mechanisms to ensure that advertisers will be clearly informed of all the locations where their advertising messages will be broadcast, as well as of the truly opposable obligations between advertisers and sellers. I know that this issue can be addressed again in the context of the bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, which we will be considering shortly. Depending on what the Secretary of State will say about the possibility that we may possibly be offered to develop this, which is perfectable, in the context of future texts, I will be able to withdraw my amendments for the benefit of those of the Government. [[Smile]] It remains that if, tonight, thanks to the adoption of this device, even imperfect, the fascisphere was deprived of part of its recipes, you would put glitter in my day!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u301	And ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u302	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u303	If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to come back to my amendment quickly – I am sorry for this setback, but these changes are very recent. Amendment No 166 has the same objective as Mr Bothorel, but with some formal differences. In particular, we believe it is necessary to clarify that the list is accessible to advertisers, their agents and advertising intermediaries as defined by the General Tax Code, in order to make the entire advertising channel more accountable. We therefore propose some amendments to Mr Bothorel's amendment. Since, for legal reasons, it was not possible to table a sub-amendment, I invite Mr. Bothorel to withdraw his amendment in favour of that of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u304	Mr Bothorel, I see that you want to answer and I know that we are here as a family, but I still have to proceed with a semblance of order. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u305	Request for the withdrawal of Amendment No 139 in favour of Amendment No 166, which aims at the same objective, namely to combat funding by advertising hate sites, but with an improved wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u306	You have the floor, Mr. Bothorel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u307	I had referred to the withdrawal of this amendment and the next two, subject to hearing the Government's position on the two outstanding issues. I have not heard the Secretary of State on this point. Perhaps he will intervene later?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u308	Yes, earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u309	Since we are family, I trust him.I withdraw Amendment No 139, and I look forward to hearing his explanation of Article 6a AA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u310	It's beautiful, family spirit...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u311	[[Smile]] Sometimes we're happy to belong to someone else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u312	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u313	This amendment provides for the possibility of appeal in cases of blockage where there is a significant risk of interference with freedom of expression. The first reviews of the German law of 2018, which was often discussed during our debates, show in particular that the platforms, because of the financial sanctions, tend to overblock, that is to say, in case of blurring, they prefer to block information rather than leave it in place. In addition to the fact that platforms are expected to play a role normally assigned to public courts, this leads to a tendency to reduce freedom of expression. There is, however, no specific remedy at the present time to challenge decisions to block freedom of expression before a court of law that may violate existing guarantees of freedom of expression. Hence this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u315	Mrs Obono, I feel like I repeat for the fourth time that this amendment has nothing to do with Article 6, which does not concern platforms. Articles 1 to 4 deal with them, with Article 4 dealing more specifically with their control. This amendment is out of the question. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u316	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u317	I asked to intervene about this article because, as with the previous one, I admit to being stunned: we go ever stronger, ever deeper in censorship! Advertising advertisers are now targeted. If your text is adopted, they will have to publish the list of sites on which they pass advertising, according to the principle of "name and shame". Do you realize? Under the pretext of fighting hate content, but in reality in the name of good-thinking and politically correct, you are putting pressure on advertisers to dissuade them from publishing on certain sites. What are these sites? The Sleeping Giants, not to name them, have targeted sites like Boulevard Voltaire, media like Current Values or CNews! But if these media are hate media, why don't you start proceedings against them and shut them down?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u318	No, it's not against them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u319	Yes, I do! Sleeping Giants don't do anything other than what you're proposing in this article: putting pressure on advertisers to asphyxiate media financially, sites that don't have the urge to think as you would like or to disseminate information that you enjoy. If they're not hate media, we don't have to ban them. You have to let them do their job, that is, inform – perhaps not as you want, but that is the diversity of opinions and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u320	The freedom to incite hatred!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u321	I am really struck by the fact that today, in France, we vote without a state of soul – not very numerous in the Chamber, moreover – the musellement of this diversity of opinions. Frankly, it's amazing. I think I've said everything about tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u322	We'll see, Mrs. Ménard... I have before me three amendments, Nos 167, 135 and 136, which can be discussed jointly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u323	It goes in the same direction as the next two, deposited by Eric Bothorel. Since the discussion has been limited during the discussion of the previous article, I would like to return to it. Mr Bothorel, with this blacklist story, you want to move on in two directions. With regard to the first, we have at least found one common point: the publication of this list. I take this opportunity to refute Mrs Ménard's remarks: it is quite obvious that there is a plurality of political and media opinions, and that if advertisers publish tomorrow on press sites that are not in favour of the Government, for example Mediapart or Current Values, that will not cause me any problems. It's healthy, it's normal for democracy. You are doing, Mrs Ménard, as if this text, in spite of international and other regulations, were to allow us to drop sites that spread Nazism or child pornography. However, you know that this is not possible, for many reasons I will not come back to. When one of these sites is blocked by justice, it instantly reappears with a different extension. They must therefore be attacked in the portfolio; If an advertisement of such a large company is found on a site that promotes extreme ideas or so-called medical solutions dangerous to the health of the French, for example, this company bears the responsibility. Mr Bothorel, you therefore propose that the list of sites condemned by the justice system, or whose justice has sought to block the French version, be published, which will prompt advertisers to take an interest in the problem. It remains a question on which, for legal reasons, we have not been able to agree in the time allotted: that of intermediaries and sellers. I suggest that you continue to work on this, with a view to finding a solution by the time the bill on audiovisual communication is considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u324	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor to defend Amendments Nos 135 and 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u325	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the explanations I have just given, I withdraw my amendments. Mrs Ménard, let us not be mistaken: it is necessary to strike at the wallet people who distill hateful information, of which the Secretary of State has cited examples. I can even tell you that it is relatively healthy to bring some clarity to the online advertising market, which, when you set foot in it, turns out to be incomprehensible. I'm not the lawyer, I'm not the sellers, I'm not the advertisers, but you'll see that this accountability will make the world a little better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u326	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 167?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u327	Positive opinion, of course. I would like to return to two points. First, it is not a question of muzzling any site, but of being transparent. If the sites you are talking about, Ms. Ménard, are recommendable, there will be no problem with advertising. But if you're ashamed to publish advertising on a specific site, it's good because there's a reason, because this site is really a problem. Secondly, what has just been adopted is no longer the "name and shame" – in good French – proposed by the Senate, but a blacklist that responds exactly to your request, Madame Ménard. It will identify sites that are subject to a court decision and will therefore make it possible to target hate sites, which no longer need to be funded, including in their mirror version.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u328	Mr Philippe Latombe's deletion amendment No 42 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u329	Amendment No 61 by Mr Alexis Corbière is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u330	[[Caroline Abadie applauds]] He was in favour of that amendment. I thank its authors for their vigilance in the implementation of justice reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u331	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u332	As you have noted, Madam rapporteur, we are extremely vigilant about justice. The purpose of this amendment is to supplement Article 6a A by stating: "The Ministry of Justice shall ensure that sufficient resources are provided to the above-mentioned judicial court". We wish to recall that the judicial authority, already set aside by this text, must have sufficient means to effectively combat the dissemination of content that incites oppression and discrimination. Above all, it must have means commensurate with the power that this bill gives to the platforms. The lack of means could jeopardize the articulation adopted at first reading, in a wording that was not exactly the one we proposed but which was widely supported, between this court and the future platform for filing complaints online, the creation of which is provided for by the law of 23 March 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u334	Mrs Obono, the Government, by raising the pledge of the amendment that I tabled at first reading, has made it possible to create a digital prosecutor's office. This requires human, technical and financial resources. On the part of the Government, it is a genuine commitment to better prosecuting the perpetrators of online hatred. I leave it to the Secretary of State to complete these explanations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u335	Amendment No 84 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u336	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3, which seeks to delete Rule 6b.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u337	Like Article 6b(A), Article 6b is more precise. I am not sure that it is indispensable, that it is not superfétoire to add to article L. 721-2 of the Education Code that the national higher institutes of faculty and education must prepare teachers "for the fight against the spread of hateful content". First of all, common sense, which should prevail here, suggests that teachers can naturally raise awareness of these issues among their students. Secondly, the fight against hateful content should be the subject of a civic education lesson, for example. Therefore, this addition is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u338	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 4, 63 and 121, to delete Article 7. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u339	This deletion amendment is again due to the superfluous nature of the measure. The creation of an umpteenth entity, an observatory of illegal online content, under the authority of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, is redundant, whereas this observation should already be part of the missions of the same CSA, which is an independent administrative authority. You want to entrust to an out-of-court body the task of explaining what illegal online content is. Apart from the pleasure of creating an umpteenth observatory, I do not see the added value of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u340	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u341	It aims to challenge the Government. We are rather puzzled by his choices. On the one hand, it removes institutions, structures dealing with issues relating to poverty or child protection, on the pretext of amalgamating them to make them more effective – which is questionable, because they carried out concrete action on the ground in defence of citizens, children, and worked on many subjects. On the other hand, it creates others that do indeed often duplicate with existing bodies. The prerogatives that you assign to this observatory are already exercised by other institutions. The Judicial Union, among other things, is very sceptical about this measure, which creates an additional step between the content in question and the judicial judge, already set aside by this text. Moreover, as has been said, this observatory would be extra-judicial. This is not consistent with a government that wants to simplify and tends to withdraw powers from each other. This irrelevant choice will lead to the creation of an empty shell, and especially deprived of means. It is a pity that you did not pass our amendment asking for a report to define precisely the tasks and needs arising from your bill. When we make proposals to that effect, you reject them. That is why we wish to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u342	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u343	As it stands, the drafting of article 7 raises many questions. In a State governed by the rule of law, no observatory, though made up of individuals driven by the best intentions of the world, could replace the State by deciding whether content was lawful. This observatory would be a supra-judicial structure that would have a monopoly on morality, the definition of good and evil, hatred and love: it is not admissible. In a certain way, the situation highlights the paradox of our time, always quick to advocate a freedom with blurred contours, but struggling to find the broad lines of morality and ethics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u345	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u347	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u348	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u349	In general, we are hesitant to set up committees, whatever they may be. In this case, I am puzzled by the interest and purpose of this observatory, especially since it is placed with the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel. It seems to me that, without outrageously formalizing things, the CSA could open a commission within it to monitor the evolution of hate content. It should also be noted that, contrary to what has been said here today, the role of the APF is extremely useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u350	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u351	The appointment of its members by political leaders cannot disqualify it. To maintain this reasoning, the reproach would be cast on many other institutions, until the Constitutional Council. If we were to consider as discredited any institution whose members are appointed by the Speaker of the National Assembly or the Senate, we would deprive ourselves of a large number of institutions that are extremely useful to our country. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] On the other hand, since this text assigns new tasks to the APF, consideration will have to be given to significantly increasing its resources. For the rest, it is perfectly capable of providing objective and high-quality work in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u352	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u353	This is a fallback amendment, the previous one having been rejected. Since you are determined to create this observatory, the name "observatorium of illegal online content" seems to me more precise and adapted than that of "observatorium of online hatred", whose object is far too vague. I will not come back for the next time on the concept of a grey zone, but I ask you again how you define hatred. That is why I am proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u354	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u355	This is again a fallback amendment. If an online hate observatory were to be created, it should be based not on the APF, but on our judicial system. It is for the courts to decide whether or not a statement is lawful. An independent administrative authority does not have to judge what can be said online. This amendment therefore tends to add, after "researchers", "representatives of justice".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u356	Amendment No 102 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u357	I have before me two amendments, Nos 25 and 87, which can be presented together. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u358	By adopting this article, parliamentarians are supposed to endorse the creation of an "on-line hate observatory" whose composition and missions are not even known, since they will have to be specified by decree. You always push the plug a little further... It does not seem to me desirable to do so. Not only does this observatory not have to be, but how could Members be assured that it will be independent? How can we be certain that this umpteenth observatory won't be superfetoire? What will his missions be? Does the CSA really need to be the secretary of an observatory? This proposal seems to me to be a rough and insufficiently thought-out proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u359	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u360	I agree in part with you: there is no need to refer to a decree. Parliamentary debates, whether those in the Senate or ours this evening, have led to a satisfactory drafting of section 7. That is why I would ask you to withdraw Amendment No 25 in favour of Amendment No 156 from the Government, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u361	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u362	Same opinion. Amendment No 156, which will come shortly after, aims to ensure that the organisation and working arrangements of the observatory are laid down by the Higher Audiovisual Council. There will be no decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u363	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u364	I don't understand... Is it not stated that the CSA provides the secretariat of the observatory? How will he reconcile these two missions? We're not paddling anymore, we're totally swimming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u365	The Government's amendment No. 156 was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u366	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u367	Even though I also recognize that there is blur around this observatory, I am quite in favour of it, as I agree with the fact that it is placed with the APF. Everything is not yet very clear but, from a sociological point of view, the result will probably be less distressing than what is predicted. This amendment tends to re-establish a paragraph resulting from the work of the Senate and deleted in committee on the grounds, raised by the rapporteur rightly, that it was not appropriate to refer in the text to bodies such as PHAROS because they were not included in the law and that their name could evolve over time. That is why we propose, without mentioning the names of the devices concerned, to provide that, where national devices receiving reports of illegal online content exist, the Online Hate Observatory will have to work with them to fulfil its mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u369	You have faithfully traced the history of this paragraph, which explicitly referred to PHAROS when this body has no legal basis. I've been thinking a lot about your amendment. Article 7 provides that the Observatory shall involve operators, associations, administrations and researchers involved in combating and preventing such offences in its work. PHAROS, as well as the Ministry of Justice, are among those involved in the handling of alerts. The provisions of the text are sufficient for all the actors concerned to sit around the table to better understand these phenomena. The parliamentary debate allows us to make that clear. I therefore call on you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u370	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u371	Following these explanations, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u372	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 128, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u373	This important amendment tends to provide for a "sunset clause", or sunset clause, in the event of the adoption of a European regulation or directive within the scope of the law. This text concerns an area of competence of the European Union, which has decided to work on the regulation of platforms to combat hate speech or the dissemination of false information. The law for confidence in the digital economy, moreover, is the result of the transposition of a directive. In order to ensure a digital Europe, the rules applicable in each country should be harmonised at European level. If the European Union adopts a text, regulation or directive in this area, Mrs Avia's proposal for a law will lapse. It is therefore important to include this principle in the law so that the regulation of our country does not diverge, tomorrow, from that of the European Union, and does not over-transpose future European provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u374	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u375	Madame de La Raudière, I follow you to the last sentence of your speech. Your disposition goes without saying, since a European regulation, once adopted, has a direct effect. As for the directives, the mechanisms governing their transposition make it possible to bring national law into line with European law. On the other hand, I am not in favour of including this clarification in the law. Let's watch out for contrario readings. It is clear that national law cannot contradict a European text. If we specify this here, we will have to do the same for all the other texts, otherwise the consequences could be drawn a contrario from this gap. The principles of contractuality apply without the need to recall them. For these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion, even if we agree on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u376	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u377	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u378	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u379	I understand and share the arguments put forward by the rapporteur in order to avoid contrario readings. On the other hand, I would like to know whether the Secretary of State can commit himself this evening to national representation, in the event of a European directive in this field, to start transposing it as soon as it is published, without delay, in order not to end up with a directive awaiting transposition and divergent national rules. I understand the rapporteur's answer, but can the Secretary of State make this commitment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u380	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u381	I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur. That is true, the regulations are directly applicable and the directives have to be transposed. But it may be provisions voted on today, in a certain context, that will become overtranspositions, and then they will remain in the law! It is clear that it will not be easy to go back to what Parliament has voted for when a European directive is transposed. It is much simpler, in order to transpose a European directive with a constant right, not to have to embarrass itself with the existing law. This "sunset clause" would allow, when transposing a directive or in the case of a regulation, to start at the same level as other European countries. It would make it possible to stick more closely to the new European text, to limit divergences and to have uniform, seamless European rules in the digital field at European country level. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that you wish, in the long run, a seamless regulation between European countries, once the European Commission has made progress in its work, in order to develop the digital economy in Europe. This "sunset clause" is essential. You too trust, Secretary of State, the following governments and parliamentarians. I know this Chamber well enough to assure you of the importance of the "sunset clause". We must start from a blank page when transposing a European directive if we are to avoid overtransposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u382	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u383	In addition to the question of the adequacy of the national law that we are drafting with the provisions of European law, one question remains in our mind: that of the conformity of the proposed law with the constitutional provisions. As we come to the end of the debate, I would like to reiterate the remarks I made yesterday on behalf of the Members of the Republican Group: through you, Mr Secretary of State, we call on the Government – in a sense, but solemnly – to refer this text to the Constitutional Council, as the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have the option. There have already been precedents. It would be desirable for the Council to examine the conformity of the text with the fundamental principles recognized by the laws of the Republic. So, if you allow me, Secretary of State, I would like you to respond to this direct request from the first opposition group: does the Government intend to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u384	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u385	At this stage, it is not planned, Mr Larrivé: a decision of this nature is usually taken outside the Chamber, and not by the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs. This is something that should be discussed with the Prime Minister. In order to respond to the concerns expressed by Mr Latombe and Mrs de La Raudière, I could certainly commit myself to having any European directive transposed as soon as possible, but you know as well as I do that, given the contingencies of parliamentary congestion, transposition always takes time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u386	It won't be under this government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u387	As Mrs de La Raudière has mentioned, on the subject of European law, I am personally opposed to the directives and in favour of the regulations. If we are to allow our companies to grow, digital technology must be regulated within the single market, in order to avoid the presence of barriers too often put to use by some European countries which, playing the card of the least-so-called regulatory in many areas, are dumping against those who, for legitimate reasons, make the best choice, thereby distorting competition in the single market. However, it is difficult for me to commit to you without knowing the content of a directive which, by its very nature, will leave room for manoeuvre for States.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u388	There you go! We will have the same debate at the time of transposition. It would be better to leave a white leaf.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u389	To promise today to respect a "sunset clause" would be to make a paper commitment. I have given you my personal position, in favour of the harmonisation of legislation at European level; But since we do not know the content of this possible European legislation, it seems to me complicated to commit myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u390	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u391	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-22-O1125.u392	Next sitting, Tuesday, 28 January, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
