ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u1	The next item is the debate on development policy and international solidarity, with a view to the law of orientation and programming. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u2	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wanted to include in the agenda of the Assembly's monitoring week a debate on development policy, while in the coming months there is a review of the draft policy and programming bill. The context, as everyone knows, is that of a substantial increase in official development assistance – ODA. Indeed, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, we have, since 2017, respected the announced fiscal trajectory, which must lead us to devote, in 2022, 0.55% of gross national income to official development assistance. This increase in resources – both multilateral aid and bilateral aid – prompts us to reflect and anticipate the challenges and strategic objectives that must be those of our country in the coming world. That is why this debate must enable us to lay the foundations for this policy by offering each group the opportunity to present its vision of what France's development policy should be. This direction, let us say, is particularly expected by all countries and populations affected by official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u3	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u4	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has made considerable headway on these issues by hearing from many personalities and institutions, donors or actors on the ground. His work has enabled us to highlight the qualities of this aid and the projects it facilitates, but also – and this is what matters to us in this context – the gaps, shortcomings and improvements that must be made to ensure that our development assistance achieves its goal: to narrow the development gap between the richest and the poorest countries. During last autumn's budget discussion, the Committee's rapporteur referred to this subject in the following terms: "The increase in budgets is not enough for France's development aid to play its role. Its organization must also be reviewed in order to ensure that the money spent is actually directed towards the geographical and sectoral priorities defined in this area. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u5	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u6	It is these geographical and sectoral priorities that need to be addressed first. In this regard, the question often relates to whether official development assistance can be defined as an extension of a country's foreign policy or whether it should remain independent of such considerations. We believe, for our part, that the balance between bilateral aid and multilateral aid, as well as the strength of NGOs – non-governmental organisations – in these arrangements, invite us to go beyond this question in order to focus on the most urgent needs and on the coherence of France's action abroad, so that it can be sustained and projects can be completed. This requirement obliges us, for example, to pay particular attention to the southern border of our continent: in Africa – particularly in Sahelian and sub-Saharan Africa – we need to think about the policies that take over from our operations in certain areas to ensure their security. This partly responds to the question of the strategic objective we want to achieve. We have often repeated that the return of security and peace in this part of Africa will inevitably require an effort to recover the economies of the countries concerned, but also a strengthening of their State, administrations and public services. This applies globally to all initiatives undertaken in the context of public aid. This is, moreover, an already old and strong demand from political, associative and economic actors in the countries receiving official development assistance. This objective must therefore be realized in the next law of orientation and programming: the continuity between military engagement and development policy must be strengthened. The second strategic objective relates to the consolidation of States: we must give priority to our development assistance to States that need to be strengthened. It is then a question of supporting these countries in the construction of their public services, starting with education, transport – and therefore infrastructure – but also the construction of an administration. This requires training capabilities, which will be decisive – all actors have raised this need. France's contribution to development could thus be that of a country that is committed to sustainable development. We know that the topic of long-term project monitoring is regularly reflected in the criticisms sometimes expressed against official development assistance. We must therefore equip ourselves with tools that enable us to meet these needs while at the same time providing flexibility and speed of action. These considerations lead us to ask ourselves, lastly, about the steering of development aid. We know the often denounced threads on this subject: multiple actors – not to say plethorics – a weak steering, a loss of funding... All this is not part of the effectiveness that we are entitled to expect in view of the amounts committed. This is why the rationalization effort undertaken over the past several years must be continued. The signing of contracts for objectives and means with institutions and agencies must be an opportunity to set clear objectives for them. Again, this criticism is often, rightly so: local actors complain that official development assistance never reaches them in the proportions announced, and that, at the discretion of intermediaries and structures, the sums promised are reduced to a level of grief. We are all aware of concrete examples in this area. This, Mr Secretary of State, is an important phenomenon that often discourages the actors and despairs the people. On the other hand, in the context of calls for projects, the difficulty of the financial arrangements to be designed to coordinate aid from multiple actors and donors leads to many field projects never succeed or take an infinite amount of time. It is therefore more necessary than ever to lighten the millefeuille of actors and intermediaries in order to make our development aid more effective. Initiatives have already been taken in this direction, such as the reform of French expertise and the further integration of Expertise France within the AFD Group – Agence française de développement. Similarly, the issue of pilotage raises the question of the evaluation needed to ensure that the objectives we assign to official development assistance are achieved. These are some of the issues that we consider essential. I will mention one last one: that of the ever-increasing integration of local authorities and actors in the definition of objectives and means. In fact, the President of the Republic felt that we need to change the way we act in this direction, in order to move towards development agreements involving shared responsibility. That is how we can make our action sustainable for the benefit of the people. The future law of orientation and programming offers us an opportunity to strengthen our position in the world. Trust, which must underpin our entire relationship with our partners, must be accompanied by action that is becoming more effective and rapid. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups]] The multiple forms of this policy are a challenge for us and for those responsible for its implementation. We firmly believe that it can be the subject of consensus in this House. That is why it is important that we have time to exchange views so that our views can be converged. That is what the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u7	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u8	In 2014, the then parliamentary majority passed a law that was supposed to be a new step in France's development and solidarity policy. Jean-Pierre Dufau for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Dominique Potier for the Committee on Economic Affairs and Philippe Noguès for the Committee on Sustainable Development had accompanied the government at the time, including the minister responsible for development, Pascal Canfin, and his minister responsible, Laurent Fabius. This law was to be revised after five years of implementation – a revision that is somewhat overdue, given the busy work programme of our assembly. However, even if it has expired, section 15 of the Act provides that it shall apply "until the new programming law comes into force". The adoption of the new law, we understand, will take time, especially since the text must first be examined by the National Council for Development and International Solidarity, the CNDSI, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the EESC, the Council of State and, of course, the Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister thus told senators on 9 October last, in his statement on the migration policy of France and Europe, that they would be proposed to consider "in the year 2020" a new text aimed in particular at strengthening the role of local and regional authorities. At the plenary session of the National Commission for Decentralised Cooperation (CNCD) on 13 December 2018, the latter had warned that the commitments of the Interministerial Committee on International Cooperation and Development to "double financing through local and regional authorities" would be "private in effect if the subsidies provided by the State or the European Union continue to be included in the base taken into account in determining the amount of operating expenditure capped". A compromise seemed to have been found for some time, but the file has since been blocked, Bercy and Matignon not appearing to have decided to give in. In addition, only one session of the CNDSI was held in 2019, when it must, under Decree No. 2013-1154 of 11 December 2013, meet "at least twice a year", and even stand, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "three times a year" since 2015. The last plenary session was held on 23 January 2020. A new meeting, specifically dedicated to the draft law on orientation and programming on development policy and international solidarity, is scheduled for 18 February. Finally, it should allow a resumption of the long-awaited dialogue with civil society organisations on this law, which must reflect the government's desire to renew the legal framework of French development aid and international solidarity policy. That programming law would be all the more welcome given that the budget allocated to official development assistance remained a matter of concern. In fact, we had raised this point during the review of the 2020 budget, so far seems far away the presidential target of spending 0.55% of gross national income by 2022 – about €15 billion – and then 0.7% by 2025. By comparison, this rate was 0.43% in 2017 and 2018. As a result, many felt that the planned increases were insufficient to achieve the announced rates. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In any event, the deputies of the Socialist and related groups will be very vigilant and determined to succeed in the next law of orientation and programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u9	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u10	On 9 and 10 October in Lyon, donors gathered at the sixth replenishment conference of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria pledged over $14 billion over the next three years. This is unprecedented global solidarity, which should help save 16 million lives and end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria by 2030, in line with one of the UN's sustainable development goals. As president of the group on global health studies and president of the association of malaria neurosurvivors, I wanted to start my speech by recalling this event and also recalling that, without France's total commitment, such a level of pledges would not have been possible. This is a wonderful example of what we can achieve in terms of development and international solidarity when we are ambitious and we are giving ourselves the means to do so. More broadly, and beyond the question of our ability to lead the international community, it is indeed our policy of development and solidarity to live up to our international commitments and to contribute to the defence of global public goods such as health, the preservation of the environment, education and, of course, peace. The President of the Republic has repeatedly taken a position in favour of an ambitious policy in the field of international cooperation. We share his will and agree with the roadmap set by the Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development – CICID – in February 2018. Today, however, it is important that this ambition be fully realized in a new legal framework. In view of the new policy and programming law, expected for this quarter after multiple postponements and which raises many expectations, particularly from civil society actors, the IDU Group, Action and Independents would like to stress a few points. On the question of financing our ambitions first of all. A target of 0.55 per cent of gross national income for official development assistance by 2022 was announced and recalled earlier by one of the previous speakers. It is essential that the policy act now details budget planning and the means to achieve this objective. In 2014, by the voice of my colleague Meyer Habib, we deeply regretted that the policy and programming law that was then under discussion ignored the absolutely fundamental question of means. On the contrary, we were called upon to support the development of innovative financing such as the tax on financial transactions, an extension of the financial resources that local authorities can devote to international solidarity, corporate foundations or, for example, defied life savings in the area of responsible savings. To show and affirm a credible path, more precise than that of the road map, in order to achieve the objective set seems to us to be truly imperative. Another point I would like to address is the governance of this policy, both at national and local level. The approach to this policy must indeed be renewed, and we want a special emphasis on local and regional authorities. Within our territories, many actions and projects carried out by associations and communities deserve to be supported and enhanced because, in addition to projects, they are links between populations. I am thinking, in my city of Albert, in the Somme, in Labo'sciences, which works to equip laboratories in the high schools of Cameroon, and in the Children of Guinea, which wants to create a school in Dubréka. You know, Secretary of State, that I have a special attachment to the African continent. I shall therefore mention, in connection with this decentralised cooperation, the report by Mr Vincent Ledoux on the contribution of territorial actors to the African priority of French diplomacy. Three axes of the road map that it has defined can be complementary to our official development assistance: the revival of consular companions, the creation of social ties, in addition to the major diplomatic and economic initiatives, and the opening of the bodies for the coordination of external territorial action. They are a lever that we must now support and exploit more. Finally, and this will be my last point, on many occasions, and in particular during the budgetary debates, the lack of clarity and transparency of official development assistance has been stressed. Renewing methods and facilitating parliamentary scrutiny are essential in order to respond to these criticisms and increase public ownership of this policy. Let us hope that, in the same spirit as the CICID roadmap, the text that will be proposed to us is demanding in terms of monitoring and transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LT and LR groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have 10 years left to achieve the sustainable development goals. It's going very fast! The law of programming and guidance will therefore be strategic and, while inequalities continue to increase, will have to be fully consistent with these objectives. We will ensure that it is more readable, robust and bolder than the 2014 one. This, Mr Secretary of State, is the contribution that the IDU, Action and Independent Group wanted to make to this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u11	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u12	"There is nothing more misleading than the right intention, because it gives the illusion of being the good itself",...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u13	Victor Hugo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u14	... wrote Emmanuel Bove in his book Le Pressentiment, published in 1935. This quotation can be applied perfectly to our official development assistance policy, the intention of which is both praised and discussed. France is one of the few countries whose external assistance is based on both grants and loans at favourable rates, and is reflected in five priorities: international stability, climate, education, equality between women and men, and health. Discussed, because it is often illegible, seen by some as insignificant and covered by a multiplicity of actors – it has indeed twenty-four separate budgetary programmes, distributed among thirteen missions managed by fourteen ministries, plus contributions from several public operators, local authorities, NGOs, businesses, foundations, and others. However, the Arlésienne, which has become the draft law for the orientation and programming of the partnership policy of development and international solidarity, or LOPDSI, can legitimately feed some questions. On two occasions, technical elements such as the doubling of funding through local authorities or compliance with the "Cahors contracts" seem to have delayed consideration of this bill. In the latest news, it is expected to be reviewed in the second half of 2020. As a Member of Parliament for the ninth constituency of the French abroad, those of the Maghreb and West Africa, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, these technocratic delays seem incomprehensible and out of the ground in view of the urgency of demographic, climatic and security issues in Africa, and particularly in the Sahel. While the ODA mission had increased by almost 7 per cent, the Government had fallen behind its target of setting the share of ODA at 0.55 per cent of gross national income by 2022. To catch up with it, it would need to mobilise an additional €5 billion over the next two years. Globally, it is no less than $1,000 billion that should be invested in the SDGs, the sustainable development goals, to bring the world out of poverty. Moreover, our international ODA policy should never be dissociated from development programmes on the national territory. That is why I would like to see the aborted project of rapprochement between AFD, the Agence française de développement, and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – CDC – relaunched or, at the very least, strengthen the synergies between the two institutions, whose cooperation arrangements had been the subject of a strategic alliance charter signed at the end of 2016 for a period of five years. Bringing AFD and the CDC closer together means consolidating our development and solidarity policy in France and abroad. It is to create a KfW – Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, or credit institution for reconstruction – to French, which would be the first public development institution in the world. It is to give us the means of our ambitions. However, this desired rapprochement between two major financial groups must not exempt us from a more humane development aid policy, more in contact with the promoters of small projects. This is a complaint that is regularly made to us by NGOs, diasporas or local and regional authorities. From Bougouni, Mali, to Aurillac, a city I know in the Cantal, it must no longer be this inaccessible totem. Members of the Liberties and Territories Group measure every day how our local authorities have the capacity and willingness to support local projects through ODA. In general, I hope that France's external action and our ODA will no longer operate in silos, but rather act as an interdependent whole and as close as possible to the beneficiary populations. Let everyone understand what France is doing and giving, and how it is used locally. Culture, the arts, vocational training and education must no longer be the major forgotten areas of development policy. We will certainly win the military battle in the Sahel, but we must also sow knowledge where obscurantism has been rooted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] For example, our cooperation in the field of Francophones would be honoured to be less state-owned and to bring the governance of our French educational institutions abroad into the modern world. As the Ghanaian President so well said, "It is not fair that a country like Ghana, sixty years after its independence, continues to define its education and health budget on the basis of funding from the European taxpayer. Too often, we Westerners tended to love Africa, but not Africans. Today, however, the new generations want to take responsibility and take charge of their destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u17	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u18	A law of orientation and programming should soon come to us, which will renew the framework of the French policy of development aid and international solidarity. You will allow me this use of the conditional, because if Mr Le Drian repeats that this law is a priority for the President of the Republic, it will be recalled that it was already announced for the spring and then for the autumn of last year. We were also told that the increase in the official development assistance budget was part of Emmanuel Macron's commitments. I would therefore like to say here that the Government, which is always complacent in the accounting officer's costume, forgets too often, strangely, to adopt strict rules. In 2018, Bercy had postponed for the first time to the OECD Development Assistance Committee, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, nearly €400 million in Proparco's activities. This writing game, repeated since then, is lamentable because Proparco is guided more by the profitability of its projects than by their real impact on the improvement of the living conditions of the populations. The proportion of its funding allocated to strengthening financial institutions and markets is estimated at 46 per cent, compared to only 6 per cent devoted to health and education. I also want to go back to the link the Government claims to make between official development assistance and migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u19	Indispensable link!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u20	When Édouard Philippe says that he expects states that benefit from ODA "a high degree of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration", when he hammers out that it "must be mobilised in the service of our migration strategy", or when Amélie de Montchalin pleads that a significant part of the European Commission's ODA should be dedicated to migration issues, I can see that it is a pleasure on the benches of the right of our Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u21	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u22	Yes, but they don't do anything for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u23	...but, in reality, they both trample on the principles that must underlie our policy of international solidarity. The use of official development assistance for domestic policy purposes would always be tantamount to delegitimizing and thus weakening development aid policy. In the figures, this leads to reconciliations that have no place to be. The cost of receiving refugees is thus integrated into official development assistance, as is the health costs of migrants. We are talking about several hundred million euros – that's not nothing – that have nothing to do with ODA. The Government relies on the scale to artificially increase its encryption, but it is a manipulation that cannot fool anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u24	It's an international rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u25	The same technique had enabled Ms Schiappa to defend a budget of more than EUR 1 billion for equality between women and men by adding cabbages, carrots and all the rest of the vegetable garden. Finally, I am surprised that we have still not had access to the text of the policy and programming bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u26	We have the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u27	...because the first readings of the text seem to have highlighted the absence of a defined trajectory, which would still be a pity for a law that is intended to be programmatic. We will, however, wait to see the text, as well as the preliminary studies carried out by the EESC and the Council of State – we know the affection that the Government has for it at the moment. [[Alain David applauds]] However, I hope – and I will intervene in this direction – that this law will allow us to return to a policy of solidarity consistent with its founding idea: the fight against poverty, inequality and climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u28	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u29	After an incalculable number of rebounds, postponements, setbacks and endless suspense in the various finance bills, the famous law of orientation and programming on development and international solidarity finally arrives, one year late. The delay in the drafting of the text shows, first, the Government's low case of official development assistance and, second, how difficult it is to find a solution to stick to the presidential ambition to dedicate 0.55 per cent of French gross national income to ODA in 2022 and 0.7 per cent in 2025. The exact content of the future law, if not yet known, is revealed year after year in the debate on the finance bill. The choices made so far do not augur well for the rest. We therefore expect the future law to organise more precisely official development assistance in France, in order to ensure that social, climate and democratic objectives are commensurate with the challenges at international level. The main question to be asked is: why official development assistance? The first of the concerns of the Communist MEPs comes from the answer given to this question by the majority, who said that this aid should be used to combat immigration and to secure the border areas to the south of the European Union, particularly in the Sahel. We answer this question completely differently. As the famous climatologist Jean Jouzel in the Committee on Foreign Affairs once again said this morning, official development aid must now enable countries that have not yet experienced significant economic development to reach this stage without going through that of polluting development that has led us to the climate tragedy that we are experiencing. To achieve this goal, all means are good. Members of the international community must work hand in hand to imagine tomorrow's economic, social, democratic and ecological development. Multilateralism is a formidable tool that must be used to the best of its ability. For it to be perfect, it must have our preference, because we all work more effectively together than everyone else in their corner and in their area of influence. The greatest priority must be to imagine a colossal climate investment, so that industries in developing countries can benefit from the best clean technologies, that transport is as respectful as possible, and that social and environmental standards are as high as possible. The countries that will develop with this help will have lessons to give us so that we, in turn, will adopt this approach tomorrow. Yet – I was able to see this by visiting a large engineering school in the region – the many foreign students welcomed to France do not always have the means to implement everything they have learned here on their way back to their countries. Why? Because in many situations, official development assistance is not large enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u31	Instead of increasing the tuition fees of foreign students, it is therefore necessary to receive more, and better treat them, to make them benefit from our knowledge and infrastructure and then allow them to create innovative projects in their countries. On the ground, people must be helped and supported to improve education and health systems, to support democracy inflexibly, including by discussing political oppositions, in order to protect the environment as best as possible. Peace, the well-being of peoples and the protection of the environment should be the compass that guides our ODA. These are the paths that we could turn down much more intensively than today and that we will have to imagine if our planet is not to choke because of us. The trajectory of official development assistance in France, however, remains too low: the budgets voted since 2018 are largely insufficient to reach 0.55% of GNI by 2022 and to respond to the environmental emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC, LT and LaREM groups]] The Communist deputies therefore expect that in the future law, the financial trajectory of ODA will be as detailed and as credible as possible. Expenditure and revenue will also need to be specified; It will be an opportunity to discuss again the enlargement of the financial transaction tax. That is why the policy of development and international solidarity must be humanist and listen to those who capitalism puts aside or destroys.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u32	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u33	This is an important debate on our official development assistance, which, in a reassuring way, comes a few weeks away from the parliamentary debate on the law of programming on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. This translation into the law of the commitment made by the President of the Republic to devote 0.55% of our national wealth to development, and more broadly to propel a new deal into French development policy, as he has done since the beginning of his mandate, will be a highlight. This new situation is first of all financial: after a decline in budgetary appropriations since 2010, French official development assistance has been steadily increasing since 2017; In 2022, we will reach 0.55% of gross national income. The commitment authorities set out in last year's budget and in the 2020 budget are there to prove this. This commitment has been debated in the House, but beyond the financial path, we should instead focus on what will increase in the overall envelope for official development assistance and focus on the budget appropriations for this mission as well as on the resources of the Solidarity Fund for Development, i.e. those earmarked for the field. I turn to the second essential aspect of this new situation: the quality and effectiveness of our public aid. By 2017, the President of the Republic had drawn up a qualitative roadmap for our ODA. The aim is to gain innovation and intelligence, to use different methods and to give more responsibility to the actors present on the ground, so that this aid comes in a simple and effective way on the ground and is evaluated. These guidelines, which should guide the forthcoming parliamentary debate, constitute a real road map, validated two years ago by CICID and which profoundly transforms the use of resources mobilized for our official development assistance. Aid must be more bilateral – as we have all said here – which does not mean that we must neglect the multilateral dimension. France's major effort at the replenishment conference of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria was also recalled. The share of grants will have to increase sharply compared to loans, and be more oriented towards civil society. The allocation of our public aid will have to meet geographical priorities – the 19 poorest countries, all Africans except Haiti – and sectors: education and health, the fight against climate change, but also the adaptation of the poorest countries to this situation and equality between women and men. The fight against fragility is another priority, because if our development aid policy is to be effective, we know that there is an urgent need to strengthen governance in order to restore public confidence in public authorities on the ground, for example in the Sahel countries. Priority should be given to giving, to the poorest countries and to combating fragility: that was consistent. It is well known, for example, that the Sahel needs grants and not loans, and that it is necessary to combat fragility and invest in the social sectors. The priorities, as stated in the bill, mark the coherence of French official development assistance. I would also like to welcome the diplomatic impetus given, through these commitments, to development issues and, more broadly, to the achievement of sustainable development goals. As the President of the Republic showed a few months ago in Biarritz...,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u34	Very beautiful town!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... France owes its unique place in the world to its development policy, which is the foundation of its diplomacy. Let us remember that ODA is the only instrument for extra-national redistribution and that on a global scale it is the only instrument for global redistribution. France must therefore take all its part, because it occupies a singular place in the world, as its development aid policy strongly illustrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u36	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u37	I agree with the goal of allocating 0.55 per cent of our gross national income to official development assistance at an early date, as set out by the President of the Republic. This has to be increased considerably. We're changing times. I would remind you that the current President inherited a rate of 0.38% due to the collapse of development aid policy at the time of Mr Hollande.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u39	We were then fighting this policy, Secretary of State, remember that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u40	I have a very precise memory of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u41	This aid must therefore be substantially increased. We also need – and I agree with the previous speaker – more bilateral, more Africa, more attention to the nineteen countries that we regard as priorities. All this remains to be done: the main beneficiaries of AFD loans are still Turkey, Brazil and Colombia. There is a need to go much further in the list of beneficiary countries in order to find these nineteen countries. A remarkable job has been done by our colleague Hervé Berville. We will translate it into a text which I very much regret is coming so late. A programming law must be presented at the beginning of a legislature: the rules of a game are not established a few minutes before the end of it! We are already in the second part of the mandate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u42	[[Smile]] From the first warrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u43	[[Smile]] This will be decided by the French! We must have clear, ambitious targets – according to the trend, the increase would be 5 billion – and realistic: the Germans and the British spend 0.7% of their gross national income on ODA, so that's possible! Since taxpayers will be asked, the French must also be there. We have our own problems. I very explicitly wish, regretting that few colleagues have spoken about it, that businesses will find themselves there. Our companies do great things. I am thinking of the Moroccan TGV, due to the efforts of Moroccans, but also to our beautiful companies. I am also thinking of the TER in Dakar, soon to be in circulation, thanks to Eiffage's efforts. We should welcome those companies that have decided to invest in Africa for a long time, even though they are denounced by a certain press. Here I would like to pay tribute to the constancy of a group like Bolloré, who is not only present in Africa when it's okay, but also when it's wrong. I hope that Africans will know how to recognize it. There are some concerns about the Eiffage motorway concession in Dakar. It is the first in Africa, so it should not be called into question, because the concession model is the one that accelerates investment the most. I also welcome the new, smaller companies that are coming. I am thinking in particular of the company Piriou, from Concarneau, which will equip the Senegalese navy with boats, and I thank the Government for its efforts to ensure that this contract can be concluded. We want compensation in the area of migration; We must not hesitate to say it very explicitly. It is not normal for Mali, one of the most aided countries, a country where our soldiers are killed, to deliver only 10 per cent of the consular passes we ask for to expel its illegal citizens from our country – while progress is possible, as Niger demonstrates by issuing 81 per cent of these consular passes. Realistic cooperation is possible in order to avoid massive migration flows, so as to avoid destabilising entire regions – migration is indeed very localized in Africa – so as to prevent Africa from depriving itself of the elites it needs on the spot. I hope, therefore, Secretary of State, that the bill will clearly incorporate these elements. I also wish to ask the question of the tools used. We are fortunate to have AFD, a remarkable bank that is doing a remarkable job, as our ambassadors on the ground see. However, it is a bank, namely an organization intended to make loans. If we give priority to donations, is AFD the most suitable instrument? In addition, banks favour large projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u44	The ones that pay off, most of all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u45	In these fragile countries where there is little control, we need to be able to adapt to smaller projects. Here too, our diplomatic network must play its full role. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we are in a competitive position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u47	We are in competition with the Chinese, with the Russians... but also, we are not fooling ourselves, with the other European countries. Although the European Union intervenes massively, it forgets to say that France is the main funder of many European projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u48	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u49	Let's stop being naive. Let's be ambitious, let's do what we have to do. We did so on the occasion of the review of the 2019 Finance Bill – a very good budget –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u50	Generous...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u51	... while the budget for 2020 is much poorer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u52	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u53	[[Applause on several benches of the LT, MODEM and LaREM groups]] In any case, when we set ourselves objectives of this nature, shared by everyone here, or almost all of them, we must hold them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u54	All right, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u55	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u56	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for having requested the inclusion of this debate on the agenda. It is indeed appropriate that we be able to discuss this issue prior to the consideration of the policy and programming bill. Before I respond to the comments made by the various speakers, let me outline a few points. [[Applause on a few benches]] International stability is now threatened by the persistence of extreme poverty in some parts of the world and the proliferation of crises. These are rooted in the deep fractures of human societies, marked by widening inequalities, compounded by the effects of climate change and the progressive depletion of the planet's resources. In this context, the Government and the majority wish to redouble their efforts to address the root causes of fragility and conflict. France demonstrated this brilliantly during its G7 presidency, during which it made the fight against inequality the red thread of its policy. And, after two years of work under the authority of Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, after having been the subject of numerous consultations and receiving the recommendations of all the actors concerned, the draft law on the development of solidarity and the fight against global inequalities will finally arrive on the table of the Council of Ministers on 4 March and, hopefully, be examined by Parliament by the end of the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u57	Ah! All right! The report will be authentic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u58	The record of the debates will show that this is a hope on my part...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u59	So it's not a certainty...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u60	... and there is no doubt that the support of Members will always be valuable, especially since it is quite transparant. I have also noted that several interventions have been hailed regardless of where everyone wanted to plant his political and philosophical tent. We therefore join in pursuing ambitious development goals. The text in question will replace the law of 7 July 2014 and will mark the renewal of our international development policy, called for by the President of the Republic. To that end, the bill will provide for new methods – I will come back to that –, more partnership, and enhanced resources. In response to the comments on deadlines, we took the time to reach the right arbitrations: it was unthinkable for Jean-Yves Le Drian, as for myself, to present a copy that was not up to the stated ambitions. But we did not wait to act. Even before the presentation of the text, the various financial laws allowed France to increase its budgetary commitment to development. Our ambition is intact: to raise official development assistance to 0.55% of gross national income in 2022, which represents an effort of almost €6 billion over the entire quinquennium, after years of continuous decline between 2010 and 2016. Hubert Julien-Laferrière recalled, it had fallen by that date to 0.38% of gross national income. We have begun to raise this rate, which is now 0.43%. The table that will be included in the Policy and Programming Bill and the attached detailed table will be very specific and will allow for a fully informed debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u62	The target of 0.55% of gross national income was validated by CICID, chaired by the Prime Minister, on February 8, 2018. The main priorities of our development policy were then set: sectoral priorities, with climate and biodiversity, equality between women and men, education, health...; geographical priorities, with 19 priority countries – 18 located in Africa and Haiti. The idea was also that this additional resources would first benefit from bilateral assistance, in order to ensure that our priorities would be well followed up on the ground. Above all, and Marc Le Fur has come back to the numerical importance of loans, we wanted to increase the share of grants in order to further concentrate official development assistance in the poorest and most fragile countries. Starting in 2019, we committed an additional €1 billion to enable the Agence française de développement to start projects in priority regions and according to the thematic priorities defined. This unprecedented increase in our resources produced its first results: French ODA for the first time surpassed the 10 billion euro mark in 2017; It now accounts for 0.43 per cent of gross national income. This increase in resources has allowed us to increase our support for education, especially for the education of young girls. You remember that President Macron and President Sall both sponsored in Dakar, in 2018, the reconstitution of the Global Partnership for Education in order to devote ever more resources to this policy. We also increased the resources allocated to health, with almost €1 billion in ODA in 2018, 80% of which went through the multilateral channel. It is true that France is the world's second largest contributor to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, saving 27 million lives. It's a big deal. Last October, we hosted the Fund's replenishment conference in Lyon; On this occasion, France increased its commitment, which now stands at some €1.3 billion over three years, an increase of 20% over the last triennium. We are going to take a new – decisive – step with the bill being introduced on March 4th in Council of Ministers. This text will anchor the upward trend in appropriations to raise official development assistance to 0.55% by 2022 – which is only a first step, with a target of 0.7%. This will be the subject of Article 1. This represents a major effort from the national budget. That is why I welcome the opportunity to discuss it today: we must always better explain to the French the interest of development policy and its effects, which are too often ignored by public opinion. To sit in several local assemblies, I see that it is sometimes increasingly difficult to win the support of our colleagues when it comes to spending money on development aid. This is an important project. Alain David referred to the blocked case concerning the taking into account of State or European Union subsidies passing through local authorities. No: the file is released, as we have obtained the arbitration through which these grants will not be taken into account in the calculation of the operating expense cap, which cannot increase by more than 1.2% per year. A circular will soon be issued, and I would like to reassure you fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u64	Jean-Yves Le Drian and I were indeed very attached to it: we, like many of you on these benches, have this fiber of local elected. It was therefore important that communities should not be restrained in their momentum, but encouraged. They are, like NGOs, valuable channels and we wish to increase the resources available to them. With this bill, we intend to confirm the Government's choice to make development policy a pillar of our foreign policy. It is indeed an essential tool to defend our multilateral commitments – I am thinking of the 2030 Agenda, referred to by Hubert Julien-Laferrière, or the Paris Climate Agreement, to which we are so attached. Renovation of our development policy will strengthen the credibility of our political and diplomatic action, so that we can continue to mobilize the international community and build coalitions of actors. This way of doing things actually produces more results than many words, and we put it into practice on the occasion of the G7 which, I remind you, enabled Biarritz's partnership to promote laws in favour of women's rights, the launch of the Mukwege Global Fund for Victims of Sexual Violence, the adoption of the Metz Charter on Biodiversity... all of which we mobilize States, actors, to achieve results. Let us not be fooled: we have only a decade left to achieve the sustainable development goals – SDGs – that is, to make it known: if in this House we are well aware of the issue, we need our fellow citizens or even a number of mayors to take it. That is why we have developed a roadmap, with Élisabeth Borne and Brune Poirson, to raise awareness of the SDGs and, above all, to achieve results. [[Applause on many benches]] More generally, with regard to the method, we wanted the bill to strengthen the practice of partnership with NGOs, foundations, civil society, local authorities, the private sector and, of course, operators such as AFD or Expertise France. All of this shows that the way we design our action must lead us to a change of vocabulary. I would like to pay tribute to Hervé Berville's work in this regard. We can indeed applaud the very thorough and thorough work that has been a source of inspiration for the Government. It is now important to act in a transparent and equal relationship with our partners. Accordingly, the text will be entitled: draft law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. [[Smile on several benches]] This new method will be detailed in the context of the global partnership, which will serve as a White Paper on Development Policy and will be annexed to the bill. The law itself must remain in the domain of the law if it does not want to begin with the lightnings of the Council of State, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u65	Again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u66	We will therefore stick to what is covered by the law in the text itself, but we will attach a number of useful elements that will serve as a compass to our development policy. You will, of course, also have to discuss these annexes. Mr Joncour and Mr Demilly referred to the steering and governance of our development policy. We wish to strengthen the architecture of this pilotage to ensure that our main operators are aligned with the priorities set by the Government and debated in Parliament. This is essential to maximize the impact of our message. This will involve a number of novelties. For example, ambassadors will be able to convene a development council to put the "team of France" in order on the ground. This development will also result from the work of the Development Council of the President of the Republic, of CICID, chaired by the Prime Minister, of a number of bodies that we meet with Jean-Yves Le Drian, and from their declinations to the development council around each ambassador. The accountability of our development policy, which will be the subject of clause 2 of the bill, is a major issue and a democratic imperative. Many programs are subject to peer review and analysis. I would point out that France has been the subject of such a review. I say this for Mrs Autain, who has called into question the fact that refugees are included in our figures: we are only applying the international framework set by the OECD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u68	It is always necessary to clarify things because, in our time, rumours and sometimes partial information can lead to misappreciation. I'm going back to accountability. Under the Constitution, Parliament is also responsible for evaluating public policies. From now on, the Minister responsible for development will report annually, in the autumn, to the relevant committees, on the implementation of the strategy for this policy and on the use of the appropriations that you vote each year. In addition, the law will provide for a robust evaluation system, with strengthened means, by setting up an independent development policy evaluation committee attached to the Court of Auditors. That way, things will be clear and transparent. This will be a sign of a new ambition for development policy. Europe has been mentioned by some of you. It is true that the European Union is currently rethinking its foreign and development policy in order to increase its visibility and adopt a more strategic approach. With a new European Parliament and a new Commission, things are moving. The EU's new single instrument for neighbourhood, development and international cooperation, the NICI, will be the main force of European foreign policy to implement concrete projects on the ground. France ensures that this new tool takes into account two priorities: enhancing climate and environmental ambition, and strengthening support for Africa and the least developed countries. When we put in place a single instrument, there is indeed the risk that we will have less visibility on the precise use of credits – those of neighbourhood and development, for example, could be mixed. The new DG DEVCO of the Union – Director-General for International Cooperation and Development – who was in Paris at my invitation a few weeks ago, I believe, of course, that we are also insistently defending within the Councils of Development Ministers. In the same spirit, we hope that the Green Pact, announced by Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, will have a strong external dimension, which requires a mechanism for carbon inclusion at borders, and that the climate will be taken into account in trade agreements. We regularly discuss trade agreements with Mr Lecoq: we have finally obtained that the Paris Agreement becomes an essential clause. On this point, we were at the forefront a few months ago – it's a modest way of saying that we were isolated – but we were joined. We are pleased that environmental ambition can be part of trade policy. The relationship between the Union and Africa must be the result of a balanced partnership. I note the new name of the competent European Commissioner, who is responsible for "international partnerships". This is part of our new relationship with our African partners. A new page is written. This new approach will be that of the next Africa-France Summit, to be held next June in Bordeaux. I believe that this will be an unprecedented summit in terms of method. I am thinking, for example, of the city of solutions, which will make it possible to highlight the right solutions imagined by Africans or French people for the sustainable city. It will certainly be a very beautiful laboratory...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u69	...democracy! That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u70	After the G7 which has largely addressed development issues, and after the Africa-France Summit, our country will still be at the initiative of several international meetings. This will be the case at the World Congress of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature in Marseille next June. We also want to be able to reach an ambitious global framework for biodiversity protection at COP15 Biodiversity in China next October. There is still the Génération Equality Forum, held in Paris in July with UN Women, twenty-five years after the Beijing conference, which will reaffirm and strengthen women's rights in a number of areas. COP26 Climate, Glasgow, in November, will be essential as the Paris Agreement provides for increased nationally determined contributions in 2020. I will not conclude without addressing, since the House, a friendly wink to all the members of CNDSI, the National Council for Development and International Solidarity. Since 2017, we have been working together a lot, especially on the preparation of the bill. We will review this on 18 February before the Economic, Social and Environmental Council takes a decision on 25 February. You see that we are concerned that our copy will be examined under all seams, and if necessary enriched. Be aware that with Jean-Yves Le Drian, we have spared no effort to chart the way for an ever more partnership and effective development policy, on which we intend to report to you, national representative! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I thank you for your time today to discuss such an important subject, which we finally have too little opportunity to discuss in the Chamber. This is a precious moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to questions. I would remind you that their duration, like that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u72	The Government has had several occasions to express its ambition for development policy and international solidarity; of course we can only subscribe to it. Today I would like to ask you about the subject of training, particularly vocational training. It is often somewhat forgotten in terms of development and international solidarity, or confused with aid deployed to the essential part of education, which complements it but differs from it. Training assistance must be spread over time to ensure that it is carried out properly. This type of support, for example, takes the form of scholarships or grants of any kind for students and trainees from targeted countries. We all know the benefits of these schemes on employment at home, in France, but in the Sahel countries in particular, they are subject to an unstable security situation, or simply in the least developed countries, which are suffering from poverty, they are obviously all the stronger. Training can adapt to the specific economic needs of a territory, integrate into a market and develop it to promote prosperity. An expanded and comprehensive framework for cooperation with friendly States could further integrate training as a means of development and solidarity. That would be a boon for all the actors. It is also a recurrent demand from actors on the ground, and it allows for long-term development. I said that a "extended and in-depth framework of cooperation with friendly states could integrate training even more", as France is already promoting training tailored to the labour market, with a view to strong, sustainable and inclusive growth through the 2017-2021 strategy for education, vocational training and integration. Mr Secretary of State, what will France's vocational training and integration policy be, and how can we develop this vocational offer so that it can be adapted to the needs of the labour markets of the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u73	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u74	Our work on vocational training and integration depends mainly on AFD interventions. In 2019, the latter spent almost €337 million, more than half of the total assistance in the training, education and employment sector. I would like to give you a few concrete and talking examples. Burkina Faso has received budgetary support of EUR 15 million for technical assistance for vocational training policy. A EUR 150 million loan was granted to Morocco for the training and economic integration of young people in three regions. Also in the Sahel, for example, in Chad, EUR 14 million was allocated to support the training of small informal entrepreneurs. We need a continuum. Once the training has been delivered, the young people concerned are intended to integrate into the local economy, either by integrating the formal sector or by leaving the informal sector. It is then, Ms. Autain, that Proparco has a role to play in setting foot for a number of individual entrepreneurs – the private sector does have a role to play in the continuation of vocational training. The Ministry of National Education is also working with the former international centre for pedagogical studies, now France Éducation International, to technically support vocational training systems. [[Mr. Hervé Berville applauds]] We also wanted to use the French Presidency of the G7, at the joint meeting of ministers for education and development held in early July 2019, to adopt, with the G5 Sahel countries, a charter of commitment to better articulate actions in support of vocational training in partner countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u75	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u76	My question is about a tool for cooperation and development that is not sufficiently developed and invested: the Platform on Natural Disaster Displacement, an organization that France, together with Fiji, has been chairing since 1 July. This timely organization created after COP21 aims to improve the protection of displaced persons in the context of climate change and the proliferation of natural disasters. To date, it is composed of eighteen States and two international organisations, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration, and the Platform must make proposals to address the challenges that the world's 140 million or so climate displaced persons may face by 2050. Mr Secretary of State, I had questioned the Government before the G7 of Biarritz so that this matter could be placed on the agenda, and I would like to ask you again: in your opinion, what priorities could France give itself in order to succeed in this co-chairing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u77	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u78	Terminology can be controversial: rather than refugees, we can speak of climate displacement – an authoritative term. In any event, know that France is mobilizing itself on the subject. As part of COP21, we launched the EUR 18 million Climate Risk and Early Warning Systems initiative, which aimed to build the capacity of early warning systems for least developed countries and small island developing States. You rightly pointed out that in July last year France took over the chairmanship of the Platform on Disaster-Related Movement hosted by the International Organization for Migration. We call for greater ownership of these issues and for the UN Secretary-General to prepare a biennial report analysing the risks to peace and security posed by the impacts of climate change on different parts of the world. We noted that Parliament was also looking at this issue, as evidenced by the introduction of a bill to better anticipate the displacement of populations affected by climate and environmental change. We are taking your lights to continue this commitment, which, I repeat, has been translated, since 2015, into almost 20 million euros and the French Presidency of the Platform on Disaster-related Travel. We intend to keep the course because, as we can see, these realities are, unfortunately, always more daily and sometimes affect our national soil: by visiting Saint-Martin with the Prime Minister, I have found that the problem of climate displacement can affect us directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u80	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u81	From 4 to 6 June, the Africa-France Summit will be held in Bordeaux. The 54 African Heads of State and Government, elected representatives of the territories, civil society organizations and all African and French economic actors with projects and solutions are invited to participate to build the sustainable city of tomorrow and to respond to the challenges of urbanization. This summit is a great opportunity to exchange on achievements, and more broadly to create links and develop new political collaboration and economic partnerships between Africa and France. We are fully involved in the multiplication of the levers of cooperation that I mentioned recently in my speech, and whose strengthening I wanted to strengthen: cooperation at all levels, on all subjects and in all territories. In view of this summit, Secretary of State, I have three questions. First of all, to what extent will France participate in the Abidjan meetings on sustainable cities at the end of February, which should make it possible to prepare for the Africa-France summit at best? Can you tell us what message will be conveyed by our country on this occasion and the concrete repercussions that you expect from it? Finally, as you know, an anti-French feeling is developing, particularly in Mali; What will be the impact on the organisation of the summit?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u82	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u83	The Africa-France Summit, to be held in early June 2020 and to be devoted to the theme of sustainable cities, will be an important moment. We've been preparing it upstream for several months. For example, I participated in a series of works in Marrakech. This summit represents an opportunity to meet the elected representatives of the African continent to identify good practices. The General Secretariat, led by Stéphanie Rivoal, mobilized all the posts so that innovative solutions introduced in Africa would be exposed to the city of solutions. We have chosen the theme of sustainable city because by 2050, almost two thirds of humanity will live in cities, and 95 per cent of the future urban growth will be in developing countries. France will therefore look with interest at the work of the Abidjan meetings. As far as anti-French sentiment is concerned, we are not fooled by the instrumentalization that is made of it by certain actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u84	There are also facts! We support a dictator!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u85	France takes a fresh look at its relationship with the African continent – a relationship that it wishes to build on an equal footing and taking into account concrete achievements on the ground. We dare to hope that the Africa-France summit, focused on the actors of the sustainable city, will allow African public opinion to change its focus on France. It will host nearly 500 African and French exhibitors, at parity, and will allow to undertake many work within the framework of the City of Solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u86	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u87	I have only one question, and if you can't answer it right away, I'll be happy to receive your answer in writing. I would like to know how much the increase in grants will be in the next Official Development Assistance Programming Act. I would like to remind you – we are a few experts in this House – that from the point of view of the amount of grants for development aid, France is the penultimate OECD country. This is obviously a strategic issue. For the moment, only loans are made; often, as countries do not repay, the debt is cancelled and the sum is reclassified as development aid. Since the arrival of Emmanuel Macron as President of the Republic, the increase in the budget for cooperation is mainly due to the resumption of debts, linked to migration policy. Indeed, the trust fund for Africa amounts to EUR 1 billion a year, compared to barely EUR 2.5 billion for direct development aid. In recent times, we have shown a great deal of misunderstanding about the recovery of debts – we must not exaggerate, it is not development aid! –, and you change a little orientation; So much the better, we did the right thing to demonstrate! Nevertheless, the increase in aid mainly concerns support to the private sector, not grants. When you came to the responsibilities, official development assistance accounted for 0.33 per cent of GDP; The target is 0.55%, but for the time being there are no direct donations. How will the share of donations increase, which alone would make it possible to commit to supporting infrastructure and services?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u88	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u89	French aid is largely made up of grants, which accounted for 77% of our bilateral and multilateral funding in 2018. We are the fourth largest donor in the world, ahead of Japan, and the fifth in all financial instruments. Between 2017 and 2018, our bilateral grant funding increased by 4%, in line with our commitments. Our objective in this area is clear: half of the state subsidy effort and two thirds of the subsidies implemented by AFD must benefit the nineteen priority countries. Here are some figures; They will not exhaust the subject, but will bring interesting milestones for Parliament. In 2017, the non-loan ODA mission – that is, grants – amounted to €2.177 billion. In 2022, it will amount to 4.5 billion euros. Donations – which are only part of our overall development aid – are more than doubling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u90	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u91	I will not go back to the many criticisms expressed by my colleague Clementine Autain: the fact that a company such as Proparco receives public money for development aid, when it is essentially a matter of earning profits; development aid should be conditional on clauses on migration control, down from the principle of solidarity which should guide public action; that the financial volume of development aid will tomorrow be artificially inflated to cover military operations. No, my speech will focus on what should be an ambitious development policy – in your words – a long-term policy for developing countries. Colleagues, many of you must remember the President of the Republic's communication operation with singer Bono and Association One, where he promised to significantly increase France's action with the poorest countries. According to the OECD, an additional €6 billion would be needed to keep the presidential promise to raise ODA to 0.55% of GDP by 2022. By comparison, some of our neighbours, such as Norway, Denmark or Luxembourg, spend 0.7% of their GDP each year. France must break with its colonial past, forge and nurture new relations with countries that, tomorrow – I am thinking in particular of the African continent – will be the demographic and economic lung of the planet. Mr Secretary of State, to revise and increase our development aid, to update the list of beneficiaries and not to use it as a pretext to unfairly compete with the still fragile economies, would that not be to think and build the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u92	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u93	You're talking about a lot of things, Mrs. Rubin! As far as Proparco is concerned, I persist and sign: it is important to have tools to develop micro-entrepreneurship and to help young people build their future. This position is consistent with what I am going to say about immigration. Official development assistance is neither conditioned nor linked to immigration; it excludes any such consideration. On the other hand, who can think that young Africans take the roads of exile for freedom routes? No, these are often the roads of necessity – and necessity is law, alas – that lead them to damage themselves in the cemetery that has become the Mediterranean. We do not want to resolve this; That is why we are seeking to provide answers to the root causes of the fragility of the starting States. With regard to the fiscal trajectory, since 2010, under both the right and left majorities, ODA has been declining steadily. We got to the low point of 0.38%; Since then, we are gradually trying to straighten the bar. Today, we are at 0.43%, and we want to reach 0.55%. It is a budgetary effort that deserves to be welcomed! We could go beyond the cleavages to recognize that we were present at the signing of commitments, so that the payment appropriations would also be there tomorrow. [[Smile]] In any case, your question allowed me to find that France could sometimes rely on the Luxembourg example. It's a novelty for me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u94	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u95	As my colleague Gabriel Serville is absent, I will ask his question, to which I join. Most of the increase in funding for our national development and solidarity policy does not benefit from bilateral project aid, but from economic and financial aid, that is, mainly for loans – this has already been stressed – whose logic is that they favour emerging, more profitable and more secure countries than poor, highly indebted countries. However, the objective had been to allocate two thirds of the cumulative average increase in commitment authority under the Finance Act to the bilateral component of ODA by 2022. But your government follows a reverse logic, as this share drops from year to year. This is worrying in several ways: firstly, because we already know that at the current pace, we will not be able to reach the level of commitment promised by the President of the Republic to development aid by the end of the quinquennium; above all because it speaks volumes of your vision of international solidarity – a solidarity that is often interested and at the service of an agenda that links development and immigration. This is all the more worrying because, contrary to the general trend in the European Union, our country is spending less and less of its aid on priority countries: 23% this year, compared with an average of 37% in the European Union. Not only do we spend less on those who need it most, but we also do so in a logic of loan or return on investment. In the framework of the law of orientation and programming, can we hope for a paradigm shift, or will you persist in this counter-productive dynamic of always favoring the least poor?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u96	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u97	Yes, Mr. Lecoq, we're going to change paradigm. You describe a situation that has existed in the past, but we are working to change the distribution between loans and grants, to the benefit of the latter, as between multilateral and bilateral aid, to the benefit of the latter. It's really a change of logic. It is not a question of throwing the baby away with bath water: loans can have their place among the instruments since they are accompanied by technical expertise and political dialogue, designed to ensure that they are used effectively, and that the objectives are achieved. It was thanks to a loan that France, through AFD, was able to support the creation of the largest solar power plant in West Africa, in Zagtouli, Burkina Faso. The operation enabled 660000 Burkina Fasons to access a clean energy source, promoting the country's economic development while respecting the environment: nearly 26000 tonnes of CO are saved each year. To sum up, we agree with your diagnosis and we have already turned the bar to effect a change of direction that will produce its effects over time. We are determined to take this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u98	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u99	One of the sectoral priorities of French ODA is the access of all young people to basic education, followed by vocational training, higher education, research and innovation. The employability objective is at the heart of our policy of solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, in line with Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goal 4, namely "ensuring access for all to quality education on an equal footing and promoting lifelong learning opportunities". France is strongly committed. At the bilateral level, this includes projects led by AFD, embassies and civil society. At the multilateral level, this requires contributions to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the World Bank, the European Union and the Global Partnership for Education. My first question concerns education assistance, which is currently under-visibility. Aid to education is inflated by scholarships and school fees, while it is difficult to know the concrete impact of the scholarship's contribution to the development of the countries of origin of the recipient students. How will the future law of programming and guidance for solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities improve the visibility of aid for education, which will need to be strengthened? My second question concerns the "Bienvenue en France" strategy, which responds to the challenge of the international attractiveness of French higher education. The increase in registration fees for extra-community students is relevant provided that they are part of a comprehensive and redistributive strategy. Will the future law sanctify the announcements made on the tripling of scholarships and exemption from registration fees, targeting priority countries? My last question is more global. While more than 265 million children are out of school and we expect 440 million young people in the African labour market by 2050, how will the future law guarantee young people in partner countries access to basic knowledge and continuing training, which is a universal right and the best bulwark to fight unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u100	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u101	Education is indeed a priority of our cooperation: France is the third bilateral donor of this sector to which it devotes about 13% of its ODA. This priority will be reaffirmed in the law. AFD's interventions in the sector have already seen a very significant growth since they have more than doubled in the last two years: €640 million in commitments in 2019, compared to €282 million in 2018. Three quarters of these commitments have concerned the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, which illustrates our geographical priorities. We have strengthened our involvement with UNESCO and the Global Partnership for Education, of which we have become the fourth lessor. France now has a strong and heard voice. I would like to acknowledge the work we are doing with the teams of Alice Albright, Executive Director of the Global Partnership for Education. We look forward to welcoming some of its teams in Paris for the past few months. We defend the quality of learning through dedicated programs, such as the Education Systems Analysis Program – PASEC. We also pay greater attention to the schooling of girls, especially at the secondary level. In the G7, we launched the "Priority to Equality" initiative, which aims to provide technical assistance to integrate gender into all educational policies in the countries of the G5 Sahel, Mozambique, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. The aim is to have a national capacity-building instrument. You are right, scholarships and school fees are an important part of the budget flows, which corresponds to the desire to attract students from all the countries of the world eligible for ODA. The "Bienvenue en France" strategy has made it possible to increase the number of scholarships so that the least fortunate students can continue to study here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u102	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u103	Health and equality between men and women are two main priorities of the quinquennium and must be given a prominent place in the future programming law. To strengthen both of these causes, France must focus its efforts on maternal and child health. Indeed, the World Health Organization – WHO – estimates that more than 19 million children worldwide do not have access to basic vaccines, while an estimated 1.5 million deaths per year are due to diseases that could be prevented through vaccination. Among these victims, women: every two minutes, a woman dies of cervical cancer. As you recalled, two major events to be held in 2020 will enable our country to base its ambitions on the subject: the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) Global Alliance for Vaccines and The effectiveness of support for GAVI is no longer to be demonstrated: this alliance has made it possible to vaccinate 4 million young girls against uterine cancer since 2013 and to halve the mortality of children under five years of age since 2000. Does France intend to renew its contribution of EUR 250 million at the conference next June? The upward trajectory of funding that should be included in the future programming law should, in fact, encourage us to focus our efforts on global health issues. Organized in Paris, the Génération Equality Forum will give our country the opportunity to assert its leadership on global initiatives for gender equality. Does the Government intend to use this opportunity to launch an initiative on child, maternal, sexual and reproductive health, as committed by the President of the Republic last October?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u105	The two topics you are talking about are important. The Forum Génération Egalité, to be held in Paris between 7 and 10 July 2020, will launch a new coalition: France, Mexico, UN Women and civil society wanted a central place to be given to sexual and reproductive health. As far as vaccination is concerned, you are right: GAVI has achieved results since its inception in 2000, since 760 million children have been vaccinated, which has prevented 13 million deaths. The organisation has a budget of approximately $9.4 billion for the period 2016-2020; It must mobilize an additional $7.4 billion at the June conference. The goal is to vaccinate 300 million children, save 7 to 8 million more lives during this period. France is already the sixth contributor for the current period, with a commitment of 465 million euros, because global health is one of our top development priorities. During a speech in Lyon, the President of the Republic announced that France would be at the meeting for GAVI. At this point, I cannot tell you any more, but France will honour itself by being present for this major event.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u106	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u107	Some 90 per cent of young people live in a developing country and mostly where education services are of low quality. For example, 127 million children and adolescents were excluded from education and 250 million were unable to read or write. Promoting access to education for young generations, especially young girls, is therefore a major challenge for the future of these countries. A few months ago, on the occasion of World Francophonie Day, the President of the Republic addressed the Académie française and laid the foundation for the official development assistance programme. In particular, he wanted France to "reaffirm its strong commitment to education, in particular the education of young girls who are receding [...] in all areas where terror is rising and where obscurantism is trying to take over today", particularly in Africa and particularly in the Sahel. We must therefore take initiatives in this area and go further than we currently do. The Udin-Santini Act of 2005 allowed local authorities to finance decentralised cooperation actions in the field of water and sanitation, up to a ceiling of 1 per cent of their budget. Two other laws extended the 1% scheme to the energy sector in 2006 and to the waste sector in 2014. This 1% scheme could now be extended to the field of education, and each territorial community could then initiate initiatives in its area of school competence: schools for municipalities, colleges for departments, and lycées for the regions. This would also support the work of the many associations involved in the education sector. The forthcoming bill proposes an extension of 1% in the field of transport. Of which act. Are you ready to work on an equally important extension in the field of education?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u109	As I said in reply to Marion Lenne, education is clearly one of our priorities: France is the third bilateral lessor of the sector after Germany and the United States; AFD's credits doubled in 2019; We committed ourselves to the reconstitution conference of the Global Partnership for Education, which took place in February 2018 under the chairmanship of President Macron and Senegalese President Macky Sall. We are currently working with the Global Partnership for Education teams on a daily basis. You propose that local authorities can contribute to this effort. Jean-Yves Le Drian and I are former parliamentarians, and we will always be attentive to the amendments that will be presented here in the National Assembly. Our logic is to facilitate the intervention of local communities. The bill already includes an article that will extend this possibility to the transport organizing authorities who wish to do so. Although I cannot commit myself because the arbitrations have not yet been carried out, I believe that your proposal deserves to be considered with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u110	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u111	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u112	By setting the ultimate goal of raising ODA to 0.7% of gross national income – GNI – with an intermediate rate of 0.55% by 2022, France is failing to fulfil its duties and ultimately to itself. International solidarity is our duty of humanity vis-à-vis the hundreds of millions of men and women among the poorest, with whom we maintain historical, cultural and sometimes even blood-borne ties in the name of our freedom; It's an ardent moral obligation. Let us set the goal of increasing French ODA to 1%. Our British friends have already exceeded 1%. We can; We have to. This is why new and innovative financial tools need to be mobilised as quickly as possible. In particular, I call on the Government to amend and expand the financial transaction tax. We are many Members, from all the political groups, to ask you to do so during the budgetary debates. With regard to the strategic directions, I suggest that the Government introduce into the future policy and programming bill a policy of development and international solidarity specifically aimed at countries bordering the overseas communities, in line with the policy implemented with the Union of the Comoros in 2019. We could, on the one hand, solve more effectively some of the difficulties faced by the overseas communities and, on the other hand, promote the regional integration of the areas concerned, as well as their harmonious, comprehensive and sustainable development. Finally, with regard to the tools for the implementation of official development assistance, there seems to be a need to reflect on the format and distribution of competences of the cooperation network, which is steadily shrinking, particularly within the cooperation services in embassies. Over the past ten years, the Court of Auditors, as well as various parliamentary reports, has also questioned whether the objectives of official development assistance policy could be misused. I can therefore only approve the proposal to set up an independent evaluation committee placed at the Court of Auditors. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the interest that a parliamentary fact-finding mission on human resources management could have in the cooperation network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is in all modesty that I invite the Government to incorporate my remarks and proposals into the policy and programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u113	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u114	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u115	You have, Mr. Kamardine, addressed many subjects! Let us start, if you will, by looking at where we are going in terms of budgetary commitments: official development assistance was 0.38% of GNI in 2016; It will increase to 0.55% by 2022, before reaching the 0.7% target. The rate of 1% may indeed be a medium- and long-term objective, but we can already be pleased that the direction of the curve has been reversed. As you know, as far as ultramarine territories are concerned, AFD is also involved. Its new strategy is based on a comprehensive and regional approach, particularly in the Indian Ocean, in relation to interventions in States bordering our overseas territories. As for your assessment of your vows, it will be engraved in the marble of the law. The establishment of an independent committee, the secretariat of which will be provided by the Court of Auditors, will enable Parliament to be fully informed. With Jean-Yves Le Drian, we will report to you every year on the implementation of the law on which you have been asked to rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u116	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u117	The President of the Republic has said this and repeated: in 2022, France's official development assistance is expected to reach 0.55% of GNI. It remains to be seen how this money will be used. This is what the 2014 revision of the Policy and Programming Law on Development and International Solidarity Policy, which we have been awaiting for over a year, should specify. If education, climate, equality between women and men and health are frequently mentioned as the future main axes of our development policy, then migration issues, especially when they concern Africa, must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u119	Indeed, with growing migration pressure and an exponential demographic curve, Africa is rightly concerned. In 2050, it is estimated that the continent will have 2.5 billion inhabitants, while Europe will have 450 million ageing inhabitants. According to Stephen Smith, an African expert, 42 per cent of Africans aged 15 to 25 say they want to leave Africa. In other words, if solutions are not found quickly, the demographic pressure will, obviously, rise with increased migratory pressure. In his speech on France's migration policy before the Senate on 9 October, the Prime Minister explained: "I am convinced that official development assistance [...] must be mobilised in the service of our migration strategy. Yes, it must be part of a relationship of mutual commitments with our partners! He added that we "must assume to make official development assistance one of the instruments... of a general migration policy conceived by our country." Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what commitments you have already demanded from our partners, in particular with regard to consular passes, but not only, in order to better control migratory flows to our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u120	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u121	Development policy and migration policy are two distinct policies. Both are the subject of a sustained commitment by the Government. With regard to development policy, we have chosen the path of fiscal recommitment to achieve results on the ground. We seek to deal with the frailties of certain countries which lead young people, in a fine morning, to take the "roads of necessity" that I mentioned earlier to join the European continent. There is therefore no better response, in reality, to Africa's migratory pressure than a development policy based on actions in education, health and governance. As far as migration policy is concerned, I repeat, it is a separate policy. The Government, including the Minister of the Interior, is very active in encouraging our partners to improve the issuance of consular passes, and the results of this work are beginning to be felt. The number of consular passes issued is increasing as a result of our regular consultation work. I would stress, however, that development policy and migration policy are two different policies. Some of your friends have broached the Global Pact on Migration, adopted in Marrakech, conveying misconceptions and totally irrational ideas. On the question of migration, on the contrary, we must try to look at things in the face. It must be dealt with in the context of joint work between the States of destination, the transit States and the States of origin, each of which is often the three at a time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u122	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u123	The next item is the debate on pension reform. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u124	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u125	I am speaking on the basis of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure on the fixing of the agenda for our work by the Conference of Presidents. The office of the special commission to examine the draft law establishing a universal pension system and the draft organic law on the universal pension system had just announced that it would not be possible for it to consider all the amendments tabled within the original deadline, including if it met on Saturday and Sunday. If that were to be the case, we would be discussing, in the Chamber, from Monday, 17 February, unamended bills. We call for the Conference of Presidents to meet in order to change the agenda of our work and for the deadline for the examination of texts in open session to be postponed, which would allow the Special Committee to continue its consideration of the amendments. Of course, the majority claims that it is the number of amendments tabled by the opposition that makes it impossible for them to be examined by the committee. Let me note that the LaREM Group has tabled 322 amendments and that if the other eight groups in the House had each tabled an equivalent number of amendments, it would have taken 20 days for the committee to be able to consider them all. So there's no obstruction! The Conference of Presidents simply did not allow enough time to examine such important texts. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I therefore ask that the Conference of Presidents meet and decide on a new timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u126	I have taken note of your request, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u127	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u128	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, who has been sitting on the special committee on pension reform for a short week, I have asked a lot of questions; But I have received very few answers from your Secretary of State to the many questions I have asked. I therefore take the opportunity of this debate to ask you, hoping to obtain answers instead of the silence they have aroused so far. First of all, in your reform, how will the rights currently constituted be converted into points for generations born after 1975? This matter is referred to an order; National representation can therefore only question itself. How, then, will you finance the transition period? I understand that neither national representation nor the Council of State nor this morning the European Commission have any idea. For the generations born before 1975, during yesterday's question-and-answer session, we obtained a response from the Prime Minister. Contrary to what has been said so far, these generations will be well affected by pension reform. Of course, they will gain nothing, but it is not their own; What is specific to them is that they will see their base and contribution rates evolve without benefiting from new entitlements. Can you confirm that? How many French and French people will be affected and what will be the consequences of the reform on their contributions and earnings? How do you reconcile the slogan "a contributory euro gives the same rights" with the redistributive objective of a social system which must, with equal contributions, give more right to a worker with low wages than to a worker with high wages and possibly a longer life expectancy? The typical cases presented by the Government suggest, in a surprising way, that all the managers would benefit from the reform you are considering. Since nothing is included in the bill on this subject, the subject being again referred to an order, what can you tell us about the fifteen years of transition between the current system of public servants and the future system? How do you explain, minister, – although we have had some elements of answer in today's excellent edition of the newspaper Le Monde,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u129	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u130	...under the acerbic pen, sharp and warned of the many economists who have analysed your impact assessment – that the impact assessment is based on an age of balance of 65 years in 2027 when the Prime Minister has provisionally withdrawn this provision and that the social partners are supposed to decide its future? Does the Government make fun of them by betting on the return of this age measure, or does it make fun of Parliament by biasing the debate, because even without the pivotal age in the short term, the impact study should be reviewed from bottom to bottom? We'd like to know. Similarly, what about family and marital rights in the future pension system? The Government had just entrusted Bertrand Fragonard with a mission on the subject. Again, one wonders: either this mission is a decoy, or it is the parliamentary debate that is meaningless. Have you really built your reform on the basis of a partial and partial impact study, closely accounting, limited to the area of pensions, while the reform will have a significant impact on unemployment, wages, income distribution, public expenditure in the broad sense and GDP? We would like to know the macroeconomic and social consequences of the reform at each stage of its implementation. Clearly, not informing national representation can only fuel suspicion about the actual intentions of the Government or, at the very least, about the consequences of the reform. Can you also tell us how we should use the standard cases presented in the impact assessment? They were all developed on the basis of a pivotal age of 65 years from the 1975 generation, including for the 1990 or 2005 generations. But we know that the pivotal age will change: the results will therefore be quite different and the reform will be essentially losers. Can you tell us how we should use the assumptions made by the Government to compare the effects of its reform with what would be the evolution of the current system? You took the lead in extending the 2014 reform beyond what the law had planned and you made an amazing assumption about the evolution of teachers' remuneration and purchasing power, talking about "an increase in the share of bonuses in remuneration by 0.23 points per year". How do you think replacement rates will change? According to the impact study and the Council of State, the number of pensioners will increase and the share of pensions in GDP will decrease.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u131	Please conclude, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u132	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I have many more questions to ask, Madam Minister, but I will stop there. I hope that you will be able to provide us with the precise answers that will enable us to decide on the reform of pensions in full consciousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u133	[[Smile]] It's going too fast! She didn't have time to write down all the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u134	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u135	Our compatriots are attached to the French social model and to its pension system, which is the key to it. But they are aware of the shortcomings of this system: its complexity, with its forty-two schemes, the existence of special schemes whose justification is no longer obvious, the inequalities in pension levels, the diversity of reversion schemes, the insufficient consideration given to penitibility and split careers. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group believes that systemic reform is necessary to move our pension systems towards a universal, point-by-point system, a proposal that I have defended in the course of the consideration of social security financing bills for several years. However, it must be noted that, despite two years of cooperation, there will rarely be so much concern about reform. The consultation and the discussions that accompanied it did not allow the Government to build trust with the French around this bill that you are presenting, Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u136	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u137	However, we still believe that it is possible to save this reform, if you accept that the time for negotiation with the social partners, in the framework of the financing conference, is a real sequence of consultation, a sequence that opens up the time needed to establish the conditions for a sincere and lasting financial balance in our pension system, without forcing Parliament to adopt this text without knowing the details of the financing of the reform, and if you also accept that the time for debate in Parliament is a real sequence of improvements, amendments and enrichment of the bill. If it is a lesson that can be drawn from the deplorable episode of the rejection of my colleague Guy Bricout's bill last week, it is that in a parliamentary democracy like ours, it is not totally incongruous that the Government trusts not only its experts, but also the elected representatives who sit in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u139	As surprising as it may seem, it is not impossible for parliamentarians, including outside the majority group, to make a useful contribution, through their initiatives, to the drafting of a text by amending it and making their contributions to it. On such a fundamental reform, the Government would spare no time for the assemblies to examine the text rigorously and constructively, enabling it to be completed in the direction of the greater justice that you are seeking. Nor would it lose time to involve Parliament, and this time in a real way, in the development of the most technical provisions referred here to the orders: your bill refers to twenty-nine orders, divided into twenty-three of the sixty-four sections of the text. How could parliamentarians, in the face of so many orders, escape the feeling of an elusive debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u140	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u141	They could do so all the less as the Council of State stressed how inadequate the impact assessment – although provided – appeared for some of the provisions. The conviction of our group is that, on such an essential text, we should be tempted to restrict parliamentary scrutiny of its provisions, that is to say, to promote a stalemate in the debate and, of course, obstruction, even though this reform of pensions should allow us to address and find solutions to fundamental problems affecting the lives of our fellow citizens. Thus, this reform must provide an opportunity to further protect the purchasing power of pensioners by fighting against precariousness and by revaluing small pensions. We therefore welcome the guarantee of a minimum retirement pension of 85% of the SMIC. This ambitious reform of our pension system is just as necessary to respond to the ageing population and to the changes in our society, when we are experiencing new forms of entrepreneurship and wage-earning, and even new family models. In addition, we need to further secure the situation of people with short or split careers, especially women who often sacrifice their working lives in order to provide for the education of children. Other points deserve further consideration, such as the assessment of penitibility, particularly for independent professions, which do not have a professional preventive account. On the other hand, with regard to retirement age, our group proposes to work more to leave earlier, by extending the weekly working time to 37 hours, or 20 more minutes per day, which would ensure that the retirement age is not extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u142	That's a beautiful ineptitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u143	Finally, we hope that the pensions of caregivers, who care for a disabled child or a parent, will be valued; You know that our group is sensitive to this topic. On all these issues, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will be at your side, Madam Minister, to build a sustainable and fair regime, and it hopes that the Government will be able to listen to it in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u144	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u145	Since the beginning of the consultations, the Government has emphasized that solidarity is at the heart of its pension reform, that it wants to build a more just, supportive and equitable system. Therefore, the Libertés et territoires group, which is very attached to a system of distribution, solidarity and redistribution, has carefully looked at the mechanisms of solidarity provided for in the draft law, with a question in mind: will the future system really be more supportive, especially for those with a low pension? Of course, a minimum pension is provided for in the future scheme at the level of 85% of the SMIC. This is an important commitment to improving the current situation. However, we are wondering about the double condition that will be imposed in order to benefit from it, since it will be necessary, on the one hand, to comply with an insurance period obligation of 43 years and, on the other hand, to retire at the expected equilibrium age of 65. Is this dual condition not likely to apply to the detriment of people with a long career with low incomes? Moreover, why wait until 2025 to raise the minimum pension for agricultural non-employees from 75% to 85% of the SMIC, whereas on average their pensions do not exceed 750 euros, well below the poverty line? Finally, let us remember that the minimum contribution now amounts to 970 euros, which greatly relativizes the scope of the proposed measure beyond farmers and self-employed people. Second question: will the future system be more supportive of women? Their pensions are nearly 40 per cent lower than that of men: reducing this inequality must therefore be at the heart of the reform. The key mechanism of the bill is to allocate for each birth a 5% increase in the points acquired by the insured at the time of retirement, for only one of the parents, with an additional 1% being allocated to each parent with at least three children. The advantage here is well understood: it is to compensate for career loss from the first child. Nevertheless, it should be remembered that today two schemes complement each other: on the one hand, an increase in quarters from the first child – four quarters in the public and eight quarters in the private sector – and, on the other hand, a pension increase of 10% from the third child for each of the parents. The reform provides that points will only be increased if the insured has acquired a minimum number of points, defined by decree. At present, however, we do not have an indication of this minimum number of points, although this is a strong condition for the scope of the device. Thus, even if the increase in the pension comes from the first child in the new system, I fear that the scheme will be unfavourable for the parents of three or more children, both in terms of the increase in pensions and the possibility of early departure. Finally, will the system be more supportive of caregivers and persons with disabilities? This is a key issue since disabled workers have a lower employment rate than the rest of the population, and the approximately 8 million people who support a family member who loses their autonomy do so at the expense of their careers. The expectations are therefore immense. In our view, and I stress this point, we need a different understanding of the situations of caregivers because they are not the same depending on whether they are helping a disabled child or an elderly person, depending on whether they are 18 years of age – that exists, I am thinking of those young people who are accompanying their parents – or 60 years of age or older, depending on whether the assisted person benefits from the disability compensation benefit or not. The strategy for the mobilization and support of family caregivers, presented last autumn by the Government, has led to several advances. Thus, as of October 2020, indemnified care leave will automatically be taken into account for retirement entitlements. But only 60% of caregivers work. What will happen to all people out of work? The same applies to persons with disabilities, whose career paths vary according to the age at which the disability is manifested and by the occupation carried out. The responses must therefore be multifaceted and adapted. However, this reform causes many concerns for persons with disabilities and family caregivers. If, in general, the existing arrangements will remain almost unchanged, what about the end of the quarterly increases for parents of disabled children and for caregivers? What about the full retirement age? As for the new scheme – the increase of points for the periods of support –, its modalities are further specified by decree; It is therefore difficult to know what the real impacts are. Finally, while the reform that we are currently examining in the Special Committee presents some interesting progress, solidarity schemes are still largely perfect if we really want to establish a fairer and more equitable system. It is up to us, parliamentarians, to enrich the text from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u146	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u147	In the Republic, the people are the only sovereign. You persist in wanting to force retirement at points as the French vomit your BlackRock reform! They told you this by protesting, dancing, singing, depositing their tools and work uniforms, they told you in the polls and in the strikes. But fortunately, the government spokesman, Sibeth Ndiaye, explains the reason for this undemocratic coup de force, saying to Bourdin: "Retirement [...] is the last part of your life. It is both a moment of happiness because you say to yourself: I am free from work, but it is also a moment of anguish. We know that there are many heart attacks, diseases that occur, especially in men, when one stops activity because there is a kind of small vacuum that is created. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u148	[[Smile]] That's why you're staying, Mr. Goasguen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u149	Ah, so the Government is doing this pension reform for our own good... towards and against us. So he just wants to protect us from disease and death! Well, it's rare for me to say it, but you're right, Madam Minister. As the talented comedian Albert Meslay said: "Retirement is very dangerous. The numbers are here. The mortality rate is much higher among pensioners than among the active population! Retirement, no one gets out alive. And besides, he even made a modest proposal: to put at the bottom of all the country's retirement bulletins in bulk, in bold, and framed in black "retirement kills". So thank you to your government, President Macron and Members of Parliament The Republic on the move to protect us from so much suffering. Finally, what better way than to avoid this very dangerous moment of retirement when death awaits us, than by dying directly at work? Retirement would then be a right reserved for the dead, which would have multiple advantages. The first would be respect for your famous financial balance. Secondly, it could also be noted that the deceased, having no basic needs such as shelter, food or heating, would all be equal and their dignity would finally be respected. A certain advantage would be, especially for you, that the dead are silent citizens, against whom you will not have to use truncheon, prison, lie or contempt; In short, they are exemplary citizens and always agree with the Government. I even add that retirement for the dead, at the time of a generalized loss of sense in our society, could be the new paradise on earth after a hard life of labor! Young people could no longer dream of being a millionaire, but when they retired, at the cemetery... and the idea of the distributed pension system, the idea of solidarity, would end up six feet underground, forgotten by all the French. Retirement for the dead is your reform! The best example is the sewerers, because they have a healthy life expectancy of 17 years below the average of the French and, in the current system, they leave, because of the hardness of their profession, at 52 years, while you offer them to leave at 62 years, when they are dead! Who will then want to do this extremely important profession for the public safety of all? No one! It would be good to remind Mrs Sibeth Ndiaye and the entire Government that what kills in France is not the right to a dignified retirement, it is not the hygiene of life as the rapporteur Nicolas Turquois likes to say, but the policies you continue to pursue. Today, what kills in France is long-term unemployment: 14,000 people die each year directly. And removing the unemployed from unemployment benefit will only worsen this tragedy! Today, what kills in France is accidents at work: at least 500 people die every year. Today what kills in France is penitibility, and your government has decided from the beginning of the legislature to remove four criteria of penitibility, including heavy loads and exposure to chemicals. Today, what is killing in France is poverty and precariousness, and you know very well that the point pension will plunge hundreds of thousands of pensioners into poverty, as all the international examples of this system show. Because if we live longer, it's just because we work less! The decline in working time in the week, in the year and in life is the real progress! What's the point of working longer than the time it takes to produce what we need? Productivity has increased to the point where a French employee produces three times more today than in the 1970s. It is true that the employees who worked on average nine days free of charge to fill the pockets of shareholders in the 1980s, are now working forty-five days to spoil these same shareholders! No, it's no! We can no longer afford this world of misfortune, which aims to spoil the rich and the pension funds ever more. We want to retire at the age of 60 at a full rate. This is our future horizon. We are entitled to this liberated time, to this new age of life that allows rest, intellectual research, travel or associative engagement and during which one can devote oneself to his friendly and family life. [[Alain David applauds]] It is against your world of misery that the people rise! It is to this world of solidarity that we aspire!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u150	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u151	Your bill is worse than what you announced, minister. You had announced a pivotal age at 64, which was temporarily withdrawn. In fact, in the text tabled in the House, there is a retirement age at 65 years. You guaranteed that we would spend 14% of GDP on our pension system. In fact, with the bill, this share will rise to 12.9%. This would be the first time since 1946 that it would fall, even though the number of elderly people in our country is constantly increasing – and this is a chance! Still, it is necessary to live up to this progress in society; It's far from yours. Instead, you administer a bitter potion whose ingredients are particularly indigestible: a decrease in the amount of pensions for a large number of French people because of your new method of calculation – based on the worst years instead of the best today – and a postponement of the retirement age to 65 years or, for difficult jobs, to 63 years, compared to 60 today. This bitter potion, the French don't want it! They tell you in mass, and it takes on an unprecedented dimension: have you ever seen so many different professions united against a reform? Have you ever seen lawyers swing their robes, hospitals drop their coats, teachers throw away notebooks, firefighters put down the helmet, sewerers throw away their work tools, executives also express their anger? And there are so many more! I don't forget high school students and cultural actors. Sixty days of mobilization! It's historical! Our country has never experienced such a strong, determined social movement. However, you insist on maintaining your law. What is more, you handle the baton as rarely did our democracy. Police violence has never been so numerous, doubt being cast on the orders given by the hierarchy. Nor have the strikers suffered as much repression, summonses, harassment, whether it be electricians, railway workers, RATP agents, dockers or firemen, or even, from now on, high school students. We no longer count union activists, young people and employees summoned by the courts. I wish to reiterate this solemnly here in the National Assembly: we stand in solidarity with all these employees! They are the heroes of our country, not the Carlos Ghosn and other Balkans from your class, the rich. Yes, there is a democracy problem! Yes, you are an authoritarian power! We are far from the ambition of 1946, when Ambrose Croizat and the government led by General de Gaulle sought unanimity in Parliament to create the social security system that we know today, recognized throughout the world. They have succeeded in achieving unanimity in our country. Our country has indeed changed since 1946: today we produce four times more wealth; France is the world's sixth largest economy. We even have at home the richest man on the planet, Bernard Arnault. And there wouldn't be any money? To get out of the impasse in which you yourself have locked up, there is now only one solution: to give the word back to the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u153	It's up to him to have the last word! This is the best way to get out of this major crisis with dignity from the top. Don't be afraid to question the French directly, by referendum, about your project. That is what the Communist Members of Parliament are asking for today. It is a matter of national sovereignty and democracy! It cannot be reduced to a blank cheque given every five years to a government, especially since, during the presidential campaign, you never announced a decline in the retirement age. It was never said that this age would be pushed back to 63, 64 or 65! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Yes, democracy needs air in France! She needs to breathe! It is with this breath that our country needs today. It is a question of giving full meaning to the sovereignty of the people, so that they can at last express themselves without hindrance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u154	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u155	Today we are committed to the construction of a new pension system. We do so with conviction and determination, in listening and concertation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u156	You bet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u157	This bill gives the social partners a central role in the construction, governance and management of the pension system. This renewed confidence in paritarianism empowers each of the actors with regard to the financial balance of the system, in the short and medium term. This project is in line with the one proposed to the French by the President of the Republic during his election. It is in line with the commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u158	Not as far as retirement age is concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u159	It is a necessary, fair and fair reform, ambitious, up to the challenge. No one can contest the difficulties encountered by the current system: it is a source of inequality, since women's pensions are 42 per cent lower than those of men; it opens up the recognition of penitibility only to the private sector; it is most inequitable in terms of starting age, between those who leave the earliest and those who leave the latest; he sees forty-two pension schemes coexist with different rules;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u160	That's not true! There aren't forty-two of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u161	... it does not accompany the evolution of society; it does not respond to the protection issues of certain activities or statutes. We reaffirm that, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is necessary, because our present system is too complex, illegible and unfavourable to the most vulnerable workers. This reform is necessary. Our majority has the courage to recognize it and to embark on the re-engineering of our old age insurance system, while previous governments and legislatures have given up on it, given the scale of the challenge. This reform is fair because, for the first time in our history, every hour worked will open up rights. An employee will earn points from the first hour worked. The value of this point cannot be reduced; It will improve, thanks to its indexation on wages. Completed, hours worked that do not open any rights despite full contributions! Ended, unworthy pension levels! Analysis of the redistributive balance sheet shows this: after the implementation of this reform, pension levels will be better and the dispersion of pensions will be reduced. This reform is right, because it lays down the principle of the same rights for all, by ensuring the maintenance of a system of pension by distribution, based on solidarity between the generations, for the benefit of future generations – this is our responsibility as legislators. The inequalities arising from our present system are no longer tolerable; We're correcting them. I am thinking in particular of women. Who dares to pretend that the rules should not be changed, while women's pensions are 42 per cent lower than men's? This represents 800 euros less per month on average! Career inequities sometimes have dramatic consequences for their retirements. The reform will rebalance the rights of men and women. These will be among the main beneficiaries of the introduction of a minimum pension of 85% of the SMIC. Indeed, 70 per cent of part-time workers and the majority of paid persons in SMIC are women. Women are also more likely to work up to 67 years to avoid discounting. It's not fair. Could you, Madam Minister, tell us what the effects of the reform will be for women working at SMIC, sometimes part-time? In addition, 90 per cent of survivors' pensions are now women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u162	That's why we mustn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u163	The new system of reversion, which will guarantee the surviving spouse 70 per cent of the total amount of the couple's resources, will benefit women above all. In the universal system, the same rights will be given to each child, from the first child: a pension increase of 5 per cent will be granted to all, regardless of professional status or career, with the right of option for its allocation between parents. Thus, 8 million women will benefit from an increase, compared to 3 million at present. In addition to the 5% increase, rights will be opened during career breaks related to the arrival of a child. These will no longer be only validated quarters; These will be euro contributions for increased pensions. The allocation of points to carers to value pensions will, again, mainly concern women, as carers are, to date, the majority of women. Finally, from the first hour worked, points will be recorded for part-time persons and persons holding short contracts. This will also contribute to the fight against insecurity. These are important social advances for women and for the most vulnerable workers. The parliamentary debate will have to respect democratic rules, because the stakes deserve that everyone should be able to speak out, with responsibility, before national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u164	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u165	The point will be clearer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u166	For more than two years now, you have been working with the social partners to try to find, for all French people, a decent solution to the pension reform that you are leading. Today, this dialogue is culminating in the biggest social crisis our country has experienced since 1968. Your inability to respond clearly to our many questions – concerning, among other things, the value of the point, the pivotal age, which has disappeared temporarily, disguised as an age of equilibrium, the discount, the duration of the contribution, the extent of the transition period – reflects the chaotic management of an ill-prepared reform. The reality is simple: under the guise of establishing a fairer and more equitable system, you will end up deepening the inequalities that break our society. Our proposals and warnings have not caught your attention at all. In addition, you choose to sweep the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u167	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u168	Although its opinion was only advisory, the Council of State pointed to many shortcomings, which clearly undermined the probity of the reform. He notes that the impact assessment is "inadequate" – for my part, I would say that it is almost non-existent. He believes that the financial projections are "weak" – they are actually absent. He believes that the large number of ordinances "makes the overall visibility necessary to assess the consequences of the reform and, consequently, its constitutionality and its contractuality lose". Finally, your system has a universal title only, since you actually maintain five regimes. It's unreadable, totally unreadable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u169	It's all right, Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u170	The question to be asked is, Madam Minister, is there a need for a universal system? Yes, possibly, for part of the basic remuneration, for a retirement base. Yes, eventually, to foster convergence between the public and the private sector. However, today the need is to ensure the future of pensions for all French people, thus ensuring a financial balance. In the draft law, however, there is nothing about financing, which is an unprecedented fact under the Fifth Republic. The issue is referred to a funding conference led by the social partners. It is particularly shocking to ask the national representation to examine, then vote for an unfunded reform,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u172	... above all of such magnitude: the sums involved account for 15% of GDP overall. It's like we're being asked to adopt a budget with spending alone and no vision of revenue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u173	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u174	I ask you the question, Madam Minister: do you think that the responsibility for deciding on a pension scheme that covers all the assets must lie solely with the social partners, who represent employees and employers? Only Parliament represents the entire people and the national territory as a whole. The point scheme you are proposing will severely penalize employees in the private sector, whose careers are almost always ascending – you have rarely seen someone start their professional life at the top of the pay scale and finish it at the bottom of this scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u175	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u176	And I'm not talking about the 6 million civil servants in the three public offices. Take the example of territorial civil servants. Three quarters of them fall into category C and receive low wages. But the last six months of their career are often an opportunity to upgrade their treatment, and you know that! Minister, the promise to substantially increase wages only commits those who listen to it. For example, this morning your rapporteur had an amendment to Rule 1 adopted in a special committee, with the aim of deleting paragraphs 14 and 15. Paragraph 14 dealt with the upgrading of the remuneration of teachers and researchers in order to guarantee them a level of retirement equivalent to that of staff in the same category of the civil service; Paragraph 15 referred the financing of this measure to a national education programming law. Who will have to upgrade the salaries of territorial civil servants so that they can qualify for a decent pension? Communities? They're already strangled, and you're asking for more effort every year! What will be the articulation of the project with the Cahors device? Finally, for many women with children, especially those with three or more, the abolition of quarterly increments will be very penalizing. The same applies to the division between spouses of the 5 per cent increase per child from the first, since the wages of women are often lower than those of women. This is not conducive to fairness. The banner of universality that you proudly brandish hides a camouflet; In fact, it will exacerbate the complexity and injustice of our pension system. Your contempt for Parliament is a denial of democracy; The French expect us to be more rigorous and serious in considering a text that will have significant consequences for their lives. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you should be aware that the fruit of a working life cannot be considered so casually.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u178	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u179	The pension reform currently under discussion in this House raises, as everyone knows, questions and reactions to membership, but also fears. I would like to remind you, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Allied Movement, that this reform is not only necessary to reshape a pension system that is neither fair nor legible, but also legitimate and expected, because it is the result of a long process of consultation. Beyond the fears expressed by a part of the population, it is important to define what is being said. The choices made in this reform are guided by the imperative of social justice. They address many challenges, including the consideration of future demographic and economic developments. Social protection as a whole is long-term. There is no model type, no perfect scheme. Nevertheless, the one proposed by the Government seems to us to be a true, more just and lasting intergenerational pact. This project, which will set the framework for our pension system, will also ensure the sustainability of our system by distribution. The effectiveness of the schemes also stems from the coherence of the major social reforms that we are constantly pursuing. Our action remains guided by many questions and the will to meet major challenges. What share of the national wealth do we want to devote to distributed pensions? What standard of living do we want to ensure for future pensioners? How can membership and confidence be reinvigorated? How can we reshape a new social pact, nourished by frank and direct dialogue, for a more united society, in which humans prevail? "If man fails to reconcile justice and freedom, then he fails everything," wrote Albert Camus. This quotation sums up the challenges of this reform, in which these two priorities are combined. Justice is respected – and I am talking about social justice here: the system will be fairer, for those who have experienced minced careers and for women; It will also be more supportive of small incomes. Freedom is also present: for everyone, to decide their retirement age in an informed manner, with all the elements that can guide their choice. This reform is based on three pillars – universality, equity and solidarity. Within the Democratic Movement, we pay particular attention to three principles, which we believe to be decisive. The guarantee of the level of pensions first of all: they must not fall, regardless of the upheavals in society. Second, the acquired rights and specificities of each career must be taken into account in the transition towards the end of special schemes. Finally, the reserves of different professions must be untouchable. Five major aspects of this reform seem to us to be a priority. First, the guarantees granted to the French must be secured through sustainable and independent governance; It will leave its place to the social partners. Penitentiaryness must be taken into account and difficult working conditions must be recognised. The family, with the changes it is experiencing, is also an important subject. We must respect the freedom to organize our end of our careers, and to pass on the skills and knowledge acquired for decades to the younger generations. We must recognize the commitment of everyone, and above all of everyone, to others, to society or to the world of associations. This invisible work, carried out in particular by caregivers, is very often performed by women and is almost never valued or rewarded. In my personal capacity, I will pay particular attention to the proposed changes in the retirement system for civil servants. The new methods of calculation are a change of course, the consequences of which will be very concrete. I will observe precisely how convergence towards the target system will be achieved over 15 years in order to avoid a sudden transition. [[Ms. Josy Poueyto applauds]] Finally, I would like to say a word about the importance of social dialogue, which I believe is the key to successful reform and to meeting the challenges. The opening of the financing conference last week to reach an agreement on the financial balance of the pension system by 2027 is an example. Governance must be based on a strong social pact, in which each of the trade union representatives argues. For democracy consists above all of valuing and considering the voice of everyone; It is to know how to share power and decisions, in good collective intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u180	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u181	Sixty days of strike, a majority of the citizens of this country opposed to your pension reform, a social tension at its peak – and you, impassive, ready to go into force, in disregard of the general interest: I confess, Madam Minister, that the Government's constancy is an exploit. Last week, you objected to the extension of a child's death leave, whereas on all the benches in this House we were in favour of it. This week, it's about pensions that you're inflexible. Will it be necessary to wait until the final vote for you to claim the mistake once again? We do not reform a country against its citizens, we reform it with them, for them, for their future. What you are doing today on pensions is akin to hard work: because you have destroyed the work done with the unions, including the reform unions; because you have taken care of social mobilization against your reform; because you remain deaf to the very serious criticisms made by the Council of State of your text; Finally, because you are currently trampling on Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u183	So it's true that you're the majority. It is certain that the majority fact gives you the opportunity to move forward without worrying about oppositions, whether they are citizens or politicians. However, Alexis de Tocqueville, who was not socialist – the least we can say – warned in the 19th century about the risk of "despotism of the majority". He added that "the majority itself is not all-powerful. Above it, in the moral world, are humanity, justice and reason." Humanity, justice and reason, minister: these words should inspire you – and these are the values that you are flouting with the pension reform that you want to impose on us. It is true that this country must be reformed; However, you do not have a monopoly on reform. The right-wing and left-wing governments that have succeeded each other for 30 years have reformed pensions many times to allow our system to continue. Our pay-as-you-go pension system has resisted the economic crisis of the 1970s; he resisted mass unemployment in the 1980s and 1990s; it held good during the 2008 subprime crisis and the 2012 euro area crisis. In short, it has resisted the test of time, thanks to the reforms of the governments that preceded you. Should we destroy everything and make a clean table of the past, as you propose? Absolutely not. The majorities and governments that preceded you have shown responsibility: we knew how to make the general interest – the interest of France and the French – prevail over that of multinationals and private pension funds. It's time to say things clearly. The nobility of the parliamentary debate, of the political debate, requires telling the truth to the French: this reform is inspired by private pension funds, BlackRock in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u185	There's no doubt about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u186	This reform aims to strengthen private pensions to provide banks with financial reserves, which until now were public and belonged to all French. This reform aims to gradually open up the market for funded pensions in France, in order to reduce the public share of pensions and strengthen their privatisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u187	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u188	It's obvious! Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u189	It is inspired by an ideology that bears a name: neoliberalism. It is your project, suffering that the intentions that you pursue with a guilty mutism are clearly stated. So yes, you stupidly defend an ideology that has led to the sinking of a large number of countries and has caused devastating economic crises for the citizens of the world. Europe is barely recovering from the crisis in the euro area, with all the social setbacks it has created for the peoples of Europe, and you here are pretending to do, ten years later, what has failed everywhere else in Europe: austerity. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Very concretely, it is austerity for pensions – that is, a reduction in pensions, accompanied by a reduction in the legal retirement age. Call it "equilibrium age", "pivot age" or "legal age": the reality is that your reform corresponds to the stone age for pensions and that you lead us straight into the wall. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] However, there are other possibilities, other reforms could be envisaged, for more social justice. But you are insensitive, preferring to advance head down, blinded that you are by your ideology, which could be described as infamous. There is no fatality that prevents us from recognizing that we were wrong, no shame to backtrack. It is your stubbornness, towards and against all, that is critical. You know, like me, what they say, Madam Minister, about those who do not change their minds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u190	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u191	Thank you for your various interventions. Before I answer you, I would like to return briefly to the conditions under which we are meeting in the Chamber to discuss the pension system, at the request of the Socialist and Related Group. The National Assembly is considering in a special committee, as we speak, two draft laws, one ordinary and the other organic, aimed at establishing a universal pension system. It is not for the Government to decide on the appropriateness of parliamentary work in monitoring and evaluating public policies. However, it seems to me to be useful to recall that compliance with the legislative procedure, and with the work of this special commission, does not allow us to have discussions of the same nature at the sitting, dealing with the details of the future bill. This text proposes a new pact between the generations, and I would like to outline its philosophy before you. It is a pact faithful, in his mind, to the one imagined after the Second World War by the National Council of the Resistance...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u192	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u193	...and who created, as you know, the current pension system. He recasts the rules in depth to correct injustices, as well as to adapt it to the career paths of the twenty-first century, and to take into account the new forms of precariousness, which are no longer those of the Thirty Glorious. However, he remains deeply faithful to the founding values of our social pact. France has not made the choice of "each one for himself, and so much worse for others".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u194	Yes, that's the choice you make!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u195	Everything for the rich and nothing for the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u196	We do not want to entrust the care of our seniors to the market or pension funds. It is a fundamental, historic and repeated choice of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u197	History! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u198	Even when disagreements arise between us, I have observed that we all strive to preserve this unwavering link between generations, which is one of the most eloquent illustrations of what makes our democracy deeply social.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u199	You don't respect democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u200	The reform is based on three principles. The first is that of universality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u201	For universality, it's failed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u202	It will guarantee the French a stronger and more sustainable social protection, because it will no longer depend on the demographics of a given profession or sector. It will allow greater freedom of movement between trades, to disconnect professional choices from the level of pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u203	Disconnected – that's the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u204	The second principle of our reform is social justice and equity. I hear those who say our system is the best in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u206	In fact, it allows us to have one of the lowest poverty rates in Europe among retired people. This is very good, and it is not intended to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u207	The problem is that you're going to impoverish them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u208	All the point reforms have had the same result: an explosion in the poverty of pensioners!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u209	All the measures taken by the Government are in the same direction...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u210	But let us not close our eyes to the injustices that our society has tolerated for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u211	You're making these injustices worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u212	The universal system will make it possible to better protect the most fragile French people, who are often forgotten by the present system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u213	A little humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u214	The third principle of this universal system is responsibility, starting with that of the actors. The Prime Minister said: the governance of the system will be entrusted to the social partners, under the supervision of Parliament, respecting the role of each and articulating intelligently social democracy and parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u215	Let us say "under the authority of the President of the Republic", because the Parliament, at the moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u216	The scheme is financed at 75% by contributions, which justifies the intervention and central role of the social partners. Together with AGIRC-ARRCO – the General Association of Executive Retirement Institutions and the Association for the Supplementary Pension Scheme of Employees – they have demonstrated that they know how to manage pensions when they are in a position of responsibility and when they are given the levers. Responsibility is also about restoring the confidence of younger generations in a system they are increasingly doubting. Who didn't hear a young man say, "In any case, retirement, we won't have any more"? The responsibility is not to ask them to finance, in addition to our pensions, deficits that we would have accumulated because we would not like to pay the entire retirement of our parents, but to take into account, like all our neighbours, undeniable economic and demographic data. There were four assets to finance a retiree in 1950. There's only 1.7 left today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u217	But they are otherwise more productive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u218	That is what I could say to you at this stage and without prejudging, as I said, the debates currently taking place in the special committee. I will of course be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u219	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, like that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u220	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u221	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u222	Minister, will your pension counter-reform be a fatal blow to the voluntary engagement of retirees? Associative life is a tremendous wealth. It is strong in the engagement of 18 million volunteers in more than a million associations. Today, however, there would be no association life in our country without pensioners: 40% of those over 60 are members of an association. This participation rate peaks between 60 and 70 years of age at 45%. Better: half of the presidents of associations are pensioners, one third of whom are over the age of 65. Between 2010 and 2019, the associative engagement rate for the 65+ years fell from 38% to 31%. Why? Of course, a need to blow, to look after his family – grandchildren or seniors; but also because of the increase in the retirement age from 62 to 63 and a half years. Participation in an association decreases with age. The participation rate is divided by three among people in poor health, while scientific publications show the beneficial effect of associative participation on the health of pensioners themselves. Healthy life expectancy, i.e. the disability-free life expectancy in everyday life gestures, is now 64 years below the European average and stable for 15 years. As we know, setting the age of balance at 65, as a result of your counter-reform, will delay retirement beyond the current age of 62. Today, however, the challenge is to retire in good health. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Minister, what effect will pension reform have on the voluntary engagement of retirees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u223	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u224	The question you are asking is extremely important to the Minister of Solidarity that I am, because – you are right – we need the involvement of associations. This is a fact of society that we must promote. With the renewal of generations, the relationship to the commitment of the French has changed in society. The commitment is shorter term, oriented towards more ad hoc projects, to the detriment of faithful long-term commitment to an association.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u225	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, No knowledge of the community!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u226	It is therefore essential that our society promotes associative engagement and volunteerism, factors of cohesion for a society and the marks of a democracy that promotes solidarity. Gabriel Attal works actively in this area by thinking about creating incentives and a better recognition of lifelong commitment, in particular through certification of skills and knowledge acquired during the engagement phases, which could be recognised in the labour market. To answer your question, of course, we are ensuring that the rules of the pension system do not have a disincentive effect on associative engagement. However, I do not believe that associative engagement is a problem of retirement age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u227	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u228	It is a problem of adaptation of society which all the markers actually show that more and more young people and fewer and fewer pensioners are engaged. Today, therefore, the commitment is not linked to the retirement age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u229	Yes! I told you why!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u230	I mean, I'm going back to a sentence you said. Medically speaking, healthy life span has nothing to do with life without disability. These are two different things: you can be in poor health, for example, with diabetes, without being incapacitated. It is therefore not necessary to mix the two terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u231	I'm relying on DREES's studies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u232	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u233	The UDI group, Agir et indépendants, is in favour of a pension system that guarantees equality for all French people, a system that ensures the solidarity of all assets, both public and private, according to common rules. We encourage this process of unification. However, it calls for our vigilance on one point: that of the future of the State's contribution as an employer. Contributions paid by public and private employers are currently significantly different. The contribution rate for private employers is 16.3 per cent, when the State pays 74.28 per cent for the retirement of civil servants and 126.07 per cent for the military. Each year, budgetary appropriations are allocated to finance these pensions. In 2018, this expenditure amounted to about 41 billion euros for civil and military pensions. In addition, contributions not covering all pensions paid to special schemes, the State employer contribution, which plays a subsidy role, was created in 2003. In 2019, the State paid €7.5 billion in balance subsidies to the special schemes of SNCF, RATP, State workers, mines and the navy. Tomorrow, we are about to abolish special schemes and integrate the public service into the future universal system, which will align the state contribution rate with the private employer contribution rate. We therefore ask ourselves: what will happen to the contribution of the State as an employer? Will it be paid in full to the universal pension fund? In the interest of the financial balance of the universal system, it is essential that the State take its share of responsibility. Can you assure us that the whole of the funding now allocated by the State to guarantee these retirement pensions will be paid into the common fund to be set up under the universal system?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u234	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u235	I would like to begin by thanking you for your comments and your interest in this reform. I can assure you that, in the future organization, the state contribution to the pension system will be maintained in 2025. As you have pointed out, there are several elements to this contribution: the contributions it pays as an employer, the allocations and the tax revenues it brings to balance certain schemes, and the revenues it allocates to the pension system in connection with the financing of solidarity schemes or the relief of expenses. Once the employer State's bases and contribution rates have been aligned with those of other employers, this contribution will consist of the following: 45 billion, corresponding to the solidarity schemes directly supported, such as family benefits, and also corresponding to the early departures of the active categories and the demographic imbalances internal to the civil service system, and 8.5 billion euros of balance. To get to the bottom of your question, this contribution will then evolve according to the nature and dynamics of the expenditure it aims to cover: rights similar to ordinary law, early departures of active categories, taking into account penitibility in the civil service and specific rights in extinction. It will therefore gradually incorporate the financial consequences for the State of the abolition of special schemes and of certain active categories. The principles adopted for the evolution of the State's contribution will be presented at the financing conference. In the future system, therefore, the contribution of the State will continue – we will see how much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u236	In short, it's either yes or it's no?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u237	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u238	In 2019, the employment rate of 55-64-year-olds in France was 52.3%, six points lower than the European average. On average, a senior remains unemployed twice as long as all jobseekers. The question of the employment of older people is increasingly important in the context of the pension reform, since it provides for the establishment of a balanced age around 65 years, which is intended to decline. But then, how does the Government intend to give itself the means of its ambition: to encourage more work? How does it intend in practice to improve the retention of older people in employment and facilitate their transition to retirement? We welcome the opportunity offered by the bill to acquire additional rights through the employment-retirement cumulation scheme. But why didn't you open the progressive retirement scheme until you were 62 years old and 60 years old today? Since its inception in 1988, progressive retirement has evolved. It no longer has the strict task of encouraging the extension of the activity beyond the retirement age, which is the objective taken up by the cumulation of employment and retirement. Its main purpose is to facilitate the transition of people to retirement by reducing their activity. It is especially a valuable tool for promoting transmission to succeeding generations. It is also one of the solutions to take into account the penitibility at work without resorting to early retirement. In these circumstances, is it not paradoxical to raise the age of progressive retirement? Finally, what adjustments are planned to effectively accompany the implementation of this right? Currently, the device is still under-used. Beyond pension reform, how does the Government plan to make it attractive and effective for both employers and workers, without affecting business activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u239	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u240	The issue of the employment of older people is pre-existing in the area of pension reform. It is already happening with the previous reform aimed at the gradual extension of the number of contributory quarters: in this context, private employees leave at an average age of 63 and a half and will have to contribute longer. This is in fact a general problem, which we need to learn and which is highlighted by the current reform. The Government had asked Ms. Bellon to work on the matter. His report, which was submitted to us on 14 January, contains 38 proposals relating to the prevention of occupational wear and tear, the development of second part career skills, a better organization of occupational mobility, a more gradual transition between full activity and full retirement – I will come back – and a cultural transformation of the perception of older people in companies. This report will help us to define in a concerted way the measures that will enable the development of active ageing at work and the retention of older people, which we would prefer to call experienced workers. Since the beginning of January, Muriel Pénicaud and I have been conducting a round of consultation with the social partners in order to identify the measures to be implemented to take account of the penitibility and the retention in employment of older people. These go through three channels: normative, branch agreements and changes in attitudes on the perception of experienced workers in the professional world. Then you mentioned the gradual retirement. It is very important to organize career ends and allow everyone to organize transitions smoothly according to their choices. In the universal pension system, we wish to provide for the extension of progressive retirement to all, in particular to employees in special schemes or to the liberal professions. A consultation was conducted on the subject by Olivier Dussopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u241	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u242	Last Monday, François opened his veins at his workplace in Vitry-sur-Seine. François, a trade unionist at RATP, has been fighting since December 5 for the general interest – not for his own retirement, but for that of your children, future generations. For striking, François, like three other strikers, was summoned and threatened with dismissal. This committed man was dirty, harassed; he received a payroll of zero euro for the month of January. François embodies the France you push to the end. How many suicide attempts and depressions will it take? How much violence, lost eyes, torn hands, suffering, so that you could finally hear the people? How far are you ready to go to force this BlackRock reform? Violent people are you, when you are indignant that two hours of power cuts affect the big bosses, but don't say anything about the 572,000 power cuts for non-payments that prevent families from heating and cooking. The violent are you, when the Secretary of State for Pension Reform, then a member of Auchan's Human Resources Directorate, sends a cashier in custody and the threat of dismissal for offering a burnt chocolate bread. The violent are you, who criminalise all those who oppose your unjust policy, and violate democracy. What do you look like? All but the Republic. In truth, you tolerate citizens only silently and passively; You only love democracy when it suits the private interests you serve. Yet baton, threats and contempt will never be able to silence the people raised and united. France makes its apron everywhere. The teachers put down their books, the lawyers their dresses, the caregivers their coats, the drainers their tools. Mobilisation makes magnificent impulses of solidarity flourish, shows a society that is not centered on work, productivity, and individualism, but on sharing, living together and emancipation – a world of solidarity to which we aspire. Madam Minister, are you going to withdraw your reform hated by the French, or will you continue to set the country on fire and blood?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u243	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u244	Mrs Panot, as you know, the right to strike has constitutional value; He is fortunately respected in our country. It is also necessary to respect the law, which recalls that violence is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u245	It's not about violence. The protest was never violent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u246	I come to my basic answer: this reform is deeply social and redistributive; It will benefit people who are never represented, have no time to walk on the street, and are not defended by trade union organisations: women with the most minced careers...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u247	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u248	You can't say that, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u249	...the most precarious. They are not represented; the reform, as you know, will benefit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u250	You're lying, and you know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u251	Please, Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u252	They'll come to all of you to ask you for an account!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u253	I'm ready to answer them. We are here to show the French how redistributive the reform is. We will discuss this during the coming weeks; I think they'll be convinced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u254	No one's convinced!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u255	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u256	Any pension reform must answer the following question: do we live to work, or is it the other way around? For their part, the Government and the majority believe that it is necessary to live in order to work; They didn't understand they were the only ones. The French people have told you in every way for exactly two months: they want to work to live. Therefore, he cannot accept that the end of healthy life expectancy comes before retirement. The French want to live their old age, to retire at a decent age, and while their physical condition is bearable. I recall that in France, the healthy life expectancy is 64 years for women, 62.7 years for men; It varies, depending on the profession, by ten years. A worker can hope to live without sensory and physical problems up to 59 years; and he will be asked to retire at age 65? We must also count on the employment rate of the elderly, which is 30%: therefore, those who wish to do so cannot continue to work, or to find a job. Your arguments haven't deceived anyone from the beginning. That's why the challenge doesn't stop. So assume that you want to lower the amount of pension by distribution to such a ridiculous level that people will have to pay for a supplementary pension. This reform is a gift to your friends in pension funds. [[Mr. Fabien Roussel applauds]] On the other hand, the Communist Members proposed to reduce the retirement age to 60 at full rates. This is a measure of social progress! You have to be able to enjoy your life after work; the contestation shows that it is the will of the French. It's up to you to listen to them and withdraw your reform. Have the courage to submit it to the referendum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u257	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u258	You oppose work and life, but, fortunately, you can live by working. We want the working conditions of employees and civil servants to be good. The whole purpose of this reform is to allow it. This will allow for the extension of the criteria of penitibility to the public service. This work will be particularly interesting for the hospital public service; I'm thinking here of health care workers. The reform also gives us the opportunity to discuss the end of the career, and in particular the possible conversions to the second part of the career, which will improve the situation of those who have worked in difficult jobs. We are also working on progressive retirement, in accordance with the wishes of many French people, who want to avoid retirement being a break, painful for some. I do not understand that you systematically oppose work and life. The aim of the reform is not to have ad vitam aeternam work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u259	...but still to make work longer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u260	Far from it. It allows a demographic problem to be addressed: the ratio between assets and retirees is less and less favourable; However, we consider it imperative to preserve the pensions of the elderly. Finally, you are asking for a referendum. However, it seems to me that Parliament is the rightful place to vote the law. I am surprised that the Members, who have been mandated to debate, to draft amendments in order to improve the legislation, decide to discharge their responsibilities...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u261	It's about getting out of the current crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u262	Your majority is no longer representative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u263	Dismissing his responsibilities, you can talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u264	...by asking for a referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u265	You have no problem with the referendum on ecology envisaged by the President of the Republic, on the other hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u266	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u267	On Monday, the National Assembly began its consideration of the two draft laws establishing a universal pension system. While maintaining the principle of allocation under which assets finance pensions, the reform will correct inequalities in the current system. More social justice, equity, solidarity: these are the key words. I am thinking in particular of the independent professions, which will benefit from much progress thanks to this reform: every hour worked will now be taken into account when calculating pension rights; pensions will be increased by 5% from the first child; the pension system will be simplified and strengthened, allowing 70% of the couple's income to be retained; Above all, the introduction of a minimum pension of 85% of the SMIC. These provisions, which will benefit all the assets, are improvements for the self-employed. However, as the professional organisations concerned have pointed out, this reform also translates into an increase in contributions for these workers. For some, such as nurses, physiotherapists, orthoptists or speech therapists, the contribution rate will increase to 28%. I know that the Government is aware of the difficulty and is actively working with professionals. Minister, can you tell us what transitional measures are planned for the independent professions, and what provisions will neutralize the effects of the increase in contributions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u268	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u269	Mr President, you are asking a question which concerns the self-employed sector; I'm delighted to be able to answer it. The current situation is very heterogeneous, depending on whether they are artisans, traders, farmers or professionals; It is within the liberal professions that heterogeneity is greatest. It is therefore necessary to define the appropriate transition for each of these occupations. The draft law provides for accompanying measures, including reform of the social base. A reduction on the reported income will allow for the reconstitution of a gross base comparable to that of employees, on which the general social contribution – CSG – and social contributions will be levied. It is both a measure of justice – we avoid that these insured persons are not subject to too high a CSG rate – and a simplification measure, which avoids the circulation that is known today, that is, the fact that the base of contributions is obtained by a calculation that requires knowledge of the contributions. Finally, it is an accompanying measure, which completely neutralizes the effects of the new scale of contributions for artisans and traders alike. For farmers, the scheme allows for the limitation of premium increases, which will in any case be spread over time. In addition, the 40% of farmers who are now subject to the minimum contribution rate will be reduced. I'm going to the liberal professions. The standard cases presented in the impact study show that the reform allows to absorb the effect of the increase in contributions for the medical auxiliaries you mentioned. For a lawyer whose income is equal to 1 PASS – an annual social security ceiling – seven out of 11 to 12 points of the proposed increase in the contribution rate will be absorbed through the reform of the base. The evolution of contributions will also be smoothed over a period of fifteen years. As we have always said, if the reduction in the amount of the CSG and the long transition periods foreseen are not sufficient, the professions will be able to mobilise their reserves to accompany the evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u270	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u271	At present, penitibility is not taken into account in the same way, and career arrangements differ from one scheme to another, even for employees in the same occupation. The reform of pensions will extend and improve the consideration of penitibility, according to criteria that will be the same for all, notably through the opening of the "C2P account" professional penitibility account to civil servants and employees of special schemes. The reform will also make it possible to better take into account night work, the same thresholds becoming applicable to all. This is a real progress, which deserves to be stressed. Next week there will be a meeting between the Government and the trade unions to discuss penitibility. At present, the definition of this concept, at the heart of the discussions, is based primarily on endogenous criteria, such as physical constraints. The World Health Organization and Public Health France are alerting us to other forms of penitibility. I am thinking in particular of the situation of those responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, the first employers in France. They are artisans, work in the hospitality and catering trades, for example, and often employ a few employees. They need to be a good technician, but also a good manager, a good accountant, and a good manager. They are constantly concerned about the life of the company; for them, there is no holiday. Minister, it is time to come back to the very definition of penitibility. What are the Government's intentions in this regard? Will the definition of penitibility continue to be based exclusively on physical criteria, or do you intend to go further and broaden it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u272	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u273	Madam Member, allow me to recall the balance of the bill. The universal system should make it possible to harmonise the rights between the different schemes in order, in particular, to ensure that persons working in the same occupation enjoy the same pension rights. The system must ensure that those whose health has been affected by their work – either because they started working very young or because they are exposed to long-term occupational risks – will be able to retire before age 62. The two measures to take account of hardship will be extended to cover 5.5 million civil servants and employees in special schemes. They may benefit from the permanent disability pension, which allows for a 60-year-old leave without discount, provided that a disability of at least 10 % linked to one of the occupational risks is found. In addition, the occupational preventive account will allow civil servants and employees of special schemes, like other workers, to retire up to two years earlier and to benefit from training or part-time paid as full-time. As you also know, the same thresholds for night and shift work will be applied to all; they will be lowered in the future system. Finally, a ceiling currently limits the acquisition of points of penitibility, which allow for vocational retraining or part-time work; it will be deleted. Discussions with the social partners continue on this basis. Muriel Pénicaud leads it for private employees, Olivier Dussopt for civil servants. Several of the issues you raised were addressed. The discussion is due to conclude next week. The Parliament will have before it the adaptations proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u274	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u275	Like you, Minister, we want this reform. We're not obstructing. On the contrary, we make proposals, but you do not listen to them. You want to move your text into force, without even specifying the funding, by returning entire sections of the reform to orders that you can draft at your own discretion while imposing an unsustainable timetable on Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u276	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u277	We strongly denounce these methods that trample national representation. To finance your universal system, you think you have found a manna: the 2 billion euros of reserves that lawyers have gathered through their efforts. This is an unbearable injustice! The lawyers are angry, right? They have embarked on an unprecedented strike because your text is carrying out an unheard-of attack on their profession: they will indeed lose their autonomous pension scheme, which is particularly virtuous – the one thanks to which, over the last twenty years, they have returned to the general deficit scheme three times more than they have made up reserves, that is to say more than 100 million euros per year! That is the solidarity of lawyers! You seem to confuse special schemes with autonomous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u278	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u279	Many lawyers are already unable to pay 14% contributions, but when this rate is increased to 28%, 40% of Liberal firms will have to stop doing business, while others will be precarised. In short, the jobs of 25,000 employees will be threatened! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Will you hear the legitimate demands of the lawyers, Madam Minister? Members of the Republican Group have heard them and tabled amendments in response to them. Will the Government accept our virtuous proposals for French pensions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u280	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u281	The Government does not go into force, the deputy; It proposes a bill and all political groups are welcome to amend and improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u282	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u283	On the other hand, the ordinances – as we said – have only one objective: the transitions for the different professions. We include in the law the provisions that fall under it, but all transitions require long dialogues that cannot be carried out in haste. This is why the ordinances are reserved for transitions in the professions concerned. You also say that we are going to puncture the reserves. I have said it and I repeat: none of the reserves accumulated by the professions in recent years will be used to abound the reserve fund of the future universal system. Professional reserves are preserved. They will eventually be used by these same professionals to accompany the transitions if they wish – this is one of the points of the ongoing negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u284	So it's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u285	There will be no charge on the reserves of the various occupational schemes. Finally, we do not confuse autonomous and special schemes. We just made the decision to treat all French people to the same brand,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u286	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u287	... to ensure that we all stand in solidarity with each other and that pension systems no longer depend on the demographics of each profession. Some professions with very dynamic demographics do not want to integrate the universal system because they benefit from it, but the day comes when the demographic curve is reversed, and we see the damage to pension systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u288	But they're quite self-governing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u289	We make the choice of universality. The future system will affect 100% of the French and no one will have to escape it, because it will reflect the social justice we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u290	In the meantime, you question the economic model of the profession of lawyer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u291	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u292	I fear that I will not convince you, Madam Minister, but I want to ask you directly why the Government wishes to demolish the autonomous regime of lawyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u293	And their profession with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u294	Indeed, it is a perfectly managed scheme that generates an annual surplus, which generates reserves and contributes to national solidarity, since last year it paid more than EUR 100 million to the general scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u295	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u296	If the Government's initial project enters into force, this profession will be forcibly integrated – or at least against its will – into a universal system whose consequences could prove disastrous. I will take only one example, that of the bar of Auxerre, which has fifty-eight lawyers. It is the youngest and most economically fragile – often the same – who will be most affected. The contribution will double from 14 to 28 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u297	Intenable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u298	In other words, young lawyers with an annual profit of 40000 euros will only receive a monthly income close to the SMIC. In the past few days, as I know, the Government has begun an outline of consultation: last night, the Prime Minister and the keeper of seals received a delegation. My request to the Government, Madam Minister, is simple: do not make untenable promises to this profession – and, to say the least, lies. In particular, do not promise it to compensate for the increase in the contribution by a reduction of 30% on the CSG: it is indeed a tax, and, I firmly say, it would simply be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u299	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u300	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Rather than improvising roughies, accept for once, modestly, to recognize your initial error and return to common sense. Do not destroy this autonomous system of professionals, who are at the service of our fellow citizens, who play an indispensable role in the public service of justice. Focus on the real problems of the French – there are so many – rather than creating them yourself, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u301	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u302	First, consultations with lawyers' representatives continue as they were received yesterday by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u303	They've re-launched their strike!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u304	But I want to be very clear, honourable Member, and I will therefore take specific examples. During the discussions, it has been shown that the reform of the social base will reduce the old-age insurance contribution base of lawyers' median earnings by almost 10%, and its CSG and CRDS base – the social debt repayment contribution by 26%. This mechanism will allow, without imposing any additional burden on lawyers, to increase pension contributions by 6.6 points for a lawyer receiving 32,000 euros of annual income, and 6.8 points for a lawyer receiving 40,000 euros. The pension of a lawyer receiving an average of EUR 32,000 per year throughout his career will be 13% higher than he would have received under the autonomous scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u305	I'm waiting to see that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u306	There will be no double-counting of lawyers: it is a mistruth. It should also be noted that beyond an income equivalent to 1.8 times the PASS, the universal system will not result in an increase in contributions for this profession. The question therefore concerns the lowest incomes and the measures complementary to the reduction of CSG – which I would like to remind you that it has been validated by the Council of State – which remain to be defined. The contribution path must be constructed according to the accompanying arrangements chosen by the profession of lawyers and its pension fund. The reserves of the caisse, which will remain the owner of it, can be mobilized and the solidarity internal to the profession can intervene. I do not claim that we are close to the solution, but the Government has made very concrete proposals. We are actively seeking solutions and the General Assembly of the National Bar Council will consider our proposals on Friday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u307	Is that probably why the lawyers renewed their strike?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u308	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u309	The authors express their concerns about the bill. With regard to the modalities for the review of liquidated pensions, they were concerned that the review would take place only within two years of the award of retirement. Indeed, the unpredictable and random nature of the collection of copyrights should allow them to apply regularly for the liquidation of their pensions. On the other hand, up to 1 PASS, i.e. 40000 euros, the State budget will provide compensation from the employer. Between 1 and 3 PASS, however, the text is silent on the assumption of employer contributions. Is that to say that it will be entirely the responsibility of the artists-authors? In addition, they are not associated with the schemes of the minimum pension and the minimum contribution fixed at 600 times the hourly SMIC; They're asking to be. In addition to these concerns, Bruno Racine's report takes up the scandal of the failure to levy contributions to old-age insurance since the creation of the scheme in 1975. AGESSA, the Association for the Management of the Social Security of Authors, did not do its job and, on the grounds of its lack of resources, did not collect the contributions of some 190,000 artists-authors. What answer can you give them when Emmanuel Macron reminded them, at the Angoulême comic book show, that it was desirable, in the country that invented copyright, to better protect and pay those who create, and who sometimes find themselves in great precariousness? On the other hand, I am also sensitive to the precarious nature of the creators and producers of the current agricultural pensioners – but I will come back to that during the reform debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u310	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u311	The question of artists-authors is naturally central and demonstrates once again that it is possible to integrate professions with strong specificities into the universal system. Today, artists-authors contribute only as part of the wage share of the basic scheme; the employer share is financed by a contribution from the broadcasters of works, which is of limited scope, and, for the rest, implicitly by the solidarity of the other insured. Second, artists-authors contribute to their supplementary scheme on the basis of their artistic income. Let us be clear: tomorrow, artists-authors will continue to pay only the wage share in the universal system, under a ceiling as well as beyond. The employer's share under a ceiling will be taken over by the State. This will be more legible than the current implicit situation. With regard to employment-retirement cumulation, artists-authors, like all insured persons, will be able to liquidate their pension a second time in order to increase the amount. Finally, like other insured persons, I confirm that they will be entitled to the minimum pension. You also refer to the situation of contributions which, for many years, have not been called by AGESSA. In my view, the Government and that of the previous legislature have taken all measures to put an end to this untenable situation. We discussed this as part of the review of the Social Security Funding Bill. It is essential that all the contributions of the artists-authors are actually called and paid, and that their rights are effective, while continuing to take into account the specificities of this population of insured persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u312	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u313	Yesterday, I deplored the inequity of pension reform, the funding of which remains unthinkable without a thorough review of the emergency plans and the pardons granted to the public service. Today, I must regret that it is not more equitable than it is universal. Behind this reform, indeed, is a more worrying ambition of your Government. Secretary of State Olivier Dussopt was delighted to propose an unprecedented reform since 1945, and for reason: it is unprecedented that a government takes over an area which, until now, has not been within its entire remit. You're doing better than the Communists in 1945! This reform has no more universal name, which it brandishes as a standard to justify the absence of a revision of the pension system of statutory civil servants to the detriment of other professions – professional organizations which, once again, will be the silent victims of a Jacobin state taking over surplus professional funds. I would point out that the latter, unlike the ultra-deficit state, have made a great deal of foresight. Your reform is not fair and does not aspire to universality. It is merely a manifestation of a transfer of powers to a centralizing State, making as much use as it can of ordinances on scattered and delicate issues. The dismayed opinion of the Council of State underlines the weakness of your project, which risks in many ways being unconstitutional and that, in fact, you will have a thousand and a penalty to apply as it seems dogmatic and cut off from the real needs of the French. Mr. Djebbari has shown the small number of cases that the Government takes this view by stating that "it is the Government that governs in France, and the Government assumes its responsibilities before Parliament". It is in front of the French that I invite you, for decades to come, to assume the responsibilities of this ugly and iniquitous text, which the Council of State cannot even guarantee legal certainty. How does the Government intend to justify the actual pre-emption of surplus funds which, in recent years, have been demonstrated by their exemplary management, without the assistance of the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u314	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u315	You will understand that I do not agree at all with your analysis, Member. The system we are proposing is quite universal, since any euro contributed will open up the same rights to every Frenchman. We will all be integrated into the universal system, without exception, without specific features, without special regimes in particular. I repeat; It is a universal reform. Governance must be shared between the legislator and the social partners. It is this objective that we are entrusting to the conference on balance and funding: a discussion is under way to allow a return to balance, but I want to emphasise above all that the governance envisaged for the conference on balance and funding should be the same as that of the future universal pension system. There is no question of a Jacobin state, but of a governance entrusted to the social partners. The State will be present as an employer, as will the MEDEF as an employer in the private sector. Again, this is not centralized governance. On the other hand, the legislator will play its full role since the proposals made by the future governance of the system will be validated by parliamentarians, in order to ensure a balance for five-year periods and compliance with the golden rule that will be enshrined in the law. So I can only disagree with your analysis of the future system. First, it is universal; secundo, he's not a Jacobin. It is not a question of centralizing governance but, on the contrary, of trusting social democracy and the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u316	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u317	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u318	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u319	The next item is the questions on social housing and settlement policies. I would point out that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u320	Housing for disadvantaged people in the priority neighbourhoods of city policy – QPV – is a particularly sensitive issue. For local actors, including mayors, social donors and intercommunal groups, the challenge is to articulate the rehousing of priority audiences, as defined in article L. 441-1 of the Construction and Housing Code, with their desire to rebalance the sociology of populations living in QPVs. There are many, and equally legitimate, priorities. In addition to the public mentioned in the above-mentioned article of the Construction and Housing Code, account must be taken of the public eligible for social housing on the State quota, within the framework of the right to effective housing – DALO – and of the priority publics covered by the departmental action plans for housing and accommodation of disadvantaged persons. In addition to these priorities, rehousing within the framework of urban renewal operations, whose beneficiaries may find themselves in social situations similar to those mentioned above. Thus, it is complex to articulate and prioritize these many priorities, especially since their plurality is added to the diversity of decision-makers: the mayor – or intercommunality –, social donors and the state, especially within the framework of the DALO. Finally, the rotation of housing occupations within the VQs is faster than elsewhere. The temptation is therefore strong to accommodate the priority audiences, who are also those who need sustained social support. We are far from the intentions formulated by Manuel Valls in 2015, when he was Prime Minister, that housing should no longer be offered in the 1500 poorest neighbourhoods of France to the poorest households among those who are entitled to housing. My question, Mr Minister responsible for city and housing, is this: within the actors concerned, what role can the mayor still play in the decision to allocate social housing, in order to reconcile the rehousing of priority audiences and the essential rebalancing of the settlement in the QPV?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u321	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u322	Mr Vercamer, the question you are asking is very complex and of immense societal importance. We discussed it extensively during the review of the housing, development and digital development bill – ELAN. In short, the question you are asking is: if there are too many priorities, are the actors involved – the state, the mayors, those who build social housing, the funding partners such as Action logement and the social donors – able to cope with them without creating archipelagos where people living here in distress and there are people with much less difficulties? This is a global issue. I believe it is necessary to begin by noting that the system is still not working. The second is that the Act has attempted to address the problem, including the Equality and Citizenship Act, by requiring the allocation of a percentage of housing to priority audiences in PQ and non-PVQ. This system did not work because there were exemptions, which we repealed – remember – so that it would work a little better. However, this is still not enough. I agree with you that some things need to be changed. I will quote two provisions of the ELAN Act, which are essential to me. Firstly, with regard to the housing quota for employees, previously allocated to Action logement, if a dwelling did not find a tenant, it was handed over to the prefect, who allocated it to a household under the DALO. From now on, his responsibility is entrusted to the mayor. Second, it is no longer possible to use former hotels to provide emergency accommodation – the famous transformations – without the mayor's prior consent. This development seemed essential to me. In any case, I agree with you, Mr Vercamer: we must continue to move forward in this way. This is a task of investigation, particularly of the State vis-à-vis the prefects. I work on it every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u323	The next question is by Mr Francis Vercamer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u324	The general regulation of the national urban renewal programme implemented by the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU – regulates the arrangements for the reconstruction of the social rental offer following the demolitions undertaken in the framework of the urban renewal operations. In doing so, it applies the conclusions of the interdepartmental committee of 6 March 2015, stating in particular that this reconstitution must be carried out, as a matter of principle, outside the district of intervention and, more generally, outside the QPVs. Of course, there are exceptions to this principle. However, exceptions, which are limited in number, reduce the possibility of replenishing the supply of social housing in QPV that mayors can propose as part of their projects. Thus, the mayor is often subject to two contradictory injunctions: he must carry out a profound transformation of the neighbourhoods concerned, in particular by promoting the social mix and balance, while taking into account the legitimate wish of some inhabitants to continue living there, because they have their lives there, their social network and, for the older ones, many of their memories. These constraints are compounded by those imposed by the urban planning rules in force, in the context of the fight against global warming, rightly limiting the artificialisation of soils and urban sprawl. Thus, within the framework of an urban renewal project, some of the mayor's projects aimed at rebuilding the social rental offer on built but not yet urbanized land areas may be the object of a non-receipt. It is therefore possible that the reconstitution of the social rental offer is hampered, for reasons of social balance in the QPVs, and for urbanistic reasons outside QPV. Mr Minister, rather than detaining mayors in a restrictive framework, would it not be wiser to trust the territories in order to draw up, taking into account local specificities, projects aimed at restoring the social rental offer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u325	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u326	Mr Vercamer, thank you for your question, which, like the previous one, is very difficult. We all agree, it seems to me, on one point: in order to avoid the formation of the archipelagos that I mentioned earlier, we must absolutely achieve, in a given city, taken in the whole of its territory, to make the citizens live with one another and not with one another. It must be noted, however, that for decades we have created a system in which social housing is too often found here – attributed to households in very precarious situations as soon as they are freed by those who use the social elevator – and further away from much better estated areas. In this context, we all agree, it seems to me, to subscribe to the political vision – both nationally and locally – that social diversity must be ensured everywhere. On the other hand, it seems to me essential to achieve this not through the law, but by looking at the rules of the ANRU, the National Agency for Urban Renewal. I'm very attached to it. There is a legitimate wish of the people concerned, as you have said very well, Mr Vercamer. What do we see? When one destroys a tower and one proposes to its inhabitants to be relocated to another part of the city, most say: "You are very nice, what you do is very good, but I love my neighborhood and I want to stay there". There is therefore a democratic desire in this sense, which must be viewed against an imperative societal necessity which is no less so, imposing a collective effort in favour of the social mix of the population – I hate the term, but you understand me. In my view, this situation imposes a rule: to act with pragmatism. You have to accompany people. However, accompaniment implies that the rules of the ANRU must not be fixed. So we can transgress them and change them here or there, if the population shows a strong attachment to its neighbourhood, in order to find a way to renovate it, even if it does not meet the criteria you mentioned, or to accompany it at best, to ensure that it ends up feeling the desire to be relocated elsewhere. In this respect, the important thing is to show unwavering humanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u327	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u328	Mr Secretary of State, in terms of housing, we could agree together that we have three objectives. First of all, we are infusing a demand for justice. It is a matter of allowing everyone, each Frenchman, or at least as many people, to access the property. Then we feed an ecological requirement. This requirement requires the thermal renovation of dwellings, in order to ensure the control of energy consumption and to limit the consumption of land. The whole must be part of the necessary control of public expenditure. In this regard, I would like to address the question of the Pinel scheme, which benefits rather wealthy households. This is the conclusion of a report by the Court of Auditors published in 2018. Nearly a quarter of its beneficiaries are among the 2.3% of households whose taxable income is between EUR 71000 and EUR 151000. No doubt targeting is not entirely appropriate! The question that I am about to ask, we often ask ourselves, in Brittany, especially among the local elected representatives of medium-sized towns and rural territories. Shouldn't we adjust – to be clear – the base of the Pinel scheme and break down the credits thus obtained into the personalized assistance for home accession – APL accession – and the loan for social accession? Indeed, it is necessary to encourage the acquisition of property by young households, first-time graduates and French citizens of modest status. Secondly, while regional management is currently being tested in Brittany, would it not be preferable, for greater efficiency, to retain the level of intercommunality, which holds the competence in matters of habitat?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u329	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u330	Thank you, Mr Benoit, for being at the initiative of your group. The scheme initiated by the Minister, Mrs Pinel, here, is intended to support rental investment. I insist because my upcoming remarks might shock if they did not concern rental investment. It is not for me as a minister to comment on the way of life our fellow citizens choose. That's not my role. On the other hand, when I encourage our fellow citizens to invest their money in order to benefit from a tax deduction, this action must be part of a vision of spatial planning. Two years ago – I fully assume it because it is a political choice – I decided to put an end to the Pinel scheme in zones B2 and C and to replace it with another one that bears my name and is oriented exclusively towards rehabilitation. Why? Because, in my view, rental investment must contribute not to the expansion of the pavilion areas with large supermarkets, but to the revitalization of our city centres. This does not mean that adjustments cannot be made here or there. That's my role. Then, when you are a minister, whatever our political convictions – Mrs Pinel lived it as I did – you are confronted with zoning. However, the Denormandie device no longer gives rise to zoning. In Brittany, for the first time, we are conducting an experiment, which was expected, on the regionalisation of the Pinel system. I hope that we can extend it to the whole territory afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u331	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u332	All over the country, and the Ardennes department does not escape, we need to adapt the supply of social housing to the ageing population. In the Ardennes, we develop innovative solutions: in towns that offer all services, including medical and paramedical services, we offer social housing in the form of T3 pavilions with sanitary facilities suitable for people with reduced mobility and a small land that requires little maintenance and allows to eat outside when time permits; In cities, the social landlord Espace Habitat develops services such as concierge in collective buildings. Our department is experiencing great economic and demographic difficulties – we have lost more than 7,000 people in three years. I would like to thank you since the Government signed the Ardennes 2022 pact on 15 March 2019, which is beginning to produce its effects. In this context, I ask you for your ministry's support for our plan to offer vacant rental housing to senior citizens residing in tense departments that you will designate us, for example those of Île-de-France. Indeed, the value for money of life in our departments is favourable, and our offers are adapted. In addition, whenever seniors agree to live in our departments, they will free up social housing or places on waiting lists in a tense department – this is equivalent to building housing. This project responds to the demand of the population. It is obviously based on volunteering – it is up to us to seduce and convince. This is an opportunity for a territory like ours to attract new populations. Studies show this, we are able to do so, because ageing well in our department is a daily reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u333	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u334	Mr Warsmann, I would like to welcome your action in favour of this territory – we have had the opportunity to talk about it many times over the last two and a half years. I totally agree with you. Introducing more mobility into social housing is a very good idea, provided you don't do anything and use volunteerism. There is an ageing of the population in social housing. This is quite logical since many buildings were built forty or fifty years ago throughout the country. I am in favour of encouraging greater mobility. Do you know that the Social Housing Allocation Commission can allocate housing for the whole of life? She is not interested in the evolution of the tenant's property situation, in the family sense of the term – have the children left the home? Are you still a couple? – which could lead to a smaller dwelling with a lower rent. The ELAN law contains a provision – I take advantage of this forum to advertise it as important as it seems to me – which obliges the allocation commission to review the situation of the home and eventually offer the tenant another housing that he is free to refuse. Why not extend this scheme – this is the meaning of current work in collaboration with the Social Housing Union – by allowing housing to be offered in other places? It seems to me that the proposals must come from the person and those around him. Land change can succeed through community, not individuality. I stand at your disposal to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u335	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u336	We can all agree here that, in order to promote social diversity, a policy must be devised at the level of a city, a neighbourhood or even a building, accompanied by a variety of complementary actions, and applied in a differentiated way according to the areas of life. The equality and citizenship law set out the objective of promoting social mix and breaking ghettos. Some of the measures contained in it have been confirmed in the ELAN law when others, on the contrary – I regret it and we have already discussed it – have been reversed. The allocation of social housing which you have mentioned also raises the question of the production of such housing, on which I would like to ask you. I stress the need to ensure social diversity in this area. On the basis of the state of affairs that you have drawn up over the course of the questions, and which I share in part, what are you planning to improve concretely at the level of neighbourhoods and buildings in order to promote mobility in the social park? How do you plan to achieve, through legislation or regulation, the objective of fluidizing the residential routes on which we agree?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u337	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u338	With regard to the production of social housing, the figures for 2019 which we have just received show 109000 to 110000 approvals, the equivalent of last year. More importantly, in my view, this figure corresponds to the target that had been set in consultation with social donors in the very important agreement signed in April 2019. This agreement came about – let's call a cat a cat – after a first year of tensions between the Government and the social donors, linked to the finance law, after which I announced a re-visit clause. Faced with so many worries, we had to admit that we had perhaps gone too far. In any event, without accession, it is impossible to create a dynamic and our citizens should not suffer from it. After several months of constructive work, we agreed on the re-visit clause in which the target of 110,000 approvals per year was set. Despite the many doubts, we have managed to achieve this goal – I commend the work of social donors and state services. The same applies to the renovation, but we will return to it. We must continue, but we have taken an important step. As far as mobility is concerned, I replied to Members Benoit and Warsmann, but I insist that the ELAN law introduced the obligation for the allocation commission to review the situation of the occupants every three years – this is a very important provision. Finally, and I welcome all the work done by the presidential majority in this area, I will mention the development of the ANRU. Consider that for a year, 9.5 billion euros have been committed. Thanks to the decisions we have made, the cranes return to the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u339	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u340	As a follow-up to my previous question, I would like to go back to a provision of the ELAN law dealing with the sale of social housing. You may answer that his application is too recent, but I would like you to take stock of these sales. That was one of our differences in the debate on the ELAN law. You have opened up the possibility of selling social housing, including to the communes that are under the SRU law. In my view, this measure is not conducive to social diversity. Since the debate is about social housing and housing policy – like you, I don't like this expression – it seems to me important that you bring to our knowledge some elements – how many dwellings are sold? To whom? Where? – to know whether the improvements I mentioned earlier are not necessary on this point. If we really want to promote social mix in neighbourhoods and buildings, we need a panel of complementary measures in various areas: production, but also housing allocation, residential routes, social accession – zero-rate lending, LPA accession – and rental investments. We cannot consider housing policy under a single prism – I said it a few years ago and you will confess that I show consistency. Action on all segments is needed to achieve results.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u341	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u342	According to the latest figures that I have but are not consolidated – my services will pass them on to you – the number of sales would be around 10,000 compared to 7,000 before the ELAN law. The scheme is therefore increasing in power, but remains at a limited level in relation to the fears expressed by some during the discussions on the ELAN law. No obligation to sell is imposed on any organization – I have always said so. If sales are very useful in some places, they don't make sense in others. Again, a territorial approach is relevant. To facilitate operations, as agreed with Action Logement, we have created a National Sales Operator to which social donors who wish to apply to manage sales on their behalf. This organization was funded, in part, by the voluntary investment plan, which was the subject of an implementation agreement signed in April 2019. Third, and not least, as provided for in the ELAN Act, when a social lessor sells housing to an occupant or person eligible for the social park, he is obliged to take over the property if there is a problem for a period of ten years. The decree implementing the provision allowing a person to acquire the dwelling without first purchasing the common part was signed. This allows for the consolidation of the co-ownership by allowing time for everyone to assume their new functions, including co-owners. It is a great success.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u343	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u344	Thanks to the Government to which you belong, Minister, France has reached record levels, such as that of the number of ultra-rich: forty-one billionaires, while our country has 9.3 million poor. You have other sources of pride. The 25th report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre notes that 2 million families are waiting for social housing, which unfortunately will have to wait a long time, because due to the budget cuts the number of HLM financed has decreased by 13 per cent over the last two years. Social donors are forced to look for other sources of financing, including by selling housing, which is a heresy. France is also reaching a record number of families expelled with police recourse. 16,000 families were thrown out of their homes, sometimes without a decent housing solution. Your Government, instead of empowering families to live and pay their rent, is impoverishing them. You lower the LPA by 5 euros per month and, in total, by 3.9 billion euros per year, which directly penalizes two thirds of the beneficiary families. And as the cost of living increases, you decide on the quasi-freeze of housing subsidies for the year 2020. Would you like to beat your own record of the number of expelled families and poor people? Access to housing, which is a right, becomes a privilege with the policies you lead. Attacking tenants wasn't enough for you; you are also losing significant resources to the HLM offices, to the tune of 1.5 billion euros. However, 1.5 billion euros have been lost, which prevents social donors from maintaining, renovating and building housing and prevents tenants from living in dignified conditions. Some people are sometimes forced to put scotch on their windows to prevent the cold from coming back. Others only heat up a room in their apartment. Families no longer dare to organize birthday snacks for their children, when others suffer, for example, the invasion of bed bugs. When are you going to launch a real massive investment to enable the construction of 150,000 social housing units per year? When are you going to introduce an obligation to renovate housing so that it meets the low consumption standards and the dignity of tenants?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u345	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u346	Stay Zen, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u347	What bothers me, honourable Member, is that you are adoing your question to the real misfortune of many of our fellow citizens. I can assure you that I am confronted with it every day and that I rise every morning with the responsibility, among other things, of all those who sleep on the street. In your question, you have several numbers that constitute records. You could, of course, have chosen others, such as the fact that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, since I was Minister for Housing, has invested EUR 15 billion in social housing. This is a record; This had never been achieved before. You could have mentioned the fact that Housing Action has invested €24 billion since I was Minister for Housing – another record. You could also have said that the ANAH – the National Agency for Habitat Improvement – has doubled its activity in two years. In the economic field, this type of performance is called a unicorn, but since we are in the administrative field, it will not be put forward. Nevertheless, this is a record. The same applies to the Degraded Property Plan, which concerns tens of thousands of dwellings. In this regard, I welcome many Members present here – sitting on the benches of different groups – who have greatly helped us to develop this mechanism. The latter is now in private housing what the ANRU represented for social housing in the early 2000s. I could also mention the ANRU, which, in one year, invested EUR 9 billion in priority neighbourhoods in the city. Record, again. Just as I could talk about the housing plan first, thanks to which, in two years, we took 150,000 people out of the street. However, I dare not use the term I have used so far again; the gravity of the subject is such that it would be totally indecent. What interests me, honourable Member, is not the litany of the figures, but the means of improving the situation. For the past two and a half years, I have not been in the numbers but in the action. And I can assure you that I am weting my shirt, with the presidential majority, so that these records can be reflected above all in an improvement in the daily lives of the people around us, that is, the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u348	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u349	A year ago, in February 2019, the President of the Republic offered the press some images of his participation in a Maraude du Samu Social in Paris with the homeless. The grave, squatting mine is, in a way, a Thai king who was presented to us to mark the presidential will to make the fight against mal-housing a priority of the quinquennium. Yet behind this communication are figures – which unfortunately we cannot refute – and behind them are human realities, mentioned earlier by my colleague Mathilde Panot. Yes, it is still 4 million of our fellow citizens who are now ill-housed, including almost 143,000 homeless, to which are still added the 208000 people living in mobile housing in an unworthy precarious situation. This situation does, of course, not last and long will be the way to finally make effective the right to housing, a constitutional provision. But is it really by planing almost EUR 4 billion on the LPA that we can hope for a significant improvement in the situation? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] According to the latest report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre, whose rigour and determination I welcome, the causes are first of all structural. Between 1962 and 2020, we moved from an average of 3 people per household to 2.2 people. This trend implies the construction of an additional 7 million housing units, while at the same time the construction of social housing units is declining. How, then, is it that despite the record investments, which you have just told us about, the situation is still dramatic? And what do you intend to do by 2022 to meet the commitments of the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u350	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u351	Thank you, Mrs Rubin, for the tone of your question and the comments you made about the Abbé-Pierre Foundation; We were both at the presentation of this report last Friday, just like Stéphane Peu and other Members. You refer in particular to the question of emergency accommodation, referring to the words of the President of the Republic and to the maraud in which I had participated with him. Emergency accommodation, for which I have responsibility, is a very complicated problem – I say it with as much determination as with humility. As we speak, approximately 156,000 places are funded by the State and opened in collaboration with local authorities and associations. This represents the equivalent of the city of Brest, and this figure does not even take into account the other system, managed by the Minister of the Interior, for asylum seekers, which includes about 100 thousand places. So, what's very complicated is that we've never lived on so many places. Since 1 November, I have opened 13,000 additional places, about half of which are for women and families. However, hundreds of people remain on the street, with two consequences. This requires continued effort, with humility and determination, by opening up new emergency accommodation spaces; This shelter, at moment T, is essential. And it also requires the policy that I mentioned earlier, that the Fondation Abbé-Pierre has always supported, and that is the policy of housing first. This policy is tantamount to wondering how to put an end to the infernal spiral of alternation between emergency accommodation and the street and offer real housing. Many actions are being taken in this direction: twenty-three cities are currently within a territory selected for the accelerated implementation of the housing programme first, which has enabled us to get 150,000 people out of the precarious situation in two years. However, we must continue our action with great strength and determination, as the situation remains complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u352	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u353	I come back, Minister, on an issue that we have already raised together, that of personalized housing assistance. Since the entry into office of the Government, due to the decrease of 5 euros per month, the deindexation and the freeze of the LPA, its total amount has been reduced by 2.6 billion euros, half to the detriment of the donors and the other half to the beneficiaries. In addition, the measure of "contemporaneization" of the APL, which is contained in the finance law, will lead to a further decrease of about EUR 1 billion. Every time I ask you about this, you tell me that it is the economic recovery, the best health of our country and the fall in unemployment that will allow, with the contemporaneization of benefits, a less recourse to the LPA. However, studies by INSEE, OFCE – Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – or the Fondation Abbé-Pierre show that while unemployment is falling, poverty is increasing in our country, even reaching record levels with 400,000 more poor in 2018, which is as many potential beneficiaries. There is therefore no longer a correlation between falling unemployment and falling poverty; On the contrary, the opposite is the case. My question, which is part of the National Assembly's monitoring week, will therefore be simple: does the Government have an impact study on the contemporaneization of the APL? If the answer is yes, can you communicate it to the national representative, who did not have it at the time of the budget vote? In the absence of an impact assessment or objective measurement of the consequences of this measure, this would mean that budgetary considerations, rather than social considerations, presided over this decision. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Do you therefore have any information that can be communicated to the national representative? I have only partial information from the National Fund for Family Allowances, but it is very worrying. Of course, you have postponed the implementation of the reform until next April. But the month of April is tomorrow, Minister. We therefore have reason to be concerned, especially since it is abnormal that we do not have objective elements on the consequences of this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u354	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u355	The real-time payment of the LPA is a reform that first responds to a political choice. I think we all agree that the fact that the amount of aid is calculated on the basis of who you were two years ago is out of the question. While there are correction factors, they are imperfect. To take the concrete example of a retired young person who was still active two years earlier, the National Fund of Family Allowances will consider that he now receives 70% of the amount of his last salary – of which she is aware. However, many pensioners do not benefit from such a replacement rate; Therefore, these individuals do not receive an amount of LPA equivalent to what they would be entitled to. Similarly, self-employed people are not entitled to the LPA for two years, as the evaluation package excludes them. The same applies to some active youth who did not receive LPA when they were students. There are, in the end, many cases of this nature. It is therefore a real political reform, not a budgetary reform, even if it will be a source of savings because – we have already discussed this – we actually have 500,000 fewer unemployed and 300,000 more jobs have been created. As far as impact assessment is concerned, I will answer you two things. You know me enough, MP, to admit that I'm used to working with open books. Transparency is extremely important to me, and that is why we have presented the elements that you are talking about before bodies such as the CNH – National Habitat Council – or parliamentarians. For example, young workers under the age of 25 who are working in poverty, ranging from 0.3 to 1 SMIC, will be covered by a special scheme; We know it's necessary. Finally, I often hear that this reform of the LPA will lead to a positive or negative change in the amount of allowances for millions of people. But this is already the case: I estimate that in January, between 1 and 2 million people saw their aid increase or decrease. However, this was a function of what they were two years ago. It will now depend on what they are today; I think everyone can understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u356	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u357	More than ever, access to decent housing must be a priority. The attractiveness of our rural areas lies in access to public services, commerce and employment, as well as access to housing. Unfortunately, the major national urban policies of the last 20 years have had a perverse effect on rural areas. I am thinking in particular of the MAPTAM law – the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises – of 2014, the NOTRE law – on the new territorial organisation of the Republic – of 2015, the SRU law – on urban solidarity and renewal – of 2000, the Grenelle II law – on national commitment to the environment – of 2010, and the ALUR law – on access to housing and renovated urban planning – of 2014. All these laws, let us be sure, pursue a laudable objective: the fight against the artificialisation of the soil and for solidarity is a fight that we must all fight. However, the means provided for are not applicable to all the territories of France, which are not similar. The ALUR law, for example, restricted the consideration of hollow teeth and continuity plots of the building to the only perimeter defined as urbanized. This arrangement forces the possibilities of building and rehabilitating old buildings at the heart of the hamlets and will, in the long run, encourage potential buyers to re-enter peri-urban areas, thus creating new pressure. We are therefore far from the original objectives. I would remind you that, together with President Chassaigne, last July, we tabled a bill to adapt the regulatory constraints of urban policy in rural areas. Couldn't we, minister, try to relax settlement policies? In this regard, I am pleased to propose the territory of which I am elected to conduct an experiment aimed at better adapting them to the realities of rural areas. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Indeed, even if policies should encourage the renovation of vacant housing – of which I am a fervent advocate – these territories cannot be prevented from hosting new constructions, at the risk of marginalizing them and of increasing the demographic decline that some of them are experiencing – such as my department, the Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u358	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u359	I agree with you in every respect, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u360	Well, that's it! Let's move on, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u361	I will go even further: it is for this reason that my colleague Jacqueline Gourault and I wish, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic and subject to the necessary constitutional changes, to create an opportunity for experimentation and differentiation of all policies – and in particular urban policies – according to the territories. Your question inspires me two remarks. First of all, you evoke hollow teeth. Remember: we debated it during the adoption of the ELAN law, and I think I can say that we found the most intelligent system possible to allow construction in hollow teeth, respecting certain limits – in particular those imposed by the Act on Coastal Development, Protection and Development, known as the Littoral Law – but making real progress. However, the difficulty lies in the fact that the rules that had existed in the past, for example, to know whether a hamlet, in view of the number of habitats that make up it, can be regarded as part of a dense urban area – sorry to be technical, but you know these subjects by heart – remain applied locally, despite the instructions that have been given since. Thus, for the state, ensuring that the tools that parliamentarians decide to give to the territories then really apply is a real necessity. That's why I was in Pontivy the day before yesterday, with Jacqueline Gourault and our respective services, to meet all local elected officials. It's very important. My second point echoes the discussion that we will have about the artificialisation of the soil – I thank you for mentioning it, because it is in my opinion a real subject of society. It is said today that in many places you have to make the city on the city; I, too, am a strong advocate and today I announced the launch of a plan for a sustainable city. But it is also necessary to ensure that municipalities with today dense economic zones are not the only ones able to continue to develop in the future, to the detriment of those who would have space but could not build. A balance must be found and the cursor placed in the right place. I'm the guarantor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u362	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u363	The 2018 Finance Act had initiated a fundamental reform of the economic model of the social housing sector. The ELAN Act then created new tools to facilitate construction, protect the most fragile and encourage social organizations to modernize. On 1 January 2021, any social housing organisation managing less than 12,000 housing units will have to have joined a group of social housing bodies managing, together, a number of housing units above this threshold. In addition, the conditions of activity of social organizations have been relaxed, thanks in particular to the automatic transfer of geographical competence in the event of a merger or extension of their scope of competence. This measure aims to enable agencies to meet the ambitious goals of social housing and territorial housing policies reflected in the constructive pact between the social sector and the Government. Given the fact that only 8,000 social housing units were sold each year to the tenants of the social park, we worked to promote social ownership.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u364	By removing the APL accession?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u365	The Government has thus set an annual target of 40,000 sales of social housing, which has given us a goal to achieve in our reflection on measures to promote the sale of social housing included in the ELAN Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u366	Did you write the question, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u367	The law has made it easier for social donors to sell part of their assets, primarily to the occupants of the social park. We can welcome the first results, but much remains to be done. I would like to have an update on the restructuring of social housing organizations and to know the directions envisaged by the Government and Housing Action to achieve the target of 40,000 sales of annual social housing after the abolition of the LPA accession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u368	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u369	Thank you, honourable Member, not only for your action, but also for all the support you have given to housing policies for the past two and a half years. You are asking two questions: where are we in the grouping of social housing organizations, and how can we speed up sales of social housing? First of all, with regard to clustering, while some people had expressed doubts, I was convinced that they would do so simply because such initiatives had already been launched in many territories. For example, out of more than 300 organizations – companies, offices or others – affected by the measure, more than 90% have already started a grouping. So the process really works on the ground, and we are very careful to ensure that it is accompanied. We also facilitate sales of social housing by indicating that all the schemes adopted under the ELAN Act are now operational. I am thinking of the HLM National Sales Operator created with Housing Action, of the regulations that allow a resident to own his or her home while leaving the management of the common parts to the social lessor, etc. This publicity will enable real momentum to be set in motion and will continue to work with social donors to ensure that those who so wish benefit from these new mechanisms. This is really the meaning of the action of the State and our partners, such as the USH – the Social Union for Housing – or Housing Action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u370	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u371	Less than a week ago, in its twenty-fifth report on the state of mal-housing in France, the Fondation Abbé Pierre warned about the isolation and lack of accompaniment of homeless people. Ensuring the right to housing unconditionally and for all is a duty of solidarity – and because: as has been said, 4 million people remain poorly housed and 900000 people remain deprived of personal housing. Aware of this situation, you have made a full commitment, Minister, with the Government and the parliamentary majority, in the fight against homelessness and homelessness, with a constantly reaffirmed will: to enable all our citizens to live quickly and sustainably in decent and quality housing. This is the whole meaning of the Housing Plan first. Launched on 11 September 2017, it aims to find sustainable housing for the homeless, beyond emergency solutions: the construction of HLM at very low rents, rental intermediation or the strengthening of social support to and in housing are all major actions of this plan. The results are already visible: as you pointed out, in two years, more than 150,000 people have left the street or a shelter and have been able to access housing thanks to the plan we promote. I see it myself in my department of the Hauts-de-Seine. However, despite our efforts, the reforms and the unprecedented resources mobilized, much remains to be done, as the needs are important. Finding a lasting and dignified "home first" is an essential prerequisite for any integration into our society. We need to support fragile audiences, especially through the return to employment. Minister, you recently announced the launch of a public service "from street to housing," also known as "Samu de la rue". I would like to welcome this initiative, but would like to have concrete details on this mechanism. Can you tell us more about his planned experiment in Île-de-France, as well as about his objectives and his financing, estimated, I believe, at 3 million euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u372	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u373	As I indicated to your colleagues, I am convinced that the fight against homelessness requires not only a very strong commitment to shelter and emergency accommodation, but also the implementation of the housing policy first adopted by the presidential majority in this House. This policy has benefited 150,000 people in two years; The challenge now is to change the scale. This is the object of Act 2 of Housing first that we launched. Among the elements of the response, in addition to the increases in appropriations that you voted for and the additional support that we provide, a conviction leads me today to experiment with the creation of a "Samu from the street to the housing": to quickly accompany those accommodated in an emergency housing centre towards a sustainable housing, social workers specializing in accompaniment must come, when necessary, to support those who are already working in these centres – and who are doing a great job. Infrastructures, particularly in Île-de-France, already possess this competence and had experienced specific individualised accompanying actions to direct people to Housing first – I am thinking for example of the Habitat and Social Interventions Public Interest Group, the IP Group HIS. The creation of this system is, in a way, based on the same intuition that led, in the early 1990s, the founders of the social Samu – whom I salute – to wish to reconcile health accompaniment with emergency accommodation: I believe that today it is necessary to reconcile the accompaniment towards housing with emergency accommodation. The structure will have a budget of EUR 3 million, and 30 to 40 people will be recruited to be able to send specialised social workers to all emergency accommodation centres if they so wish to provide rapid support to the Housing first. This is the idea behind the "Samu from street to housing" and the experiment we are launching.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u374	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u375	In its latest annual report on mal-housing, the Fondation Abbé Pierre states that nearly 16 million people are affected, in one way or another, by the housing crisis in France – a serious and unworthy situation in a country like ours. Nevertheless, we have, for more than two years now, brought about concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u376	Of course...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u377	My speech therefore concerns one specific point: urban renewal. This is a comprehensive and ambitious policy that you have been pursuing since the beginning of this Parliament and which we support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u378	It was Jean-Louis Borloo who initiated her!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u379	You have opted for a strategy that is far more effective than urban sprawl, with social mix and the fight against poverty as the driving force. I welcome your initiative, Minister. Here I would like to recall several major schemes that have been deployed: since the launch in 2018 of the new national urban renewal programme, the NPNRU, 371 neighbourhood transformation projects have been validated. Considerable financial resources have been deployed to enable the reconstruction and rehabilitation of tens of thousands of social housing units. I am also thinking of the neighbourhood requalification programme or the Action cœur de ville programme, which aims to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants of medium-sized cities by strengthening their leading role in the development of the territory. More than 200 communities are now benefiting from this program. In the light of these elements, my questions are as follows: to what extent will the urban renewal undertaken strengthen the momentum towards greater social mix in the city centres, of which it is known that the most precarious populations are often pushed back to the peripheries? Do we currently have an initial assessment on this point, but also on strengthening the attractiveness of the so-called "fragile" neighbourhoods, in which there are nearly 1 million social housing units?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u380	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u381	I hope you will pay tribute to the work carried out by Jean-Louis Borloo...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u382	Two and a half years ago, when I was appointed, I announced that I wanted to make the Ministry of Housing the Ministry of Construction, of course, but also of the renovation – you have often heard me say it since. However, the renovation has for a long time remained, until today, the poor parent of housing policy. As proof of this, we will publish for the first time, in the coming weeks, a recurrent indicator of the number of dwellings renovated by public action – whether state-led or localised. It's essential: I want to be both the minister of renovation and the minister of construction. To answer your question, I will mention three points. The first concerns urban renewal. While we had committed €10 billion, the ANRU has granted close to €9.5 billion in financial assistance in one year, representing over 90,000 renovations, over 60,000 new buildings and nearly 250 schools whose renovations have begun. All these projects are very concrete: they have been signed, they are done. The scourge of condominiums is a second very important point to me: I devoted three weeks before the tragedy of the rue d'Aubagne in Marseilles, a plan of 3 billion euros. I have since gone ten times to Marseille to accompany the Marseillaises and the Marseillais in this event. This plan for the renovation of degraded condominiums was absolutely necessary. Like the ANRU's role in social housing fifteen years ago – and here I am a witness to my friendship with Jean-Louis Borloo –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u383	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u385	... it will make it possible to carry out a genuine policy of combating degraded private housing in condominiums. [[Smile]] Finally, the third axis is to accompany the renovation of individual housing units. I also thank the presidential majority, who voted for the mechanism that bears my name to allow investors to renovate, especially in the heart of the city. Do Denormandie in the old one, if I may say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u386	Jean-Louis Borloo, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u387	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u388	My question concerns unworthy housing, and particularly degraded condominiums, a priority and constantly topical subject: with 56000 housing units concerned, they are all families who live in unacceptable conditions. You have decided to "declare war on sleep merchants" – these are your own words, minister. This war must be waged collectively. For this reason, the ELAN law, adopted by our Assembly more than a year ago, provides for several measures, the aim of which is to exert considerable financial pressure on sleep merchants, to facilitate their identification and to increase the criminal penalties imposed on them. The latest court decisions in this area – as recently in Bobigny's court – result in increased financial penalties. To combat unworthy housing, you have also launched a new large plan mobilising more than 2.7 billion euros. This plan can only be effective if all the actors involved are involved. That is why you have entered into a ten-year partnership with them that focuses on prevention, transformation and the recovery of fragile situations. In the same vein, the project to reform the law of co-ownership provided, in condominiums over fifteen years of age, for the obligation to draw up a costed ten-year work plan and to make provision for some of the funds needed to finance them each year from a dedicated fund. However, the order of 31 October has stalemated on this essential measure. Minister, given the elements I have just mentioned, can you give us more details on the progress of this multi-year plan and take a first look at the "Unworthy Housing Info" telephone service that you launched very recently?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u389	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u390	Madam Member, I am not alone in this fight against sleep merchants; You yourself have invested a lot, as well as other Members from other parliamentary groups. The ELAN law, for the first time perhaps, has significantly strengthened the system of fighting sleep merchants. The latter are struck where it hurts, that is, the wallet. And as you have noted, these new provisions have effects: the Bobigny court has taken unprecedented sanctions, and that is very good. In 2019, 300 well-documented cases were sent to the public prosecutor's office. Not only do real estate agents and trustees now have an obligation to report sleepers, but certain provisions that are originally applicable to drug traffickers are now applicable to them, so that the acts they commit can be heavily punished financially. Justice is fully seized and I welcome the work we are doing in concert with the seal keeper in this area. But in addition to violently hitting the sleep merchants, we must also accompany those who are under their control. This is the purpose of the telephone number and accompaniment that we have set up, including the departmental housing information associations, which many here know. The number 0806706806 receives nearly 400 calls per week. By the way, I welcome the work done by the ADILs. As for the multi-year work plan, it is true that the order presented to the Council of Ministers does not mention it. We therefore propose that this issue be reintroduced when it is ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u391	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u392	The Act of 5 March 2007 recognizes the right, guaranteed by the State, to decent and independent housing for any person who is unable to access it by his or her own means or to maintain himself or herself. This right is exercised through an amicable appeal to the departmental mediation commissions and, if necessary, through an appeal to the administrative court. However, 13 years after its adoption, the administrative application of the right to effective housing has met with the test of fact and, at least, there are significant differences between departments. Prefectural quotas for social housing, an armed arm of the right to effective housing, are a striking example of a principle that is difficult to apply in practice. Depending on the territory, the number of dwellings allocated under this quota coincides only with one third or only half of the number of dwellings on which the prefects are able to exercise their right of reservation. Minister, I would like to ask you about these particularly incomprehensible disparities. More generally, can you tell us what policy you are pursuing, on behalf of the Government, with regard to the settlement of these islands?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u393	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u394	Madam Member, your question, which is in line with those put by several of your colleagues, is incredibly difficult, because it relates to the distinction, which many here know well, between the formal rights imposed by the law and the real rights. Fourteen types of public are priorities under the DALO, the right to effective housing: they are so numerous that it is, at the end of the day, very difficult to grant them priority housing because, if I dare to say – and I say it very seriously – everyone becomes a priority. We must never lose sight of the objective of stopping adding insecurity to insecurity. The state – I say it with great humility – is sometimes schizophrenic in the instructions it gives to the prefects: even as I fight every day to stop aggravating the situation of the most difficult territories, it is here that most of the people who are sheltered – and who absolutely must be – are precisely sent. However, it is hardly easier to open a gymnasium there than in a better equipped territory! This means that we have not yet achieved the political objective that I have set myself. We are making real progress, however. In this respect, the ELAN law – for which you have invested a lot – contains improvements, such as the quota of people with work. We must continue in this direction: the ministers, and I in particular, must give the prefects very clear instructions on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u395	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u396	For several years, successive governments have imposed on communities the production of social housing. With this in mind, the SRU Act requires most municipalities to make up 25 per cent of the residential stock of social housing. The objective is sometimes difficult to achieve because of a lack of available land – as is the case in Villeneuve-les-Béziers in my constituency – and sometimes because of a lack of investors, not to mention the fact that the finances of public offices are very constrained. We are told that this objective is justified by a shortage of social housing. If this is true for some agglomerations, this is not the case, for example, for Béziers. In my city, the number of social housing units was exactly 6750 in 2018, and the number of housing units allocated that year was 912. But if the number of applications for social housing amounts to 3215 – a high figure – it is important to know that no less than 50% of the housing offered is refused. Would they be in poor condition or built in areas not suitable for applicants? Not at all: they often refuse new social housing located in pleasant neighbourhoods, and these housing units therefore remain vacant. Why? Because social housing doesn't have a good press...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u397	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u398	... and that applicants prefer to live in the private sector, where rents are often the same as in social housing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u399	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u400	...Beziers not aware of rental tension. Why, while the current trend is to take into account territorial specificities, does the SRU law impose the same standards on cities and in totally different situations?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u401	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u402	Madam Member, I will give you two points of answer. First of all, you said at the moment, approved by other Members, that social housing is not a good press, but on the contrary, it must be said that social housing is often also synonymous with excellence or innovation. Thus, when it comes to the control of thermal colanders, it is far more advanced than private housing. Today, we find in social housing new buildings of very high quality, and sometimes very innovative. I repeat, therefore, that it is important to stress its excellence in many areas. Secondly, your question refers to a debate that we have had with a large number of you as to whether the provisions of the SRU law need to be relaxed here or there. For my part, I consider that not – even though I think I have demonstrated my commitment to territorialized policies and territorial pragmatism. I believe that the SRU law is an absolutely necessary political signal to remind everyone of the urgent need to continue to produce social housing. In doing so, I am well aware that some communities that are experiencing particular difficulties or less stress in housing do not understand why they have not been exempted from their housing obligations – indeed, the exemptions that I have made this year are limited in number. I accept this, because it is important to state clearly the urgent need to continue to produce social housing throughout our territory, since 80% of the population is now eligible. It also means working to improve the image of social housing – I refer you to this point at the beginning of my answer. The pragmatism that we have tried to demonstrate in many ways also requires a certain degree of firmness in the application of the SRU law. We have already had the opportunity to talk about this on many occasions in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u403	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u404	Minister, I would like to warn you that the policy on demolishing social housing is inadequate when it is not part of the new national urban renewal programme. However, demolition is sometimes necessary in an aging park, where housing is often poorly isolated or unadaptable to current requirements. A call for projects, with interesting funding, was launched last June by Housing Action. The response to the candidate donors, which was to be given in November, was initially postponed to December and then to January, and there is still nothing to see coming. Candidate donors legitimately question the reasons for this delay, especially since Action logement, let us recall, is an organisation financed by a tax levied on employers. In addition, in order to demolish housing in non-stressed areas, the State announces aid amounting to EUR 5000 per dwelling, distributed through the DREAL, the Regional Directorates for the Environment, Planning and Housing, and the DDT, the departmental directorates of the territories. But the department-wide staffing is so low – especially in my home, in Meurthe-et-Moselle – that the number of cases that can be funded is very small, not to say ridiculous. In concrete terms, these EUR 200000 or EUR 300 000 make it possible to process 40 or 60 housing units, which is very insufficient in view of the ambitions of the donors and the projects they have drawn up. The two towers alone, the demolition of which will complete the urban renovation of the Niederbronn-Zola district in Lunéville, total sixty-four dwellings! It is damaging that the funds for construction and demolition are not fungible. Thus, in 2019, while my region for the first time under-consumpted the appropriations for new construction, it could not spend the remainder to finance demolitions, which would have been welcome. However, without demolition, it is sometimes not possible to build assisted housing for those in need, resulting in less activity in the building sector and thus penalising local employment. Minister, how do you intend to adapt your policy to the reality of our territories and to the needs of our people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u405	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u406	Even if it is not always obvious to assume it politically, demolition is sometimes necessary. It is good that the local elected representatives or Members of Parliament remind them of this, and I thank you for having done so. [[Smile]] The subjects you are talking about are very technical and the answers I will give you cannot reach the level of precision required, but I can already present the axes I have indicated to all my teams. I also remain at your disposal to talk about it – even if I dare not invite you to the ministry because, whenever I do, you say that I do not invite you, or you do not come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u407	[[Riressur several benches in the LR group]] You only invite your friends to the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u408	Let's stay serious, Mr. Bazin! First of all, with Housing Action, we agreed to provide assistance for about 40,000 demolition operations. A huge amount of funding is therefore available, particularly in the relaxed territories. With regard to the call for projects you are quoting, I do not know exactly when the result will be known. I hope, however, that things will go very quickly. I can't be blamed for not putting a lot of pressure in the tube,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u409	He's gonna freak out!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u410	[[Smile]] ...and so I'm going to find out when exactly the toothpaste will come out. With regard to your second question, concerning the redeployment of funds under the FNAP, the National Stone Aid Fund, I do not have the answer either, but I will inquire and we will answer you specifically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u411	Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u412	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u413	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u414	Minister, first of all, I thank you for being here to answer our questions on this very important subject. I would like to ask you about the RLS, the reduction of solidarity rent, a fairly technical matter. This scheme provides for a transfer of expenses from the Family Allowance Fund to social donors: the rent and LPA fall, the difference being borne by the donors. In the Ardennes, the cost of the SLR was €2.4 million in 2019 and €3.7 million in 2020. This arrangement was initially reserved for tenants who benefit from the LPA. For 2020, the finance law provides that it will also apply to those who do not benefit from it, which leads – let me put it this way – to an increase in the rating for social donors. The rating increases all the more for donors as the ceiling is very low for tenants. Minister, I would like to know whether you are aware of the situation and whether there are any mechanisms to assist these social donors. This policy of reducing the rent of solidarity leads, of course, to a widening of their deficits, which has led to an increase in rents in the Ardennes department. This question is quite specific, and I can understand that you do not have all the elements of the answer. In this case, I could accompany my colleague Thibault Bazin when he goes to the department to attend a technical meeting...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u415	I'll be right with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u416	[[Smile]] We're gonna have to charter a bus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u417	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u418	[[Smile]] I love inviting my right-wing MP friends to technical meetings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u419	You've never invited me before! I'm still waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u420	Mr Cordier, you are referring to a problem that – unless we are mistaken, but we are going to check – is already dealt with in the finance law. Remember, we felt that the application of the SLA should not depend at all on the number of tenants benefiting from the LPA – to whom this scheme is intended – in the social park. Because otherwise, many donors might decide not to choose their tenants from these beneficiaries! All of them in the Chamber referred to this risk. In the calculation of the rent compensation, equalisation has therefore been provided for among all social donors so that the SLA is applied at the same level regardless of the percentage of persons benefiting from the LPA within the social park. The situation you are referring to suggests that there is something wrong with equalization in your territory. We will examine this particular case. This is the first time that such a problem has been brought to my attention; I therefore dare to believe that the law has been applied without difficulty in most of the territory. That was the spirit of the law as we discussed it together – and I stress that, on all benches, MPs agreed. The application of the SLA does not depend on the percentage of LPA beneficiaries in the social park because otherwise some people who need the scheme would have been deprived of it, and this was not discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u421	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u422	Today, there is a shortage of housing which particularly affects our citizens with low incomes or belonging to the so-called middle classes. This finding is without appeal. The law does not encourage the owners of the private rental park enough to rent their property. However, there are levers for action to remedy this situation and to emerge from a binary opposition between social housing and private housing and a zoning policy which, alas, has exacerbated the imbalance between our territories. These levers can be tax-based. I am thinking, for example, of the exclusion from the property tax base of real estate leased for a principal residence – with, of course, a framed rent – a measure that would improve the supply and reduce the tax burden. These levers can also be territorial because it seems to me that a socially balanced settlement policy must involve a more attentive listening to our mayors. These local elected representatives, through their in-depth knowledge of their territory, should be placed at the heart of housing policy, for example by obtaining a minority of blockage in decisions on the allocation of housing or the possibility of suspending the application of the SRU law, since it is uniform and does not take sufficient account of the specificities of each territory. A socially balanced settlement policy requires the development of the intermediate housing sector within the priority areas of city policy. This would help to combat the effects of ghettoization and fluidize residential routes. Instead of pursuing a comprehensive policy, however, the Government proceeded on an ad hoc basis, by powdering. It has certainly made a change of course, rather beneficial, by partly returning to the disappearance of the zero-rate loan when acquiring new housing in zones B2 and C, a measure which would have forced many households, often modest, to give up their housing projects. At the same time, however, it repeals the accession LPA for the year 2020, a mechanism that had proved its worth in helping the first-time applicants. Minister, where is coherence? Where are the Government's priorities? Where is the fiscally and socially balanced supply of housing in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u423	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u424	[[Smile]] As Aimé Jacquet would say, muscle your game, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u425	Your question is very broad. With regard to the search for coherence, I have already responded, in some respects, in my previous interventions, for example, by stating that, since my assumption of office almost three years ago, renovation has been one of my ministry's priorities, at the same level as new construction. That seems extremely important to me. Not that I am an ayatollah of renovation – although... – but renovation is an issue in many territories. As you have expressed very well in your question, the territorial realities are very diverse. A city centre that is dying is a fatality that I will never, ever, let go. Because every time a heart of a city goes down, it's a little bit of French identity that's dying. My choice to make the renovation a priority has led me to take some blows because it has led me to put an end to the Pinel system in zones B2 and C, a decision that some have not appreciated but which I assume. My efforts have focused on the Heart of the City Programme, for which €5 billion has been made available under the scheme bearing my name. There is true coherence here, which is also reflected in our ambition to facilitate the social acquisition of property, within the framework of the renovation programmes, for the households you were talking about. With regard to the second point you are referring to, we will probably not agree – and that is very good: as I was just saying to Mrs Ménard, I believe that the SRU law must be retained in all its ambition. You also mentioned access to the property. Your political family, including President Sarkozy, advocated a "France of Owners". I believe that people should be allowed to choose, my role being to accompany them. I'd be very happy to discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u426	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u427	I also thank you for being here with us and taking the time to answer us in such an exhaustive way. In ten years, the cost of land has increased three times as fast as the cost of housing. The ELAN law aimed to develop joint land offices, the SFOs, to remove the obstacles to social ownership by ensuring a significant reduction in the price of land, which had become a particularly important obstacle for the working and middle classes. This is all the more true in the tense areas, where there is a growing need for social mix. While social housing organisations are now encouraged to set up solidary land offices, we in the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement believe that emphasis should be placed on all the tools that can enhance residential mobility, even beyond social housing. This is also one of the objectives of Mr Lagleize's excellent bill, which provides for the creation of free land bodies, OFLs, inspired by the OFS, to open up to all French people access to property. What are the results and development directions of these SFOs, Minister, and do you have any information on the deployment of LFOs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u428	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u429	I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the work done by your group, and in particular by Jean-Luc Lagleize, on the issue of LFOs. I would like to go back to some of the points that you mentioned and which I think are important. We have said everything and its opposite about the objective of the bill that was passed by the Assembly at first reading. It is not a question of reducing the right to property, but simply of considering whether, today, everything has been conceived to ensure that housing is affordable. One solution is to separate the land, which would remain a public property – I insist on this point because that was the meaning of the bill – and therefore could not be the subject of any speculation, and the building, full property of the inhabitant. Would this make it possible to offer affordable housing? The answer is yes. So why don't you take it away? On the other hand, as we have seen in the discussion on the bill, a great deal of technical work is needed to prevent speculation or any consequences that would not benefit the inhabitant. We have therefore decided to take the necessary time, which is why, in particular, we have chosen to legislate by ordinances. Finally, about SFOs, I have a special thought for poor pensioners. The tragedy that many of them are experiencing is that after paying rent for their entire lives, they still have to pay once they retire. A real solution to this problem would be to offer them the possibility of owning their buildings and no longer having to repay the loans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u430	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u431	Each year, only 8,000 social housing units are sold on a 4.5 million housing stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u432	The goal was to sell 40,000!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u433	To increase this figure, considered to be far too low, the ELAN Act now offers specialized tools to encourage HLM organizations to sell housing more easily, especially to their occupants. A key objective of this law, the development of HLM housing sales allows people living in social housing to acquire it and become owners. With the application of the Order of May 7, 2019 relating to the sale of housing units owned by housing organizations with moderate rent to natural persons with deferred application of the status of the condominium, the sale companies of housing with moderate rent thus make their entry into the code of construction and housing. The law also relaxes the terms of assignment. The social lessor may freely fix the selling price, without the intervention of France Domaine, by taking as a reference the price of a comparable dwelling occupied. However, a veto is granted to the mayor if the municipality has not reached the rate of social housing provided for by the SRU law or if the sale has brought it below. In the Yvelines department, 18.6 per cent of housing is social housing and the share of households owning their main residence is 58.9 per cent, which is fairly close to the national average. Does the Government have any data that it could provide us with regarding the number of people who have become owners of this system? To what extent have social donors dealt with this? Have some mayors claimed their veto power?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u434	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u435	First of all, the issue of sales must certainly not be imposed on all territories. In some of them, it is important to have the opportunity to sell, in others, it is much less relevant. Again, the decision belongs to each social lessor. My teams, whom I greet by the way, are doing a work to accompany the sales plans drawn up within the framework of the CUS – the conventions of social utility. To answer to you about the current situation, according to the most recent figures available, which are not yet consolidated, there are about 10,000 sales per year. We will be able to tell you what proportion of these 10000 sales are of the dwellings that were acquired by the tenants themselves and that of the other persons eligible for the social park. Second, mayors have had a veto right since the enactment of the ELAN Act. On the other hand, I do not know how many of them exercised it. We have little feedback from experience, but as soon as we have data, we will communicate it to you. Finally, the third element, the legislative provisions or the stipulations of the agreements that we have concluded with the social donors – I am thinking of the national sales operator, the regulations that allow the purchasers to be accompanied – are also operational and the reports broadcast in recent weeks have shown tenants who have become owners satisfied with the provisions that you have voted for, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u436	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u437	The ELAN law of 23 November 2018 had an ambitious objective: to build more and to build better. In order to do so, many measures were planned, some designed to alleviate existing procedures, sometimes complex and unreadable. It was also envisaged, through the creation of territorial revitalization operations – ORT – to intervene in a concerted and cross-cutting way to revitalize the city centres with projects covering several areas: housing, urban planning, trade, the economy and social policies. For example, legal and technical measures have been taken to facilitate the transformation of offices into housing. Similarly, the hierarchy of standards and urban planning documents has been simplified. The Act also provides donors with specialized tools to facilitate the sale of housing, particularly to their occupants. They can also develop complementary activities to meet specific needs in their territory: urban engineering or management service. I welcome the establishment of these mechanisms, which will ultimately enable the social housing sector to be better adapted to the needs of everyone. Finally, the ELAN law also required social donors managing less than 12,000 housing units to regroup before 1 January 2021, i.e. tomorrow. However, as of August 1, 2019, of the 607 existing organizations, 357 had not the required size and had to merge within the year. Three hundred and twenty-nine organizations were involved in a union project, but only about ten were involved. The logic in fact encourages these organizations to local rapprochements, which are in fact often hampered by rivalries within the territories. So, Minister, what can we draw from the application of these various provisions, in particular with regard to the merger of social donors? Are any adjustments planned, in the long run, if this grouping system does not produce the expected results?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u438	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u439	As of 1 January 2020, of 613 organizations, 339 were subject to this obligation. Almost 90%, as I said, are already involved in a reorganization project. Some 13% completed their project, compared to 8% in October 2019 – which shows that the projects are progressing well. And, remember, the ELAN law has created coordinating societies, the famous SACs, whose specificity is that it is the girls who own the mother and not the mother who owns the girls – I hope you follow me... But more than 30 SACs are being created for a total of 120 organizations – so the system works and even works well, which does not surprise me at all because the local dynamics already existed. Then you mention several provisions of the ELAN law aimed at simplifying the procedures. Be aware that ten days ago, I presented to the Council of Ministers the order to rewrite the legislative part of the Construction and Housing Code. Well, let's face it, I proposed to delete, from memory, 66 articles out of about 220, that is to say, one page out of four. We anticipate the same simplification for the regulatory part. We are here beyond simplification, it is indeed a paradigm shift: the code will now set the goals and not the ways to achieve them. That's the commitment I made; He is now in the process of being held.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u440	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u441	In the area of housing, adapting supply to demand depends, in the end, on the adaptation of supply to existing demographics or trends. For several years, successive governments have only observed and accompanied a phenomenon of metropolization that is ever more concentrated in the same places. Our cities are burgeoning and crumbling under the problems caused by overconcentration: traffic problems, security problems – linked to anonymity – and, of course, housing crisis. Then we legislate to solve these problems, the housing laws follow each other and adapt so that we build more and higher. Solutions are proposed to free land, to control prices, but in the end, this problem is only magnified by ever more concentrated. This phenomenon of metropolization forces even to spend sometimes without counting. The Grand Paris project is the perfect example: from 19 billion euros in 2013, we reached 35 billion dollars today! In the meantime, our countryside is emptying, our small towns are dying and our public services are disappearing because of the lack of users. In these neglected territories, supply is not the problem, but demand. How many empty dwellings? As I said, the offer follows and must adapt to demographics. Do you not think that perhaps it is time to upset or even reverse these demographic movements? Isn't it time to change software? You know that apart from family roots, it is employment that can retain or even attract people to these fragile territories. Do you not think that redeploying some of the development costs associated with metropolization in order to encourage the establishment of activities in these territories would solve at least some of the housing problems and imbalances that they are experiencing? Do you not think that spatial planning policies should be reconsidered in order to better adapt housing supply, without necessarily building but simply recovering empty housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u442	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u443	It will be very complicated to answer your questions in two minutes. I am convinced that the evolution of French demography is a huge opportunity for us because our population, compared to that of all European countries – with the exception of Ireland's memory – is growing everywhere or almost everywhere. Indeed, in Spain, Italy and Germany there are demographic flows from one part of the country to the other. However, the demographic dynamism of France is not sufficiently emphasized. A few years ago, when I taught rural genius, we were told that there was Paris and the rest of the territory, that there was a metropolis, Paris, the rest being rural. However, we have moved from a metropolis to metropolises and rural areas to rural areas, which is already a real step forward. Why am I so attached to Action Cœur de ville? It is because I am convinced that the time has come to talk about centralities and rural areas. And in order to reinvigorate these centralities – which may be sub-prefectures – there is a need for, and I agree with you on this point, a very coordinated action between a powerful policy not on housing but on housing and an economic policy. At the same time as Action Cœur de Ville, we launched Operation Territories of Industry. Now we have to pair the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u444	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u445	That's what I'm applying to day-to-day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u446	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u447	I would like to ask the minister a question written by our colleague Joaquim Pueyo. As many colleagues have pointed out, the issue of social mix is not a thing of the past. Many governments have tried to remedy the ghettoization of some neighbourhoods. Some people choose to see ethnic groups. Yet it is the precariousness or even poverty that affects the majority of the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. Apart from this, some geographical areas are affected by the desertification effect of city centres, even though these were the economic lung of medium-sized cities. Between these two issues, there is a link that requires our attention. With regard to city centres, one of the objectives of the National Action Cœur de Ville plan, launched in December 2017, is to rehabilitate and restructure them in order to develop an attractive housing offer in the city centre. With regard to the need for social mix, measures have been taken under the Equality and Citizenship Act, passed in 2017, and the ELAN Act, passed in 2018. In particular, the first had introduced the allocation of 25 per cent of social housing, outside priority neighbourhoods, to poor applicants. Other measures have been taken to encourage landlords to rent their property to the more precarious populations. Among other things, the National Habitat Agency proposes a scheme – Rent Better – whereby an owner commits to renting his or her home to people with modest resources for affordable rent. In return, it receives attractive taxation and financial aid to renovate its property. However, these benefits do not fully affect Area C, which can be agreed but drastically limits its application in medium and rural cities. There is therefore a question of incentives, but also of the attractiveness of medium-sized cities that would benefit from revitalisation through access to housing, particularly in the city centres. Minister, what steps can be taken to respond to these two demands: on the one hand, the need for medium-sized cities to attract people in order to revitalize the city centres and, on the other, to foster social mix?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u448	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u449	How to revitalize the city centres? It's been one of my big fights for two and a half years. We launched the Action cœur de ville plan – €5 billion – which led a housing policy by revitalising housing as well as commercial activity. I will take one example: the ELAN law provides that, in addition to the Action coeur de ville programme, any mayor who signs an ORT may stay at the installation of a XXL supermarket in the periphery whose presence would kill the local business. To go further, we have created a tax system, which bears my name, to rehabilitate the city centres. Then, in the coming days, I will present a road map on how to go even further in the fight against housing vacancies. It will be a question of identifying the owners concerned and accompanying them – in particular to help them to renovate their homes when they cannot afford them. There is also a question of the owner's responsibility: that an owner who has a vacant dwelling give at least the keys to an association that will manage it, will guarantee everything, including its rehabilitation. I am thinking of devices like Rent solidarity, for the benefit of those who need to stay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u450	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u451	I would like to ask you, Minister, a question from Brigitte Kuster, Member of Parliament for Paris, on the problematic allocation of social housing in the capital. The allocation commission consists of representatives of the social lessor, representatives of the city of Paris and representatives of the State. In fact, the mayor of boroughs, yet close to the land, and the city of Paris share the allocation of few social housing, compared to the prefectural quota, which concerns one third of the housing aided. In the 17th arrondissement, for example, we are talking about a hundred dwellings a year allocated by the local mayor of the district. The responsibilities are not always consistent with the borough concerned: they are not always based on geographical links, and some files do not meet revenue expectations. The consequence is that the borough mayor is not sufficiently consulted or involved in public settlement policy in his borough. Moreover, there is sometimes a lack of cohesion. In this way, we see the emergence of neighbourhoods where settlement policy has degraded quality of life and security because of the blindness of attributions. However, the borough mayor could have made use of his expertise and the risks would have been reduced. Finally, of the 30% share reserved for the State, up to 5% of these dwellings are allocated to public officials. This ceiling, Minister, complicates the accommodation of police, firefighters and nurses in Paris where, for them, the rents outside the social park are too high. However, these people should be accommodated as close to their workplace as possible, for obvious reasons related to the safety of Parisians. So how do you plan to promote emergency housing and bring the district mayor closer to the allocation of social housing to enable a coherent policy? Does the future "3D" law – for decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – promise greater decentralization of settlement policy, allow for greater confidence in borough mayors?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u452	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u453	Should social housing policy be further delegated to the territories? That is the question you have just put. I believe I have shown my support for greater territorialization of housing policies, including their fiscal aspects. This is the sense of experimentation that we are currently conducting in Brittany. Should social housing policies also be decentralized? We would not start from anything: for example, the delegation of aid to the stone is already in place. I am open to a debate on this subject, but I stress that if social housing policy is to be decentralised, it must be decentralised entirely. In other words, if tomorrow we decentralize, for example, the social housing policy, which includes social housing and emergency housing, that would mean that the responsibilities arising from the law establishing the right to effective housing should be accepted locally. I would point out that, because it does not comply with this law, the State pays a fine of EUR 50 million every year to the National Stone Aid Fund. The total decentralization of emergency housing policy would also pose problems for some territories under more pressure than others. Clearly, I do not have the miracle solution, but, if I am very much in favour of a much more decentralized housing policy, I expect to see what the various associations of elected officials and mayors will say. I repeat, if we decentralise social housing policy, we cannot do it half-way and simply get aid to the stone. It will also concern the power to build, if I may say so, and, consequently, the obligations attached to it, whether they result from the DALO law, from the needs of emergency accommodation, or from other devices that are all very complex to implement. As part of the preparation of the 3D Act, these issues are currently being discussed with the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. I take this last answer to thank you all. It's always a pleasure to come and chat with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u454	Fun shared! Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u455	We have completed the questions on social housing and settlement policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-05-O1135.u456	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours forty-five: Questions on the financing of transport infrastructure. The meeting is adjourned.
