ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u1	The next item is the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for research and higher education (No 3399, Annexes 33 and 34 ; No 3398, Volume X; No 3400, Volume XIV; No 3459, Volumes IV and V). Mr Chouat, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u3	As we knew, the interlocking crises that hit France, Europe and the world – the health crisis, the crisis of globalisation, the economic and social crisis, the climate crisis, the crisis of democratic confidence in progress – propel research, innovation and knowledge to the heart of their resolutions, both in urgency and in time. We knew it before we even faced them, but we delayed, when others accelerated. We knew that, and that is why we must all rejoice that 2021 marks the departure of a powerful public and private effort, after three years of catch-up budget, to bring research and the scientific community up to the national and European challenge that we set out in the research programming bill under consideration in the Senate. With this draft budget, with the recovery plan, with the fourth investment programme of the future – which is itself new – with the Horizon Europe programme and the State-region plan contracts, we will be launching the rearmament of organizations, laboratories, researchers and partner research in 2021, in order to give them the real and lasting means of their ambitions. Thanks to them, we will succeed in regaining our position of great power on the international scientific scene. During the twenty-three hearings I conducted as part of the preparation of this special report, I measured the expectation of the new tools – such as the junior professor chairs – that will create a real shock of attractiveness for French research. The agreement reached on 12 October last by the Government and the majority trade union organizations will thus enable the remuneration of young researchers to be increased by EUR 92 million per year until 2027, as well as the careers of researchers, research teachers and research personnel. This draft budget does not just reinforce the momentum that has been in place since 2017: it reinforces it considerably. I will support this statement with two observations. First, at constant scope, research appropriations increase by 2.25% in commitment authorities. The resources of programmes 150 and 172 are up by EUR 165 million and EUR 224 million respectively in payment appropriations, while the decrease in appropriations under programme 193 is only due to the termination of the repayment of the French debt to the European Space Agency. The decline in appropriations under programme 192 is due to a scope measure, since the Bpifrance programme of aid for the development of innovation will be financed by the fourth investment programme for the future. Secondly, the major operators of public research are the main beneficiaries of these increases in appropriations. In accordance with the draft law on the programming of research under consideration, the ANR – the National Research Agency – will see its allocation increased to more than 1 billion euros in payment appropriations in 2021, with the ambition to significantly improve the success rate of its calls for projects, which will rise from 16 to 23%, or 7 more points in record time. At the same time, research enhancement schemes, such as CIFRE – industrial training agreements through research –, industrial chairs, LabCom and Carnot institutes, will grow in power. Of course, everything is not settled. Despite these significant increases, some operators – I am thinking for example of IFPEN, IFP Energies nouvelles, or INSERM, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – are unable to stem the erosion of their workforce. Indeed, the decline in their own funds and recurrent loans, coupled with the burden of technological ageing, forces them to shift part of these increases towards the stabilisation of their jobs, even though their prerogatives have been extended. That is why I have tabled an amendment – which I am submitting to our debates, and in your opinion, the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation – to accompany these operators in 2021, so that they can not only stabilize their workforce, but also carry out the employment scheme provided for in the research programming bill, which is an additional 315 full-time equivalents. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, given that the funds dedicated to dual research are now included in the recovery plan, we will have to ensure that they are sustained beyond their lifetime. Finally, I stress that the very important effort this budget will make must also be addressed through complementary funding tools. I am of course thinking of the recovery plan, which alone provides for a combined effort of EUR 4 billion for research over three years, including EUR 428 million for the acceleration of the ANR's trajectory. In addition, the "Investments for the Future" mission will contribute, through the IAP4, to the long-term support of research and innovation to the tune of EUR 16.6 billion in commitment authorisations. The Horizon Europe programme, worth EUR 91 billion, and the State-region plan contracts will also be a major part of the regionalised research and innovation effort. Finally, the research tax credit, the first tax expenditure with 6.5 billion euros, and the "innovative young business" scheme have proved their worth in times of crisis; If they are likely to deserve an in-depth audit, they must first and foremost be preserved. I therefore give a favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u4	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u5	In 2021, despite the population growth of the student population, expenditure per student will increase significantly. By aggregating the evolution of the appropriations of the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" and 231 "Student Life" programmes, taking into account the structuring action of the investments of the future, even if very limited and complementary to the 150 programme, as well as the State's commitment to universities in the framework of the recovery plan, its investment in the renovation of their buildings or in the digital sector, the increase of the loans guaranteed by the State for students and the contribution of student and campus life, we will be nearly 18 billion euros in 2021. This will be 2 billion more than in 2017, or more than 250 euros per student, to which should be added the exemption from the social security contribution for all students, which, let us remember, amounted to almost 230 euros for the vast majority of them. In this way, we measure what the State has done, in three or four years, for the higher education ecosystem and to promote the years of studies of French youth. I will outline the appropriations for 2021 of the two programmes for which I have the privilege of being rapporteur, starting with programme 150. First of all, an additional 164 million will be used to finance some of the advances envisaged in the research programming bill, such as the measure "2 SMIC at entry into the career" or those relating to the indemnification of lecturers and research fellows. The bill is also continuing the implementation of the Student Orientation and Success Act, which we passed in March 2018, with €73 million dedicated to the development of personalized courses, to give everyone every chance to flourish in their way of study. Finally, we can welcome the €9 million increase in the grant granted to private educational institutions of general interest, which has been requested for a long time. We are indebted to these institutions, which often pursue a policy of voluntary social openness and offer training and disseminate quality research, for having largely taken part in the reception of new students, since their numbers have increased by 88% over the last 10 years. I will ensure that these EUR 9 million are actually implemented in 2021. The additional €133.5 million allocated to the programme 231 "Student life" compared to the initial finance law for 2020, will finance important measures for students who need it most: upgrading of scholarships on social criteria – with the inclusion of revenues from 2020, not those from 2018 –, university restaurant ticket at 1 euro, or freezing at the level of 2020 of the increase in rents of university residences managed by the CROUS – the regional centres of academic and academic works. These are some examples of the very concrete and very strong measures of this programme. The network of academic and academic works has suffered significant operating losses since March 2020. Responses were provided in July in the draft Finance Amendment Bill, but these operating losses are continuing and they will need to be fully offset at the end of the management process. We will see to it, especially since I know that this line is shared by the minister. Finally, I am pleased that Bpifrance's student loan guarantee line is abounded with €4 million – this amount, which was a doubling last year compared to the previous one, was therefore renewed in the budget for 2021. It will be complemented by EUR 16 million from the recovery plan. In total, the number of beneficiaries of state-guaranteed loans will increase to 60,000 students. I would like to add a word on PIA 3, whose credits are included in the "Investments for the Future" mission: 215 million euros will benefit higher education in 2021, through the development of new curricula, the support to research universities or the financing of educational innovations. Finally, I would like to thank the higher education institutions for having responded to the questionnaire I sent them. This shows a strong demand for financial support for investments in digitisation and hybridisation of education. I welcome the fact that the recovery plan already provides EUR 35 million for this purpose. We are all aware of the need to invest in tools for the development of distance learning, which is intended to complement pre-school training intelligently. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] These comments, I propose that you vote for the appropriations for the 150 and 231 programmes proposed by the Government, not without first thanking the departments of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, my colleague special rapporteur Francis Chouat, the administrator Nicolas Liscia-Beaurenaut and my colleague Adrien Lariepe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u6	Mr Pierre Henriet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u7	For a long time, French research has suffered staggering budget cuts, which have logically resulted in the erosion of French scientific research abroad; in 2015, France was only the seventh largest publication in scientific journals in the world; In addition, the impact of these publications was declining, becoming lower than that of German and English publications. In view of this, the Government has chosen a different approach. As of 2018, the budget for higher education and research has been increased to 14.8 billion euros, almost 1 billion more than in the 2012 Finance Act. In 2021, appropriations will increase by EUR 400 million, totalling EUR 15.9 billion. Undoubtedly, as far as research funding is concerned, the year 2021 will be marked with a white stone. First, of course, because of the research programming bill, which should be passed before the end of the year. Finally, it sets out a strong ambition for our country by declining strategic directions and drawing a financial path that will, as everyone knows, result in an increase of EUR 25 billion in research resources in 2030. In addition to this increase in appropriations, the recovery plan, which will make a very important contribution and whose effects will be immediately visible. The same applies, in the longer term, to the fourth investment programme for the future, the IAP4. The 172 programme is central to the mission, in particular for the funding of the National Research Agency: all the missions of this programme benefit from increases in appropriations, in commitment and payment appropriations. It will also finance the general resources to support the research of the major institutions, first and foremost the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research – which will receive more than 45% of this budget in excess of EUR 1 billion, which its President insistently welcomed at the hearing. The programme also budgets for the piloting and animation of research, as well as for the State-region plan contracts and the expenditure on the exploitation and dissemination of research. As you know, the research programming bill is intended to give new impetus to the funding of research through calls for projects. The NRA will benefit from incomparably higher resources, and the success rate of the projects will be much better. By adding together the appropriations for this mission and those for the recovery plan, we will even be beyond the targets set for the first stage of the programming bill. With the contribution of the recovery plan, as of next year, a total intervention budget of more than €950 million will be made available to the ANR, two years ahead of the planned rise in power. Action 17 "Research", the most important of the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme, accounts for 29% of the total, or almost €3.9 billion. The appropriations for the 193 "Space research" programme will be down slightly this year, as France, at the end of the 2020 financial year, will have paid its debt to the European Space Agency, which in recent years had artificially inflated the programme's expenditure. In any case, these appropriations respect the needs of the European Space Agency – ESA – and CNES – the National Centre for Space Studies – as confirmed by the President of this public institution. The complement to the recovery plan was hailed as a genuine additional effort. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] In conclusion, the scientific research appropriations for 2021, plus the amounts provided for in the IAP4 and in the "Relaunch Plan" mission, confirm the momentum in favour of the research programming bill. This effort is unique: since the post-war period, no government has ever been so strongly committed to scientific research in our country. Year I of the research programming bill allows the expression of a decisive direction to support a science of excellence and to put the French scientific community at the forefront of global research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u8	Mr Cédric Villani, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u9	My opinion report deals with the budget of the major research organisations. On October 7, the Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to two women, including a French woman, Mrs Emmanuelle Charpentier, and an American woman, Ms Jennifer Doudna, for the development of a revolutionary genomic publishing technique, which has been famous for years. Beyond this brilliant success for French research, we must face two less pleasant realities. Firstly, French research is still particularly lacking in women, as I was able to see during the preparation of the report on this text: of the thirteen bodies, companies and administrations audited, twelve heads of delegation were men. The second unpleasant reality is illustrated by the very international character of Mrs. Charpentier's journey. Passed by the United States, Sweden and Germany, she has not returned to France since her doctorate in 1995. Of course, the international dimension is excellent, and even indispensable, in the fields of research, but only when the start is chosen. When it is linked, as in this case, to the inability of our country to provide adequate research conditions for its most prominent researchers, it is called the brain drain, and it refers to the chronic under-investment in research, in view of our ambitions, which have lasted for many years, as Pierre Henriet has just indicated. It must be recognized that the research programming bill has had the great merit of bringing these difficulties to light and facing them with a new ambition, which should be welcomed – in this regard, I agree with Francis Chouat's observation. Let us recall that, while several of our European partners have a level of internal R & D expenditure above 3% of their gross domestic product, in the case of France, this ratio has stagnated since 2014 at around 2.2%. In this context, the finance bill for 2021, within the scope that I have been given to examine, seems to me rather paradoxical. On the one hand, it has a great overall ambition; on the other, it shows a lack of coherence. Consider, in the "Research and Higher Education" mission, the allocations of programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", dedicated to the funding of the main research organisations, in particular the CNRS, the ANR, the INRAE – National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment –, the CEA – Commissariat for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – and the INSERM. Overall, there has been an increase of €355 million in EA – commitment authorisations – and €222 million in CP – payment appropriations – compared to 2020, largely due to the considerable increase in resources allocated to the National Research Agency. This is perfectly consistent with the directions of the research programming bill, and so much the better. However, for the other operators funded by the 172 programme, the situation is very variable. If the CNRS is to increase its staffing to a completely satisfactory level, others have to deal with some of the constraints. This is the case, in particular, of INSERM, which, because of the wave of covid -19, has to provide additional investments, from INRIA – the National Research Institute in Computer Science and Automatic Science – as it embarks on a major interface plan with the private sphere, in particular for the creation of start-ups, but also from INRAE, which is the result of the remarkable fusion that has just been conducted between INRA – the National Institute for Agronomic Research – and IRSTEA – the National Research Institute for Science and Technology for the Environment and Agriculture. As is well known, the supervisory authorities tend to wait for contracts of objectives and means to re-evaluate the allocations; I imagine that will be the case in this case. This may, however, make it difficult for organizations facing heavy management burdens, the payment of which cannot wait. And then, it reflects a lack of ambition for these organizations, which I believe is contrary to the spirit behind the work on the research programming bill, in which, as you know, I took an active part. Beyond strictly budgetary aspects, three areas of research that are eminently strategic for France's influence have been the subject of particular attention in my report: agroecology, space and energy. On space, I agree with Pierre Henriet's conclusions. I'll focus on energy. The announcement by the Government in September of a national strategy for the development of decarbonated hydrogen is welcome. Our country must mobilize the resources that will enable it to extract from its dependence on fossil fuels. We must welcome the change in ambition of this hydrogen plan: 2 billion in 2021 and 2022, without common measure with the foreground, presented in 2018. In these circumstances, it is extremely paradoxical that the draft finance law penalises one of the most advanced public research organisations in the field of hydrogen, IFPEN, IFP Energies nouvelles. The stability of the proposed staffing for this facility is unfair, on the one hand, because its activities will develop within the framework of the hydrogen plan and, on the other hand, because it has been reorienting its activities for several years towards ecological transition and sustainable mobility. It is also a matter of concern because the stability of staffing does not mask the decline in IFPEN's own resources due to the crisis of the covid-19. In short, we will ask IFPEN for additional efforts with less resources; They'll be less jobs. Taking all these points into account, I believe that the weak points dominate the strengths. I shall therefore give an opinion which is unfavourable to the adoption of the appropriations for the research and higher education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u11	Mr Vincent Descoeur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u12	The current health crisis illustrates how our ability to respond to tomorrow's crises depends on today's research effort. This is true for this pandemic as well as for the consequences of global warming. Research is essential to anticipate, mitigate and, of course, adapt to them. However, when we analyse both the main budget appropriations for research and those of the more specific areas in which I am concerned, the balance sheet is at least mixed. I would like to share with you some satisfactions, but also, I regret, many reservations. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has taken up programmes 172, 190 and 193 for its opinion. The appropriations for the programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research" are largely upgraded, which deserves to be welcomed. Much of the new resources will be used to boost the National Research Agency, which is good news, even if we need to ensure that funds are shifted towards sustainable development. The increase in appropriations results in an increase in appropriations for research organisations, but this is mainly intended to cover the cost of the wage measures provided for in the future law on the programming of research. It is thus difficult to say that the increase in appropriations for actions 17 "Scientific and technological research in the field of energy" and 18 "Scientific and technological research in the field of the environment" will result in more dynamic scientific research in such important areas. Much more worrying is the planned evolution of the 190 programme "Research in the fields of sustainable energy, development and mobility", the most at the heart of environmental issues. The increase in funding for these issues is unfortunately troubling, since 270 million commitment authorizations for the financing of research in the field of aeronautics are foreseen over two years. Moreover, this appropriation corresponds to appropriations identified as stimulus credits – there would be much to say about the cross-borrowing of appropriations induced by the existence of the "Relaunch Plan" mission, which undoubtedly undermines the readability of this budget. I would like to alert my colleagues to the risk that Program 190 will become a variable for adjusting the increase for other programs in this mission. Would we not need more research in the field of the environment? At a time when we are suffering the consequences of a pandemic, which prompts us to question our impact on the environment, this trajectory seems to me to go backwards in history, the least we can say. Finally, the programme 193 "Space research" saw its appropriations decrease, which is explained, as previous speakers have explained, by the fact that France has paid its financing debt to the European Space Agency. With regard to all these programmes, the situation of research organisations, following the crisis of coronavirus, is worrying; We'll have to take care of them. Institutions with a very large share of own resources are particularly affected by the decline in activity of their partners, as has just been pointed out. As such, the situation of the IFP Energies nouvelles is critical. Without going back to all the topics covered in my opinion, I would like to refer here to research in the prevention of zoonoses. All the stakeholders interviewed stressed that there was a well-known lack of or even a lack of specific monitoring of the resources devoted to research in this area. This lack of monitoring and readability more broadly reflects a lack of a comprehensive strategy in this area. The example of Lyme disease, which is close to my heart, illustrates it perfectly. The disparate and heterogeneous nature of the projects is clear, as is the absence of a guideline and the weakness of funding. Yet, again, the stakes are of importance, and the link with the manifest global warming, with the number of tick bites constantly increasing, as well as the number of patients identified. I therefore advocate an increase in funding for research in this area and a strengthening of the monitoring of its coordination. In this regard, Minister, what about budgetary support for INSERM, which is working on a single agency project on infectious diseases? In conclusion, these appropriations, despite some efforts, do not show sufficient ambition. I therefore expressed an opinion against their adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u13	Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u14	Again this year, higher education appropriations are increasing sharply. Combined, programs 150 "Superior Training and University Research" and 231 "Student Life" increased by 1.9% in commitment authorities and 2.3% in payment appropriations. The upward momentum initiated at the beginning of the quinquennium is not only prolonged, but also amplified, despite the unprecedented health crisis that we are going through. I welcome this commitment, renewed by the Government, to the higher education of our youth, which is a guarantee of innovation, competitiveness and scientific excellence. This year, more than €110 million is allocated for higher education, and the fourth investment programme for the future, or PIA4, which aims to strengthen the transformation dynamics of academic sites and to develop demonstration campuses. Even more than in previous years, this draft budget is ambitious. It makes it possible to draw the consequences of the health crisis on the world of higher education, without compromising the continuation of the reforms undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium. For example, the increase in funding ensures that reforms launched since 2017 will continue, including the "students" plan, which provides for the creation of additional places in higher education, the reform of health studies, the extension of the scope of the strategic and management dialogue, or the increase in English-language certification for students from the bachelor's level. The financial effort made in this draft budget also makes it possible to implement the numerous measures designed to strengthen the attractiveness of scientific careers, included in the research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030, adopted at first reading by our assembly. These include the diversification of recruitment channels, the upgrading of doctoral contracts and an increase in the number of doctoral contracts financed, a statute for post-doctoral fellows, and measures to revalue indemnities. In parallel with these reforms, the draft budget for 2021 draws the consequences of the health crisis on the world of higher education and student life. In particular, I would like to commend the strong measures taken in favour of the most fragile students, who are known to have made significant progress during the crisis. First, it foresees an increase of almost €81 million in the resources devoted to social grants, in order to finance the forecast increase in the number of student fellows, as well as the upgrading of the grant rate for the second consecutive year, but also the possibility for students to calculate the opening of their grant rights on the basis of not the income received by their parents in 2018, as is usually the rule, but of those received in 2020. Secondly, it includes the appropriations necessary to set up the university meal at 1 euro for student fellows, the cost of which is estimated at almost 50 million euros by 2021. Third, it will finance the substantial increase in the student loan guarantee fund scheme. This financial effort of almost €20 million is expected to increase the number of student beneficiaries by five as early as 2021. With these measures, the budget for 2021 will extend the effort undertaken during the fiscal year 2020, including the introduction of two emergency aid for students, one in the amount of 200 euros last May and the other in the amount of 150 euros, which will be paid to all students who are fellows or beneficiaries of the LPA – the personalized housing aid – before the end of the year. It also does not neglect the higher education component since it finances the creation of an additional 30,000 places in higher education by the start of the 2021 school year, of which a maximum of 10,000 are from the start of the 2020 school year, in response to the increase in student demography as a result of the increase in the number of bachelor's degrees and the increased difficulties of young graduates to enter the labour market. Finally, the Recovery Plan will fund a number of new measures aimed at preparing the world of higher education for the challenges of tomorrow; €3.7 billion is planned in particular to speed up the thermal renovation of the buildings of higher education institutions and the network of university works. Before the Committee on Cultural Affairs, the Minister said that higher education could benefit from about 40% of the total budget, or about €1.5 billion. In addition, an additional €35 million is allocated for the digital transition, more than ever necessary since distance learning is becoming more widespread as a result of the epidemic. Nearly €20 million is earmarked for cross-cutting innovative projects, selected as part of a call for projects; €6 million will help to promote the development of teaching practices and €10 million will have to be invested in the development of digital tools for students. The fourth investment programme for the future is aimed at prolonging the transformation dynamics of academic sites and developing demonstration campuses. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] In total, it is therefore a very significant effort that is being made in this finance bill in favour of higher education and student life. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has taken note of this progress by issuing, as I had called for, an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations; I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u15	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u16	The "Research and Higher Education" mission is now, with an envelope of €24 billion, the third state budget. For example, priority projects in higher education and the implementation of the research programming bill will benefit from an increase of €600 million by 2021. We have noted the abundance of programmes 150 and 231, amounting to €237 million, intended for the "students" plan and designed to increase the capacity for reception in the voltage fields. In addition to the recovery plan, we should also note the introduction of the "one young person, one solution" scheme, amounting to EUR 60 million. However, in the context of a health crisis, this draft budget remains insufficient to achieve the stated objectives, given that there are more than 16,300 additional students in the higher education cycle and that universities need material, real estate and financial resources to adapt to health regulations and protect all students and staff. Student precariousness has been greatly exacerbated by the crisis: 74% of young people aged 18 to 25 say they have encountered enormous difficulties in recent months, including more than a third who have had to give up being treated with confinement, while others have missed a first job. We also note the over-mobilization of staff and researchers to respond to the health emergency, while, at the same time, their precariousness and the weakening of public research are being developed. However, over the last three years we have consistently called for the strengthening of the resources of higher education. More recently, in the Committee on Finance, we have stressed the need to extend the price of university meals to 1 euro to all students and not to reserve it to fellows, who make up only 40 % of them, but we have been told that the State does not have the means to do so. We have also advocated for the upgrading of direct aids – mobility Coursup, assistance for mobility in master's degree or help for learners of the Grande École du Numérique – as well as for the increase of indirect aid to students and for the construction or development of additional housing of 4 million euros. We stressed the need to finance the operating and intervention costs of associative, cultural, sporting and success-oriented activities other than through student contributions alone. Unfortunately, we must reiterate our complaints about research. This text only slightly increases the means of higher education and, although the main focus is on research, it remains on the verge of dropping out – we refer you to the opinions of the EESC, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, and the CNESER, the National Council for Higher Education and Research. Despite the ambitions proclaimed by the Government, the resources allocated are still too modest compared to our country's delay in funding research – less than 1 per cent of GDP for the next ten years – and given the constant erosion of staff over the past ten years, the salaries of our researchers being 30 per cent below the OECD average, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. In addition, the weight of our international scientific publications is declining. We'll alert you again. It would take an additional €1.315 billion each year for seven years to fund research, almost equivalent to the increase in appropriations for the Mission as a whole over the past three years. Here again, we advocate prioritising core funding rather than project funding, given that many research programmes have seen their industrial credits melt down, and we recommend that research units involved in the experimenting with the "all researchers" scheme should be supported to the tune of EUR 1.6 million. Finally, we would like to see the creation of a budget plan of EUR 50 million to compensate for the technological shift in old age, as well as the increase in the appropriations allocated to research operators to put an end to the erosion of their wage bill. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This budget is marked by uncertainty and insecurity, which does not allow us to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u17	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u18	We are looking at this budget for research, higher education and student life in a very particular context, that of the health crisis but also that of an unprecedented effort to promote research and innovation. This effort is in line with the multi-year research programming bill that we passed last month at first reading. The PBDA will be a real step forward, which will give visibility to our universities and research organizations, and thus help increase our attractiveness. In particular, it provides for a strengthening of research resources, which is reflected in the budget for 2021. In 2021, the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation increased by 600 million euros, an amount that has been part of a continuous upward trend since 2017. By 2021, payment appropriations will reach almost €24 billion, an increase of 8% over three years. This is compounded by the means of the recovery plan and the fourth investment programme for the future. The recovery plan devotes an additional €400 million to research, giving the National Research Agency a stronger strike force to finance calls for projects. These new means will consolidate and strengthen a sector that can rely on many assets. The draft budget for 2021 also reflects the much expected increase in the salaries of researchers and higher education staff. In this regard, we welcome the agreement reached on 12 October between the Government and the social partners: €650 million will be made available to increase the salaries of researchers and more broadly the 250,000 technical and documentary staff concerned. This draft budget is also a major effort to promote student life. No less than 100 million euros will be invested in the upgrading of scholarships and in the financing of the university ticket to 1 euro for scholarship students. The Group welcomed the fact that the Government had taken into account the difficulties faced by thousands of students in precarious situations. The precariousness was greatly aggravated by the crisis, since social distancing measures such as administrative closures limited the supply of student jobs. Containment has meant financial hardship for three-quarters of young people. For half of them, having a healthy and balanced diet was not possible between March and June 2020. In this context, the funding of the 1 euro university meal, proposed since the beginning of 2020 to all students on social criteria, is a public health measure that we welcome. Other strong measures in favour of the purchasing power of students are the 1.2 per cent increase in grants at the start of 2020 and the freeze on fees paid by non-students. We must also take into account the students' legitimate concerns about an uncertain future and do everything possible not to leave young people at the edge of the road. The Action Together Group therefore welcomes the implementation of the "one young person, one solution" plan, which will enable young people between the ages of 16 and 25 to be accompanied in the wake of the crisis, thanks in particular to recruitment aid and an ambitious training plan, focusing mainly on the fields and professions in tension. The aim, in the continuity of the law on the guidance and success of students, is to leave no young person without a solution and to enable all to acquire additional training if they encounter difficulties of integration into the labour market. Our responsibility is not limited to this day-to-day support; It is also about preparing for the future. That is why we welcome the resources available to our research and to our students, which are part of an ambitious dynamic for the next decade. These means are indispensable to our future. There is an urgent need to upgrade the research professions to make our young people want to invest in them and to be the players in our industrial and economic future. If we want to innovate and relocate, we need skills. I invite you to vote for the appropriations for the research and higher education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u19	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u20	Following the review of the research programming bill passed by our assembly at first reading, we are here again to discuss its funding for the year 2021 and to see how the first steps of this law will be realized through the examination of this mission, which is particularly important to our students, universities, researchers and all those who put so much hope in research. First of all, I would like to welcome the agreement between the social partners and the Government on the salaries and careers of researchers, which can be described as historical, since more than 80 million euros are foreseen from the budget for 2021. This agreement was necessary, let us recall, to strengthen France's scientific attractiveness. We wonder, however, about the seven-year period that we asked for in the discussions on the PLPPR: how will this period be agreed with the ten-year programming, up to 2030, planned for the bill? As with the research programming bill, there is the question of long-term commitment, particularly that of future governments. Of course, we agree with the increase in the budget of more than EUR 4 million allocated to doctoral students, which offers the prospect of an additional 220 PhD students, which is in line with the commitments made in the PLPPR. While the upgrading of doctoral contracts is also welcome, we regret that the current contracts cannot benefit from it. We also hope for progress in the value and management of additional hours. We must also admit our surprise at the apparent transfer of nearly EUR 600 million from this budget mission to the recovery plan: this leads us to question the EUR 100 million foreseen in the recovery plan and the future of the research and higher education mission. However, we welcome, of course, the increase in RNA appropriations, both in this budgetary mission and through the recovery plan. This academic year is still going to be difficult for students; particular attention will have to be paid to the most fragile of them. I will also defend an amendment aimed at increasing the number of contracts offered to students within their university itself. The images of amphitheatres crowded during the re-entry show more than uncertain respect for health conditions, while everyone's will is to protect students as best they can. We can therefore welcome the commitment of the Ministry, which has earmarked EUR 35 million for educational and digital transformation. However, will the strengthening of digital services to students be sufficient? The question remains for real estate needs, all the more notorious in this period of health crisis. I'm talking about the classrooms that are being run, but I've also asked you in committee, minister, about the housing needs of students. You work there with the local authorities, but you told me that land was a problem. Are there any other avenues for reflection on the subject? The resources devoted to student life are up by 134 million euros. The upgrading of student scholarships and their increase on the basis of social criteria is good news, but we regret that they do not take into account the inequalities in the cost of living between the territories, to the detriment of those in the overseas territories, more specifically the Pacific. We also welcome, of course, the change in the price of university meals to 1 euro for fellows. Before concluding, I would like to share with you my concern about the health of our students, especially psychological ones. The President of the Republic said it was hard to be 20 years old in 2020; For my part, I would say that it is hard to be a student in 2020. Shouldn't additional human resources be unlocked to accompany these young people? Finally, I would like to return to the hope I was talking about in the introduction: the hope of the parents of sick children with cancer, bulbo-spinal amyotrophy or another serious, often incurable disease. I know we all share the hope of these families. You understand that, as you do, we want to support higher education and research. That is why we will defend certain amendments, while welcoming, as a whole, the proposal for appropriations allocated to this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u21	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u22	Our country is facing an unprecedented health crisis, which fully mobilizes researchers and particularly weakens young people, although less likely to contract serious forms of the virus, but faced with new ways of organizing their studies and more vulnerable. That is why we can only welcome the strong ambition of the State, via this PLF for 2021, in higher education, research and innovation. On the one hand, the increase in the Ministry's appropriations continues, with an increase of 600 million euros; Since 2017, €1.7 billion has been added to the inter-ministerial mission "Research and Higher Education". This increase serves the major reforms carried out for the success of students and for the improvement of the offer of continuing training for the benefit of integration. Among the progress already made is the implementation of Parcoursup, a more fair, efficient and transparent system for assigning staff to senior management. In addition, the definitive abolition of the student social security scheme and related contributions in 2019, the freezing of registration fees in the three cycles of higher education for the start of 2020, the upgrading of 1.2% of scholarships on social criteria and the establishment of the CROUS university restaurant ticket at 1 euro for fellows, also exempt from student and campus contributions, are all proactive measures to combat the precariousness of students, in a particularly anxious context. We also note the objective of better welcoming students through the creation of new housing, the necessarily beneficial expansion of library reception times and the strengthening of the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, a major topic. Finally, the increase in credits is also at the service of the reform of the training framework of the bachelor's cycle, for the professionalization and better success of students. It also serves the reform of health training, in conjunction with the abolition, finally implemented, of the numerus clausus. On the other hand, in 2021 and 2022 the exceptional resources deployed under the recovery plan are added to this continuous increase in appropriations. It is 30000 additional places that will be financed, of which 10000 will be for this year alone, while the exceptional results of the 2020 bac, combined with the difficulties of integration of young people due to the economic context, increase the number of staff. The implementation of the connected campuses – there will be an additional thirty-three in 2020, after the thirteen labels of 2019 – will continue, with the aim of reaching a hundred places by 2022, so that as many young people as possible will have access to higher education training and the closest to their home. In the long term, EUR 6.5 billion of the stimulus plan will be devoted to research, higher education and innovation, which is welcomed by the Dem Group. Indeed, the sector has been suffering for years from a widespread underinvestment policy, recently recalled in the debate on the research programming bill. Finally, with a trajectory of EUR 25 billion in ten years, this is a strong ambition for the competitiveness of our research which is part of the long term. The PLF for 2021 builds the first step in the ambition of an increase of 400 million euros dedicated to research planned in the PLPPR. In particular, it provides for the recruitment of 700 ETPTs – full-time equivalents worked – while 130 million euros will be spent on upgrading the remuneration of researchers, engineers and technicians, in order to pursue the objective of enhancing the attractiveness of our research. The budget of universities and research organisations is increasing by 150 million euros, in order to ensure the sustainability of recruitments, to increase the basic allocation of laboratories by 10% and to provide new researchers with an allocation of 10000 euros to start their projects. The commitments of the National Research Agency will increase by €435 million as of 2021, under the combined effect of the research programming bill and the stimulus plan, in order to improve the deployment of priority research programmes in areas crucial to our future. Our group will be particularly vigilant in maintaining, even increasing, recurrent funding from laboratories and research institutions. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Thus, the mission's budget, as it appears in the PLF for 2021, pursues the objectives set at the beginning of the mandate and at the same time reflects the inflections required by the ongoing health crisis. It marks a real and strong ambition to equip France with research and higher education adapted to the challenges before us, and even already present. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u23	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u24	Madam Minister, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education on 20 October, you said: "I am proud to present you this year with a budget that is both strong, ambitious and resolutely forward-looking. We believe, on the contrary, that this budget is not up to the level and will not be able to meet the challenges ahead. In a tweet of September 9, 2020, you wrote: "We will mark the 21st century only if we finally give our research the consideration it deserves. So far, unfortunately, your actions are rarely in line with your words. In fact, you limit the freedom of researchers and strengthen the system of calls for projects, to the detriment of recurrent credits, while the scientific community demands that they be significantly increased. For example, Program 172 funds are up 3.2%, but the main beneficiary is the RDA. In your opinion, the increase in the NRA budget will allow for a positive response to 30% of applications for projects. This funding will therefore continue to benefit a minority of institutions, which seems to you to be no problem. At present, some 20 universities receive 80% of ANR funding, without surprise to the most prestigious universities. You choose to strengthen this system, which organizes the competition between the institutions. You are announcing a recruitment of 700 ETPTs, with a stable employment ceiling as a result of the redeployment of unfilled jobs, but you forget to say that these public service subsidies do not make it possible to finance them, so that the posts cannot be filled. The number of non-ceiling FTEs in the CNRS is decreasing, with 41 fewer jobs, while the number of non-ceiling jobs is increasing, with 485 FTEs in addition. These jobs will include the famous mission CDI and junior faculty chairs. It is therefore a matter of abolishing civil servants' posts and replacing them with precarious contracts; The scientific community will no doubt appreciate these high marks of consideration. At your press conference on September 15, 2020, you said that it was necessary to "double ambitions" and "bring each student to success". How can we not subscribe to such comments? However, in fact, you are pursuing the policy of selection in higher education, which worsens the inequality of guidance. You are thus questioning the democratisation of higher education. This year, while there were an additional 57,700 students according to the ministry, only 2,1,500 additional places were created. Every year, Parcoursup leaves more students on the tile. Master's access is also becoming increasingly difficult: the rectorate's referrals jumped by 126% at the start of the year. According to UNEF, 9,000 master's candidates ended up unassigned at the start of 2020. Social determinism, already at work at the university, is thus reinforced. According to the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, only 12.1 per cent of the children of employees and 9.2 per cent of the children of workers have access to the master's degree. In despair, a student from Montpellier, Mehdi Ben Youssef, went on hunger and thirst strike several weeks ago. Although his situation was resolved thanks to Guylain Clamour, Dean of the Faculty of Law of Montpellier, other mobilized students gathered several times in front of the rectorate. To date, a union has identified more than a hundred in the same case. The Dean of the Faculty of Law said in the press: "If we had more resources, we could open new master's degrees and split some of them to at least be able to allow students who have passed their bachelor's degree to continue. But you choose to let public higher education deteriorate, in favour of private education, which benefits from a significant increase in its credits. The 1.2% increase in grants and the introduction of ticket I to 1 euro are significant, but they will not allow students to cope with the growing precariousness, which you do not seem to be taking the measure. While one third of the students give up care, you reduce the funds allocated to action 03 "Student health and associative, cultural and sporting activities" of the 231 "Student life" programme by 300,000 euros. You are not considering awarding grants over 12 months instead of 10, as student organizations ask, or increasing the number of housing units run by the CROUS, while housing is a huge problem for students. As you will understand, as it stands, we will not vote for the budget allocated to MIRES, the interdepartmental mission "Research and higher education". We hope that the debates will not be sloppy, as they were during the examination of the PLPPR, and that we will finally be able to discuss our ideological differences, argument against argument, in a spirit of listening and respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u25	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u26	Let me have a preliminary digression. Some of us were here Saturday to review and vote on the bill to extend the state of health emergency. Since then, Saturday night and this morning, like hundreds of thousands of commuters, I have taken line 13 of the subway. She was archi-bonded,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u28	[[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] ...the docks were crowded, you had to let three or four trains pass before you could get in a row, and there were pushers to put people in the wagons. Quite frankly, how do you want the French to understand anything about your decisions? You can't meet more than six people for dinner with friends; On the other hand, in order to go to work, we can pile ourselves in absolutely unqualified conditions in the metro. It is not surprising, then, that an immense majority of French people do not trust the Government in order to fight effectively against the covid-19. This morning, I found the distortion between Saturday's debates and the reality of hundreds of thousands of commuters absolutely unbearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u30	In the transports, we're masked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u31	It is no surprise: we regret this draft budget, conceived in line with the research programming bill, which you voted a month ago, despite the opposition of a large part of the scientific community. Indeed, with a programming schedule that postpones the majority of funding from 2027, i.e. in two legislatures, and with means concentrated on the appropriations subject to competition rather than on the basic allocations, you will not solve in any way the crisis that French research is going through. This logic persists in the proposed budget for 2021. The main focus is on the National Research Agency, as part of the Recovery Plan, while you are reducing research and higher education appropriations by EUR 176 million. In doing so, you run counter to the EESC's recommendations and to a large part of the CNESER, which call for a massive investment in research and a plan for tenure in all areas of higher education and research. You are therefore pursuing a strategy to compete with researchers and to increase the general precariousness of the scientific community. With regard to policy choices in research areas, there is a continuing underfunding of the ecological transition and sustainable development, and a small increase in the resources devoted to health research, as we face an unprecedented health crisis. Clearly, your policy choices place research at the service of a narrow, short-sighted economy, at the expense of our ability to respond to key issues for our future. In the field of university training, credits are barely increasing. However, we met again this year in our ridings many young people without a post in initial training or university, or without a master's degree, when they obtained their bachelor's degree in June. The budget for master's training does not even increase by 1%; the real estate component for university training institutions is even declining. On the other hand, private loans are still increasing by 10% this year. Of course, 5400 places have been created since the beginning of the year, as part of the recovery plan, most often in paramedical training; It's a good thing, but we're still a long way from it. The selection at the entrance to university and master's degree, which has been getting tougher in recent years and which has increased since the entry into force of Parcoursup, is a desperate choice for our youth. This deprives young people of the right to training and discourages them. When you meet a student who, after three years of study, is reduced to working for a year at McDo, while waiting to try his chance again in master's the following year, it is difficult to find arguments to restore him confidence in himself and in the future. After six months of confinement, believe me, the young people were all equally eager to return to school, to work, to study and to prepare for their future. It is not just a question of saying that it is difficult to be 20 years old and then to stay there. Where is the momentum to encourage students, to support them in this important stage of their lives? The reduction of the price of the U-restaurant ticket to 1 euro for stockholders or the revalorisation of the stock exchanges by 6 euro per month, which does not even correspond to the price of a package of masks, are ridiculously weak measures in view of the billions of the recovery plan. This draft budget is therefore, in our view, unambitious for research and university training. We will propose amendments based on the EESC's recommendations for research and aimed at really improving the study and living conditions of students. If they are not adopted, we will of course oppose this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u32	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u33	This budget proposal is out of standard, in many respects. It must be part of the continuity of the work carried out by the Government and the majority since the beginning of the quinquennium, and must prepare the conditions for recovery and economic and social resilience. In these troubled times, more than ever, higher education and research, and more generally knowledge, remain the pillars of our civilization, progress and humanism. I am pleased that we have before us a draft budget that defends the ambitions of the Research Programming Act and supports the improvement of our higher education and the living conditions of students. Since the beginning of the mandate, the Government has learned from the underinvestment that French research has undergone for many years, recently symbolized by the award of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry to Mrs Emmanuelle Charpentier, a brilliant researcher trained in France but who had to leave abroad to carry out her fruitful work. Our ability to innovate and transcribe our scientific advances into our economy will be one of the conditions for our rebound. This is particularly true in the fields of ecological transition and in strategic sectors, not to mention the crucial importance of the social and human sciences in conducting a reflection on our world. The increase in the research budget this year amounts to EUR 400 million, of which EUR 390 million is allocated to programmes under the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Among the major investments, 130 million will be earmarked for improving the remuneration of researchers, engineers and technicians. Starting next year, we will guarantee all young researchers a salary at least equal to 2 SMICs, in order to start a career improvement process. We train brilliant researchers; France must assure them a future and a career in its territory. The draft programming law provides for concrete progress against the precariousness of doctoral students; the draft budget aims to reach a first stage of improving their conditions of remuneration, with €6 million for students who will commit themselves to a thesis, an increase of 20% in the number of theses financed by the State and an increase of 30% in the remuneration of doctoral students. In order to increase the selection rate of the National Research Agency to 23%, its appropriations will be increased by 149 million euros, benefiting all French research laboratories and private companies that innovate. In order to spread the scientific culture and move from fundamental theory to applied theory in our innovative companies, 20 million will be devoted to the opening up of science to society. To structure research around key priorities, $25 million will be mobilized to showcase and showcase our major academic sites worldwide. We will also fund scientific initiatives that fight against covid-19 and its consequences, in order to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible and learn from it. With regard to higher education, we are providing means to cope with the crisis and improve the living conditions of students. In order to pursue the objectives set out in the law on the guidance and success of students, €80 million is foreseen; In particular, these additional appropriations will allow for the extension of the strategic and management dialogue, a promising mechanism to provide institutions with a real forward-looking and multi-annual trajectory, as well as to continue the reform of health studies and salary upgrading. In addition to this EUR 80 million, 95 million has been allocated from the stimulus plan, so that higher education can be given its full place. The creation of additional places, especially in the most strained sectors and health training, under the plan "a young person, a solution", is thus endowed with 60 million. To ensure the continuity of teachings during the crisis, as required by the context, 35 million are dedicated to the educational and digital transformation of teaching. In order to improve the living conditions of students, an additional €134 million is foreseen: €80 million for grants based on social criteria, with an increase in grants of 1.2% financed to the tune of 30 million, and €50 million to finance the university restaurant ticket at 1 euro for student fellows, which is a capital and unprecedented social measure. Finally, EUR 11 million is foreseen to finance the freezing of rents in university residences run by the CROUS. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you have understood, the Minister is presenting us with an unprecedented, ambitious, solidary and forward-looking draft budget; The moving Republic Group fully supports this out-of-standard budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u34	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u35	A budget proposal has meaning only in relation to a political project and a strategic vision of the departmental scope. In terms of higher education and research, it is first of all not clear what the ministerial strategy is: what is the Government's vision, in the short, medium and long term, for higher education and research in France? In addition, since 2017, that is, since you were a minister, you have been holding the same speech every year, announcing a historic and unprecedented budget. What is new, Madam Minister, is that since 2017, we have observed a constant: when we compare your budget proposals with budget implementation, we find that you cancel appropriations during the year in relation to what we voted, and therefore you are under-executing your budget; It's probably Bercy and Matignon who make you do it. So you will easily understand that by hearing you say, for the fourth year in a row, that the draft budget for research and higher education is historic, not only do we find it difficult to believe you, but we also think that the string is a little big. In Le Mans, a few days ago, you said in front of teachers-researchers that nothing had been done in 20 years. Not only is this assertion false and scandalous, but, as I say to you clearly, it makes your own political speech all the more unacceptable because you have been president of a university that has benefited from IDEX funding, the initiatives of excellence: you know, therefore, that in the last twenty years, some things have happened. But come to your fiscal trajectory, as it appears both in your research programming bill and, very immediately, in the appropriations of the mission "Research and Higher Education" for the year 2021. I want to denounce as a matter of priority the budgetary suffocation which, contrary to what you are announcing, you will continue to submit to me all the operators of higher education and research. Indeed, the draft budget which is devoted to them only partly takes into account the employer's contribution for the retirements of civil servants: the famous contribution to the special assignment account "pensions". We have had this debate in the Committee on Finance, where Mr Chouat has defended amendments aimed at solving the problem for research organisations. So my first question is about this – although I repeated it many times during the debate on the research programming bill a few weeks ago, you never answered it. Asphyxiation is compounded by a second problem: you do not compensate for the famous technical aging slide. Research organisations plus higher education and research institutions, it can be considered that this weighs an annual amount of around EUR 100 million on the operators concerned, thereby reducing their capacity to act. So here's my second question: Will you finally compensate the GVT for all MIRES operators? Asphyxiation is further aggravated, moreover, by the fact that the number of students has continued to grow. As a minister, you therefore have a sad record: the worst student per teacher rate. This indicator has changed to bright red since 2017; Only three EU countries have a worse one, compared to seven in 2014. We are also widening the gap from most European Union countries, since the budget of the institutions has only decreased in recent years, and as a result the expenditure per student has decreased since you were a minister, all in constant euros as well as in current euros. The more I look at your actions and put them in parallel with the budgets, the more I worry about higher education and research. Despite the figures announced, there is a trompe l'oeil effect, already mentioned by Mr Descoeur. It is difficult to understand how the asphyxiation process of the operators I have just described could be stopped by the budget presented. For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against the MIRES budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u36	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u37	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u38	Since the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic, research and higher education have been and are still being tested. It is to the researchers that we turned to the appearance of this unknown virus and it is on them that all our hopes are to find a treatment or a vaccine. If necessary, this crisis has reminded us of the importance of dialogue between society and science, but also of the need to support strong and ambitious research, thanks to substantial and sustainable funding. In this context, the draft law on the programming of research was particularly awaited, in order to remedy the chronic under-investment of the sector and finally to give itself the means to achieve the objective to which France must aim since the Lisbon strategy defined in 2000: to devote 3% of its GDP to research. During its consideration in the National Assembly last month, the Libertés et territoires group did not hide its disappointment with this text, which, while it devotes substantial resources and promises expected salary increases, proposes an increase in funding that is far too slow. The main financial efforts are planned at the end of the period up to 2030, three quinquennats! However, the 2021 finance bill is unsurprisingly defending the same ambitions and vision; We regret it. Yes, credits are increasing; They are also increasing not only in the mission that concerns us now, but also through the "Relaunch Plan" and "Investments of the Future" missions. By the way, this break-up greatly complicates our understanding of the budget. While our group welcomes the steady increase in appropriations, it does not necessarily share the Government's priorities. Once again, it is mainly the National Research Agency that benefits from this, amounting to 400 million: it is therefore the system of calls for projects that is favoured, to the detriment of long-term and recurrent funding, that is, long-term research. Yes, we need sustained and ongoing funding in various priority areas of research, such as environmental transition, to find useful solutions, particularly for farmers. It is also true about health. In this regard, I am thinking in particular of the research on infectious and vector diseases, which have long been set aside, because little investment by industrialists...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u40	... even as we witnessed the emergence of new viruses, such as Zika, Ebola or dengue fever, and tick vector diseases, such as Lyme disease. I will defend an amendment to strengthen research in this area, in order to finally recognise the many patients who are ill-diagnosed and therefore poorly cared for. I also want to say a word about the situation of higher education and students. We reiterate our disagreement with the new recruitment paths provided for in the Research Programming Bill, the Scientific Missions Commission and the Junior Professor Chairs, which are likely to increase the precariousness of research and teaching occupations. While we welcome the agreement reached on 12 October last in favour of indemnification, we regret that the PLF does not provide for the lack of upgrading of doctoral contracts, while the Government is committed to making the doctorate more attractive and recognized. As far as students are concerned, we must be extremely vigilant. Faced with the isolation, precariousness and deterioration of their living conditions, students saw their inequalities worsen during the crisis. Many were unable to do the small job that provided them with additional resources to continue their studies. Our group is concerned about spending on student life, particularly on direct and indirect support. Of course, measures are planned: the 1 euro university restaurant ticket for fellows or the freezing of registration fees. But others are worrying us, such as the decrease in funding for Action 03, which is dedicated in particular to the health of students. This should encourage us to reflect on the relevance of the student and campus contribution, which funds this action, so that students can have proper access to care and be well-accompanied. As you will understand, the Libertés et territoires Group will not support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u41	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u42	We are gathered here to review the budget of the inter-ministerial research and higher education mission for the year 2021, a month after the first reading, here, of the research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030. I am pleased and proud to present you with the first budget proposal, which reflects the Government's unprecedented ambition and commitment to higher education and research. In 2000, we were at 2.1% of GDP; In 2020, we are at 2.2%. Therefore, in 20 years, nothing has changed. Finally, we are on our way to 3%, on which France had committed itself in 2000. Before I go into detail, I would like to pay tribute to all the staff of the higher education and research community for their remarkable commitment to the fight against covid-19, their constant efforts to welcome students in the best possible conditions and their willingness to do everything possible to ensure that knowledge and knowledge continue to irrigate our country, despite constraints and threats. More than ever, my ministry is at their side. In this serious period, after the attack on Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, I recall that our universities are the guardians of academic freedoms, inseparable from freedom of expression. They work every day to emancipate young people and enlighten all sections of society. In the face of Islamist fanaticism, terrorism, radicalities as a whole, universities and public research are powerful levers to understand the threats we face and to combat them, through teaching and knowledge, while respecting the values of the Republic. The Government's commitment to research and higher education will translate next year into an increase of €600 million in the Ministry's budget and 700 recruitments for research and higher education. The IAP and the Recovery Plan will complement this ambitious and resolutely forward-looking budget. In addition to these budgetary appropriations, the "France Recovery" plan and the investment programme for the future, which will represent more than 6.5 billion in the coming years, will be used for actions supported by the Ministry in the fields of innovation, support for employment, research and development, creation of places at the top, digital transformation, and priority research programmes. This unprecedented effort is in line with the path that has taken place since the beginning of the quinquennium: the Ministry's budget has increased by almost 8 per cent, reflecting the Government's unwavering support. For the financial year 2021, the budget for higher education and research, the third state budget excluding repayment of debt, is based on three main pillars: support for research first, with this first march of 400 million extra injected into French research; higher education, to enable institutions, staff and students to work in better conditions; the fight against student precariousness, finally, in this period when the accompaniment of young people is a top priority. Support for research is the first pillar. Our search system has been losing speed for too many years. The momentum will be reflected in the programming law, with an additional 25 billion expected over the next ten years. The first step in programming is to increase the research budget by 400 million: 225 million for the programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research"; 165 million for the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme; 10 million new appropriations for the programme 193 "Space research". The 400 million will enable a wide-ranging movement to upgrade the careers and remuneration of all research personnel: 130 million will be spent in 2021, in accordance with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 12 October 2020 in Matignon, in the presence of the Prime Minister. This protocol, the first major agreement in higher education and research, is a great pride for me, because it reflects the Government's commitment to staff and its deep commitment to social dialogue. Support for staff is also, of course, supporting doctoral students, with an additional 6 million for students who will become involved in a thesis and, eventually, an increase of 20% in the number of theses funded by the state and 30% in the remuneration of doctoral students. Here too, it is an effort that has never been seen. The dynamism of research is also based on increased funding for research projects. This is why the ANR budget will increase as of next year: it will be increased by 149 million in commitment authorisations, to the benefit of all laboratories, and the recovery plan will bring an additional 250 million, so that the success rate of the projects can be increased very visibly. This effort in favour of the National Research Agency is in no way to the detriment of the basic funding of the laboratories, which will increase by 10 % as of next year, which will be in addition to the precipitative mechanism allowing also to abound all the actors associated with a winning project: the laboratory, the host institution and the site. I hope thus to put an end to the sterile opposition between basic and competitive credits; The collective is inherent in research and success is never the result of one or a few. My ministry is also pursuing its strong and massive commitment to higher education, as it has done since 2018. Over the past three years, the "students" plan has made it possible to invest an additional 480 million in higher education. In 2021, an additional 80 million were added to the 165 million funds earmarked for research aimed specifically at higher education. Nearly 39,000 places have been created since 2017; In 2021, the increase will continue, as a matter of priority in the voltage chains. These means will also enable us to implement the reform of health studies. Support for higher education is also reflected in the extension of the strategic and management dialogue to all institutions with expanded responsibilities and skills of more than 500 students. And EUR 15 million will be allocated to finance the cost of the measures contained in the protocol "professional career paths, careers and remuneration". Higher education will benefit from an additional €9 million. In addition to the 80 million earmarked for higher education, there are 95 million of the stimulus plan: 60 million to finance the implementation of the "youth, one solution" plan and the creation of 30 000 additional places, and 35 million for educational and digital transformation. Finally, a specific envelope will be dedicated to the energy renovation of higher education and research buildings within the 4 billion envelope provided for in the calls for projects. At this point, I have to answer you on two points, Mr Hetzel. First, I would like to point out that the research programming bill is built on the assumption of a CAS – special purpose account – constant "pensions". To say that we finance our projects using pension money is therefore completely wrong; and I remind you that the pension reform law has not yet been adopted. And then, as far as the GVT is concerned, I am sure you remember when the non-compensation to which you refer was born, since you know better than anyone this time, because of your previous duties in the ministry's office: it is at the time of the shift to broader responsibilities and competencies. However, we have emerged from this pattern with the strategic and management dialogue. The health crisis also calls, I repeat, for an unprecedented commitment to student life. The resources devoted to student life are up by 134 million euros compared to last year; 2.3 billion will be spent on direct student support; It is also EUR 50 million that will help to combat food insecurity, thanks to the 1 euro university catering ticket. In this same dynamic, I welcome the award of an exceptional bonus of 150 euros to all scholarship students and 400,000 young people receiving the LPA. To accompany our young people is also to strengthen the guarantee of student loans, the envelope of which will be multiplied by five in 2025. Support for student life therefore remains a priority of the Government, you see. The other MIRES programs, which are not under my department's control, see their appropriations evolve, but only as a result of perimeter measures. This decrease has no effect on the level of ambition of the other ministries concerned by MIRES. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This budget proposal reflects once again the priority given by the Government to research and higher education, to the support of their staff and to the support of students. This morning, as news of the spread of the virus continues to worry us, I would like to project ourselves collectively in ten years' time and I would like to share this conviction that is so dear to me: we will succeed. Admittedly, it will take time, effort and resilience; but the commitments have been and will continue to be fulfilled in the future. The results will be at the rendezvous, because we have trusted, because we have believed in this collective, which is the very essence of research and knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u43	I call the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education", entered in state B. On these appropriations, I have many amendments before me. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u44	This is an appeal amendment that aims to encourage the government to remove the baccalaureate pass quotas to create a true diploma representative of a school level. The figures are explicit, all baccalaureates combined: in 1980, the success rate was 64.1%; in 1990 by 73.4%; in 2000, by 79.8%, with a steady increase since that year, to an average of 82.3%. As a result of this extremely high success rate, university courses are saturated. France cannot promise all high school students that the university is for them, the following figures say the opposite: 27.5% of students enrolled for the first time at university in 2012-2013 graduated from a bachelor's degree in 2015; In 2014-15, only 40.1% completed their first year of licence. Moreover, the exceptional success rates in the baccalaureate only delay the problem: so many students want to enter the university that they find a second bottleneck when entering the master's degree. Since the entry into force of the selection at the time of the master's degree, in 2017, more and more students have been taking legal action before the administrative courts. Rectorate referrals, the first step before the litigation, jumped by 126% in this academic year, particularly in the fields of law, psychology and life sciences: while they were only 5200 to turn to their rector in 2019, 11800 students seized it this year, and only 2500 applications for admission were finally accepted by the universities. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a new system of admission to university, which would allow France to improve its position in the world rankings. In 2019, no French university belongs to the top 10 of the world's best universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u45	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u46	The problems raised by this amendment led the Government, in 2018, to present the draft law on the guidance and success of students, which aimed to help high schools to make more informed choices, to better construct them upstream of entry into higher education. High school students are now better informed about the expectations of each training, their academic requirements, the opportunities they offer and their success rate. Downstream there is an end to accompanying work to promote the success of students by setting up personalized courses. Our philosophy is not to introduce a selection, which would exclude high school students who have the intention of moving towards a particular field all the necessary abilities, but to commit real means to give them every chance to succeed and flourish. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u47	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u48	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u49	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 881.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u50	As the sequence of the second part of the finance bill begins, I will tell you what our intentions are. Last spring, everyone, including youth, was confined to protect the elderly. This autumn, everyone, especially young people, is under curfew. And who's gonna pay the price of this crisis? Who, according to the polls, feeds the most the anguish of not being able to pay his rent, of not finding a job? Youth. On the train, this morning, I was next to Yann – there was no room, we were glued to each other, even during a period of covid. Yann takes an internship in Paris until mid-November, after which he does not know what he will become: will he have to return his home, go back to his parents? He turned to me to get him a job, but I'm unlikely to get there. Emmanuel Macron, on 14 July, said: "Youth must be the priority of this revival." On arrival, as Challenge magazine shows, they will have 150 euros and that's all: a alms! The recovery plan should be a plan of hope, and the first hope should be not only to earn a living, but also to give it meaning, to find its place outside the university square war, described by the newspapers. In my home, for example, Alexandra testified: "I wanted to become a nurse, and I found myself in art school. Our universities were already armored, so with 96% success in the baccalaureate, it's even worse... It goes as far as hunger strikes, you know. One father said: "My son had applied for a scientific license to then go to medicine, but his ten vows were refused. As a father, I can't keep seeing him despair without reacting. » That is why we are asking for the opening of 100,000 places in the university.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u52	He's unfavorable. This year, at the end of the Coursup procedure, fewer than 500 candidates had not found a solution; they have been individually accompanied by the rectoral commissions. We return to the guidelines of the law on the guidance and success of students, whose aim is not to introduce a selection, but to allow the most informed and accompanied choices upstream and downstream of the baccalaureate. You will find, I think, a reason for satisfaction in the plan of creation of 30,000 places in two years in the fields of tension; it is contained in the recovery plan. As for the master's degree, mentioned in your summary report, these are pre-vocational training courses, in which it is not always easy to increase the number of places, because they are built with the economic actors of a territory, and the number of courses offered is not extensible because it must be compatible with the possibilities of a quality vocational integration. That's what makes our diplomas worth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u54	By the end of 2021, we will have created 67,000 places in higher education; So an unprecedented movement has already begun. We are obviously very attentive to the wishes of the students and, as the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the 500 high school students who had not found a place in higher education were accompanied one by one. If by chance there were any left, do not hesitate to inform us; we will ensure that the rectoral commissions contact them to find solutions. It should be noted that the regions – because they are the ones piloting nursing training, not the State – have been able, thanks to the additional funding provided by the State, to increase the number of places offered by these institutes. We work hand in hand with them for our youth. The plan "a young one, a solution" is 6.5 billion euros, much more than 150 euros, contrary to what you said. This is in particular what allows our young people not to be penalized at this time; I am thinking in particular of all those who need, in order to be able to continue their training, an apprenticeship contract. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u55	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u56	I would like to draw your attention to a particular problem: the case of students from overseas France. Ultramarine high school students fill, like those of the Hexagone, a Parcoursup folder; much of the ten choices they make are often, of course, in Hexagon, and they have to wait until the end of the process to know the place the algorithm will allow them to continue their studies. Some are assigned to Bordeaux, Toulouse or Lille, while students from Bordeaux, Toulouse or Lille are assigned overseas. These transfers of students from Hexagon to overseas, and vice versa, for the same training and diploma – for example, a nursing degree – are still a problem. Leaving overseas to settle in Hexagon is not always financially possible. Some feel that they have been penalized by the algorithm. Many ultramarine students end up not entering higher education, for these financial reasons. I personally know a student from La Réunion who, while the university is a few meters away from home, was assigned to Orléans, while a student from Orléans was assigned to the nursing training of La Réunion... Distance greatly complicates the choices of ultramarine students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u57	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u58	I'm going back to what you said about Parcoursup, minister. Many students give up or turn to private education when they are tired of war. As for the situation at entry into the master's degree, it is even more unacceptable, because it accentuates social determinism. Many students turn, in despair, to fields that do not correspond to them; Some even follow a second license, saying, "There, at least, they took me, and we'll see next year. A student told me to accept a master's degree that did not fit her and be sure to go straight to failure. Many players in the academic world, including deans of faculty, say they could open new master's degrees and accept more students if they had more resources. For the rest, in case of recourse by the student, the rectorate asks the universities to provide him with three proposals, but he has no coercive means if they do not. The system does not work; It's a failure. It's time to do something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u59	You have the floor, Mrs Ressiguier, to support Amendment No 860.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u60	By this amendment, we propose to restore the right of everyone to enrol in the field of their choice, whether in initial or continuing training. Parcoursup makes a selection that affects more and more students, and the sociological profile of those affected is quite upbuilding, it should make us think. Master's access is part of the combatant's journey. According to the UNEF – this has been recalled several times – 9,000 students are without assignment to date, while the courses have already begun, which obviously increases the difficulties, even for those who will have the chance to find a place after a recourse. Especially since, tick-tac, the clock turns: some risk losing the housing provided by the CROUS. This situation leads many students to make a default choice. This selection policy, which runs counter to the principle of access to education for all and reinforces social determinism, must be put an end to; It's not a secondary problem. It is necessary to return to a republican conception of education: an education open to all, which allows everyone to get out of his or her condition, no matter where he or she was born. The one that was the greatness of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u61	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u62	When access to the university and guidance take place without taking into account the expectations and requirements of the courses, and without a personalized support mechanism, this leads to what we knew before Parcoursup: the big lottery of the draw by lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u63	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u64	This year, it was said, less than 500 bachelors remained unassigned at the end of the procedure; They are accompanied by the commissions for access to higher education. We can welcome the fact that our country is making every effort to find a solution for everyone. As for the removal – which you propose in the summary statement – of any allocation to private higher education institutions of general interest, which do carry out such a mission, it would place an unbearable burden on them, even though they have experienced the strongest demographic dynamics. It would ruin all their efforts to promote social openness, leading to an indiscriminate increase in registration fees. Among these institutions, there are quality engineering schools that receive a higher rate of scholarship than some university courses. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u66	As you know, I fully share the idea that we must accompany every young person towards success, by allowing him to give the best of himself. But what do you want to come back to, Mrs. Ressiguier? At the draw? To a larger selection at the entrance to the master's degree? To the selection between the M1 and the M2, which left tens of thousands of students without any degree, when they had started their master's degree? We're wrong to think it was better before. I assure you that things continue to progress towards more democratization and above all towards a training offer that meets the expectations and abilities of students. So let us make sure that they do not lose confidence in them. Everyone can dream of becoming a professional footballer or a star dancer, but at some point you have to realize what you can do. It is important to accompany each young person to the best of what he or she can give and what he or she can receive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u67	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u68	I think we need to build on the needs, namely the number of young people who wish to continue their studies after graduation. There is a need to create places based on these needs, which is not currently being done. As for young people, they are perfectly capable of realizing whether or not they are going to fail in a sector. This failure is sometimes organized, because the means are not up to the limit: because the scholarships are insufficient, 46 per cent of students are forced to work in parallel with their studies and some even live in their cars or squats. These are not the best conditions to study! If we want to give our youth a future, we must start from the needs, realize that these are enormous. Let's ask ourselves: do we really make it a priority? Do we provide the means to lead students to success, individually and collectively? Let us stop dealing with poverty as we do now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u69	Amendment No 779 by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u70	This is an appeal amendment which alerts us to the number of jobs in higher education and research. We have already discussed this issue during the review of the research programming bill, which, I would remind you, provides for a net creation of 5200 positions under the government's employment ceiling, even though about 3500 had been lost in the previous quinquennium. As a result, our country is resuming the creation of new posts, which by 2021 will result in an additional 700 posts, including 385 for the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme. The amendment also seeks to abolish all RNA appropriations. In my view, this would be a very bad way of preparing our country for the major scientific developments ahead and for their applications. More than ever, there is a need to foster the continuum between academic research, industrial development and innovation. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u71	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 904.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u72	It provides for the recruitment of additional research teachers. In France, researchers are too often taken over by their teaching responsibilities and taken over by administrative management functions. In terms of student numbers, they are far fewer than their counterparts in other OECD countries. It is therefore necessary to give them time for research, while allowing them to continue to disseminate their knowledge. The recruitment of an additional 25% of research teachers by 2025, i.e. 9,000 lecturers and 5,000 university professors, would reduce the annual teaching burden by a quarter. We propose to reallocate EUR 170 million for this purpose for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u74	As I have just indicated, the draft budget for 2021 provides for the creation of 700 posts under the State employment ceiling. In addition to this there are fairly significant measures of compensation revalorisation, which will make careers more attractive. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u75	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 905.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u76	It aims to increase the number of research and training engineers and technicians recruited in 2021, at a cost of €135 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u78	In the case of engineers, technicians and administrative staff, the flow of recruitment will be higher than that of departures, which will allow for the strengthening of support and support functions in research laboratories, including scientific and technical functions. In addition, the budget path provides for re-training of engineers and technicians through recruitment. This is a major effort, and it will indeed be accomplished. I would also point out that 700 posts under the State employment ceiling will be created by 2021. My opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u79	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 849.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u80	While we should welcome the upgrading of doctoral contracts – as we say and repeat – we regret that it concerns only new contracts. The salary of doctoral students whose thesis is currently funded by the university is 1769 euros gross per month, which, in our view, is not an acceptable level. We therefore propose to upgrade it by 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u82	The Research Programming Act provides for important measures to improve the remuneration of young researchers, including doctoral students. In this regard, it sets an ambitious objective: an increase of 30% in the minimum remuneration for doctoral contracts by 2027. In addition, anti-inversion devices are provided for young researchers, so as not to penalize those who were recruited before the law came into force. In my view, the amendment is satisfactory, at least in large part. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u83	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 791.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u84	By this appeal amendment, we propose to implement a plan for the tenure of all the precariouss in higher education and research who carry out long-term functions. In 2017, according to the estimates of several trade unions and collectives, France had 23618 non-permanent teachers-researchers, on the one hand, and 19901 non-teacher contract workers employed on permanent missions, on the other. In addition, there were 5116 non-permanent researchers and 11774 engineers and technicians engaged in contractual research and training on permanent missions. Our logic is simple: if staff perform permanent or likely functions, there is no reason not to titularize them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u86	The majority of the 15,000 out-of-ceiling posts provided for in the Programming Act, or more than 11,000, will be for research projects. They therefore do not correspond to permanent functions. However, due to the constraints inherent in the CSD, laboratories are sometimes forced to separate from talent. This is the whole stake of the CDI's scientific mission, which will allow them to redeploy them to new projects that are the subject of new funding. In addition, contractors fall into a wide range of categories. Doctors and ATERs – the temporary teaching and research attachés – are not intended to hold permanent positions, you understand that, since they are still in a training logic. As for invited professors and lecturers, who intervene for a few weeks or months, there is also no need to consider their tenure. The opinion will therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u87	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor in support of Amendment No 906.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u88	It aims to grant a minimum remuneration of 1.5 SMIC to individual teachers who cannot justify a gainful activity outside the courses they provide. Provision should be made for a minimum number of hours for these individual contractors in order to guarantee such remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u90	The term "individual" covers, as you know, very different realities. They are often personalities outside institutions who provide professional insight or expertise in the course of training. They may also be young researchers with a doctoral contract. For young researchers, the challenge is to have funding for their thesis, with vacations being a complete one, while offering them an initial teaching experience. It is the ambition of the research programming law, which provides for the conclusion, by 2021, of almost 300 additional doctoral contracts. In addition, a very important work is being done at present to allow, within a short period of time, the monthly payment of vacations, a principle which has been laid down by an amendment to the programming law. This will be a real step forward, which will solve a real problem. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u92	First of all, I would like to point out that, most of the time, individual teachers are not in a precarious situation, far from it, since 80 per cent of them are qualified professionals from the public or private sectors who are recruited for their scientific, cultural or professional skills. They must then justify a main professional activity, either in France or abroad, of at least 900 hours per year. The amount of remuneration for the additional hour shall be EUR 41,41. You estimate that one hour of teaching is equivalent to 4.2 hours of work. This is a theoretical calculation that means that each teacher-researcher should actually devote more than 800 hours to provide 192 hours of equivalent TD course – directed work. Even by retaining this ratio, the compensation for hours worked remains higher than the net hourly SMIC, knowing that when these overtime hours are paid to public servants, they are not subject to income tax. However, the situation of individual temporary staff should be improved when they are registered doctoral students. This is why, as the Special Rapporteur has pointed out, the draft multi-annual research programming law provides for the monthlyisation of their remuneration. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u93	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 794.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u94	By this amendment, the group of La France insoumée wishes to increase the remuneration of individual contractors in higher education. They do not benefit from the partial payment of transport costs or the social rights associated with the payment of social contributions. They face great insecurity, which is not acceptable. The Confederation of Young Researchers estimates that more than 17,000 individual teachers have more than ninety-six TD equivalent hours per academic year, which corresponds to at least half of the teaching service of a lecturer or university professor, while receiving less than the hourly SMIC. I think it's time to do something so that they can live decently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u96	I will have the same argument as for the previous amendment. The effort to make monthly payments for vacations seems to me to be very important and should be implemented very quickly. And, I repeat, individual contractors come from a variety of backgrounds. Many professional workers work in parallel in the public or private sector and bring their knowledge, expertise and stone to the building of our university curricula. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u98	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u99	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u100	You take it as an excuse or pretext that some individual contractors earn their lives honorably. We're happy for them, but what do we do with others? Do we leave them as they are and don't we give them a boost to live decently? If it's your way of looking at things, I think it's pretty desolating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u101	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 846.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u102	Universities are employing more and more students as resource persons at the university library, as advisers to newcomers, or as a means of taking notes from their disabled fellows. These jobs allow many students to secure income under conditions that are often better than those of the student jobs they can find outside the university, particularly in terms of schedules. A university president tells me that these jobs also give students a better understanding of the university system. However, the proposed wages are not always attractive. Thus, while young people are and will continue to be strongly affected by the health crisis, this amendment aims to allocate additional resources to universities so that they can offer better incomes to the students they employ and, if possible, recruit more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u104	Your wish to upgrade the remuneration of student jobs on campuses is legitimate. They do many services to those who call them and their users – the examples you quote are relevant. In addition, some institutions have allocated own resources to make the increase of these jobs a priority; they should be encouraged to do so. However, it seems to me that, at central level, priority should be given to measures to combat student insecurity. As the Minister pointed out in the general discussion, much is being done in the budget for 2021, not to mention the €150 aid which will be paid in a few weeks to 740,000 students benefiting from a scholarship or APL. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u106	We probably had to explain to you that the fiscal leverage could be activated in this area, but I remind you that the contribution of student life and campus can be mobilized. This represents more than 134 million euros, which the State has decided to leave at the disposal of CROUS and universities, in particular to finance these jobs. Rather, the main challenge lies in the way in which students are paid. We must immeasurably simplify things and allow institutions to offer these jobs other than by using very heavy forms that require the service done before the remuneration is released. Students can only be paid six months after the completion of their mission. That's what we need to work on. I therefore also call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u107	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u108	I agree to withdraw it, hoping that what has just been announced to us by the minister will indeed be worked on and implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u109	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 722.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u110	It aims to provide massive support for the creation of student housing. Currently, only 5 to 7 per cent of students have accommodation in a social residence at the CNOUS – National Centre for Academic and School Works – or the CROUS. But we know that the needs are much greater and that they will be even more so with the social crisis. Housing is the first item of expenditure for a student. Launched in 2018, the plan for the construction of 60000 new student housing units has so far only been implemented half-way through. However, an increasing number of young people will, in the context of the crisis, give up studying whether they find themselves without a housing solution. In the territory from which I am elected, I see the difficulties that may arise, while more and more students are forced to live as part-time residents in neighbourhoods that are not always adapted to this. We really need to take stock of this issue and massively support the creation of student housing. We would thus help the construction sector for which, I would remind you, the recovery plan does not provide for any measures. Investing EUR 1 billion, as I propose in this amendment, would make it possible to finance 20,000 new student housing if the State were to cover all the construction costs. But to the extent that we know that things do not work this way, this measure would represent a tremendous leverage effect. It would lead much fewer young people to give up their study projects and would support the construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u112	You are dealing with a very important issue and the CROUS network provides a very precise follow-up of the operations relating to the construction plan of 60000 student housing units. It has fallen behind for two main reasons: the health crisis has, of course, not encouraged the launching or continuation of the construction sites and, above all, we are working to free up land in the major university cities. This brake, the minister seeks to lift it during each of her trips, as she did recently in Villeneuve-d'Ascq or in the Far East. On the other hand, the priority is to ensure that the full operating losses of the CROUS for the year 2020 are covered by the budget for 2021, as these amounts constitute working capital and are essential for making investments. Indeed, the recovery plan will be used quite heavily in this area. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u114	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u115	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u116	I will introduce a similar amendment in a moment, but I would like to support Mr Taché's amendment. As he said, only 5 to 7 per cent of students are housed in housing like the CROUS. Housing is, however, the first item of expenditure for students and it is obvious that it can be a huge obstacle to education. When you live in the private housing stock, you are condemned to find a small job, because the amount of APL is far from covering the whole rent. However, I do not mean a great ambition on the part of the Government in this area, when supporting the construction of student housing would not only benefit young people, but also benefit employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u117	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No 859.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u118	For students, housing is the first item of expenditure; They often spend half of their meagre income there. Only 7% of students are currently housed in social housing, and in many cases these are buildings that have not been rehabilitated for twenty, thirty, forty, or even fifty years for those dating back to the 1960s. Articles attest to this. During the confinement, students – notably at the University of Lille – found themselves in nine square metres of housing, which they described as prisons without bars. They lived in a few square meters full of cockroaches, in rooms suffering from moisture, mould, a lack of insulation, with holes and plinths taken off, radiators inoperative. The ground floor door opens without a key or code, the sanitary facilities are condemned to all floors of the building and only two toilets and two showers remain available for 150 people. In this case, the argument that it is difficult to find land is inoperative. It is about spending money to ensure decent living conditions for students. And yes, as Mr Taché has said, it is necessary to launch a massive construction of student housing, so that this field of expenditure penalizes their budget much less and that more of them do not have to work in addition to their studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u120	This amendment is similar to the previous one and, I repeat, the question of land ownership arises. You can't solve it with a snap of your fingers; Efforts are being made. You draw an apocalyptic picture of certain situations. For my part, I am in regular contact with the CROUS in my region and have visited their facilities. But I see how much progress has been made in recent decades, especially in relation to the time when I was a student myself. There is a real will to go much further in this area because, you are right, this is a fundamental question. We have the stimulus plan and this 60000 student housing plan for which we must be as combative as possible – and for each of her trips, the minister proves that she knows how to be. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u122	This is a complex issue because, if not, it would have been a long time before things would have been resolved, given that the CROUS are institutions that can borrow to carry out renovations and that the state, like the communities as soon as they can, obviously provides its full support. Work is moving forward in a concrete way. In Villeneuve-d'Ascq the metropolis committed 10 million euros to complete the renovation of the houses. In Metz, where I was a few weeks ago, it was a global commitment of 37 million euros that was made, not only to renovate all the buildings, but, as the rooms will be enlarged, to build an additional building to compensate for the drop in the number of places. Everywhere, commitments are signed between Action logement, the CPU – conference of university presidents – and the CROUS and, at national level, the CNOUS, who will work together on this subject. The question arose no later than last week in Angers. After talking to the mayor of the city, I announce that 400 social housing units will be delivered next year. Managing the land issue, the PLU – local planning plan – and the integration of students into university cities, considering them as a chance and not as something else, are a daily task. Things are moving forward, although, of course, we can only hope that they will move even faster. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u123	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u124	This is the same request, but I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u125	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 845.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u126	While it was a campaign promise – it was recalled – we know that the goal of building 60000 new housing units during the quinquennium will not be achieved. So now we need to take a step point to find out what didn't work and where the student park is. As I said earlier, of course, I am not ignoring the answer that you gave in committee to my question on land, Madam Minister, which the rapporteur recalled. I also welcome the commitment of the Lille metropolis on the subject. The National Steering Committee of the 60000 Student Housing Plan has built a database allowing actors and students to compile a geographical map of academic institutions and residences, and to provide various statistics that are not well known at all. The amendment aims to provide funds so that the State can take stock of the construction and availability of student housing through this database, which it might be wise to cross with the statistics of INSEE – National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u128	As with the previous amendments, the opinion is unfavourable. For hearing the representatives of the NOCUS and its network, I believe that the monitoring of operations is now very fine. Moreover, given the figures given by the minister in the few examples that illustrated her opinion on the previous amendment, EUR 2 million would not solve the very important issue of the lack of student housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u129	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 770.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u130	It tends to create an autonomy allowance in order to remedy the great precariousness in which more and more students are immersed. Everyone is aware of the UNEF survey that the cost of living for students has increased by more than 3% in one year. Although the amount of grants has been raised by 1.2%, it only corresponds to 67 euros per year, and again, for the highest grants – even if this is still an appreciable gesture, it is obviously far from being sufficient. As we have already mentioned several times in our discussions, both in committee and in session, 46% of students are forced to work to finance their studies. It is time to give them the means to take up their studies decently. That is why we are calling for the creation of an autonomy allowance of 800 euros per month, which would be paid for three years to young people between 18 and 25 years of age, provided that they have qualified training and are subject to resources. For courses over three years, the current scholarship system would be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u132	The introduction of an autonomy allowance is not a small subject. Therefore, an amendment to the PLF does not seem to me to be the right vehicle for understanding it, especially since its funding raises questions. Indeed, if I understood the summary statement of your amendment, your proposal would result in the abolition of all higher education scholarships; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u133	Not necessarily...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u134	...so some would be winners and others losers. The positive and negative consequences of the measure must therefore be the subject of thorough work. It does not seem to be a priority to destabilise our entire system of social assistance, but to give priority to the upgrading of scholarships, to taking account of more contemporary resources for their calculation, to freezing rents, to restaurant tickets at 1 euro, or to strengthening the state guarantees for student loans – not to mention the exceptional measures which will be allocated at the end of next month to 740,000 student fellows. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u136	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u137	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u138	We agree with you, Mr rapporteur: it is not an amendment that should create the youth autonomy allowance, but a government project! Only, where is this project? He doesn't exist! What you propose are crumbs, alms; However, it is in a time like this, when young people are getting full of it, that we should establish a minimum youth! We're going through a trial. Youth, in particular, is experiencing a trial. Now, the strength of our country in trials like this is good to lean on it to grow up and grow the sense of justice. What happened after the Second World War, which is probably one of the most terrible trials we have experienced? A comprehensive social security plan has been introduced for old age. And at that time, it was by moving from family solidarity to the idea of social and national solidarity that, for the first time in millennia, "old age" no longer meant "poverty". What we did in 1945 for old age, we should do today for young people. We should move from family solidarity – some families have the means to help their children, others do not – to social solidarity, and then national solidarity. The political majority is 18 years old; the criminal majority is 18 years of age; Why wouldn't the social majority be at the age of 18?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u139	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u140	The meeting was resumed. I have before me two amendments, Nos 725 and 727, which can be presented together. Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u141	These amendments aim to upgrade grants on the basis of social criteria. Some colleagues were now proposing the creation of an autonomy allowance, to which the Special Rapporteur replied that this was not the time to destabilize our social protection system. The major crises are, however, an opportunity to make courageous decisions; But let's admit it. This afternoon we will discuss a very simple measure to protect young people in difficulty: lowering the minimum age required to benefit from the AHR to 18 years, the income of active solidarity. There would be nothing to upset; Therefore, you will certainly be in favour of these amendments. In the meantime, I'm coming back to the students. The Government has taken steps to support youth employment. On the other hand, nothing has been done either for the young people who have not studied and have no job, who find themselves in the most difficult situation, or for the students. Only €150 was finally granted to all the fellows, as well as to the young people who are affected by the LPA. Now 150 euros is an emergency aid: for a few weeks, it will reduce the cost of the races or cover the most urgent expenses. That is not what will deter tens of thousands of young people in this generation from giving up their studies, which will happen if we do nothing. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I therefore propose, on the one hand, that the grants should be increased by 10% on the basis of social criteria, and, on the other hand, that the grants should be opened over 12 months rather than 10 months, i.e. that this money should also be paid in July and August. This would ensure a significant contribution to young people who will not be able to work because of the terrible situation on the labour market, who were unable to work this summer and set aside money for this academic year. They could continue their studies in complete serenity, without fear of having to give up. Let it not be said that our legislature will have let a whole generation abandon its study projects: we would not be proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u143	In addition to what was recalled during the general discussion, the text provides for a fairly significant extension of the number of beneficiaries of social grants, which will also be upgraded, taking into account 2020 revenues. In addition, the majority has changed the terms of the award: it now starts on 25 August and has been extended to July, on an exceptional basis, for the year 2020. So it cannot be said that nothing has been done. The €51 million programmed for 2021 bear witness to this. Therefore, unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u144	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No 879.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u145	[[Ms. Dominique David protested]] Grantee, Amanda receives 567 euros per month. As it was not enough for her to live, she kept children: rising at five and a half o'clock in the morning, bus at six and twenty o'clock, beginning her work at seven o'clock, until eight and a half o'clock where she laid the child at the entrance to her school; Then another guard in the evening... How can we study quietly in these conditions? And, further anguish, his job – like so many others – disappeared in the spring. In the current times, it is essential to increase significantly both the number and the amount of grants; students must be able to live with it, without having to look for small jobs that are increasingly difficult to find.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u147	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u149	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u150	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u151	"Same opinion"... Actually without notice,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u152	We've already answered you, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u153	... while 39% of young people aged 18 to 24 say they have lost income, 44% feel isolated, 32% fear that they will not be able to pay their rent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u154	According to UNEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u155	And what gestures: confetti! You are not trying to meet the expectations of a desperate youth who may become more and more desperate. Earlier, Ms Descamps proposed creating jobs at universities. I hear there are no more jobs today than 20 years ago; But, twenty years ago, they were linked to education – in colleges, high schools, universities – which had a much closer connection with education than working as a babysitter or at McDonald's. Today, your answer should take into account both decency and meaning: how to make a living and how to give meaning to one's life. On these two points, you remain silent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u156	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u157	I gave an reasoned opinion on the two previous amendments, both aimed at redeploying EUR 400 million for the benefit of the fellows. Your amendment has the same objective and covers 92 million: the same arguments apply, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u158	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u159	Mr Special Rapporteur, I have heard you respond to my amendments. No one says that nothing has been done,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u160	Yes, Mr. Ruffin says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u161	... that there is no provision in the budgetary programmes we are considering. Indeed, I have already mentioned the exceptional aid of 150 euros; In fact, grants must be raised by 1 or 2%, construction of 60,000 student housing units is planned. We only wonder if this can be enough in the dramatic situation we are experiencing. Measures planned in ordinary times cannot be effective in times of crisis. Again, you do not answer us about the tens of thousands of young people who will have to give up their studies if we simply grant them 150 euros and revalue their scholarship by 1%, and if we do not accelerate the construction of student housing. In the face of this situation, which you cannot ignore, what do we do? Of course, there are the budgetary provisions that we adopt every year. But we were able to draw up a €100 billion recovery plan to help businesses; Why would we be unable to decide on meaningful measures, up to the crisis, for young people and students? To that, I repeat, we have no answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u162	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 875.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u163	This amendment by our colleagues Dunoyer and Gomès concerns New Caledonian students. In 2015, the average price gap between New Caledonia and the metropolis was 33 per cent; 73.4 per cent for food products, 63.6 per cent for communications, and 37.1 per cent for housing. These are the specificities of New Caledonia and French Polynesia that call for modulation of the criteria for the award of national scholarships in these territories. The inadequacy of their eligibility limits to these economic and geographical particularities leads many young people to give up their higher education, their families being too rich for them to receive a grant, but too poor to bear the cost of these studies. The aim of this amendment is therefore to transfer EUR 2.6 million from action 14, "Real Estate", from programme 150, "Superior training and university research", to action 01, "Direct aids", from programme 231, "Student life". This amount corresponds to the amount of scholarships that would be awarded to New Caledonian students who request them, but is denied because of the inadequacy, I insist, of metropolitan eligibility limits at the cost of living in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u165	It seems to me that Mr Dunoyer tabled an identical amendment last year. It aims to redeploy €2.6 million for student scholarships. However, this amount should be allocated to all scholarship students, as there cannot be any difference in treatment between them. The increase would therefore be minimal, making the scheme inoperative. I would also like to recall that the provinces of New Caledonia are also deploying some 20 territorial mechanisms to support scholarship holders on the same basis, often as grants awarded on the basis of social criteria. Finally, the opening of a debate on the differentiation of scholarships according to the territories would lead to a very complex discussion: Paris, Île-de-France and the major metropolises are also territories where the cost of living is higher than in my province, for example. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u167	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u168	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u169	I would like to make a point, Mr Special Rapporteur: teachers in the overseas territories are overpaid. As you have just been told, the cost of living in New Caledonia is 33 per cent higher on average than that of the metropolis and the difference is 77 per cent for housing and 67 per cent for communications. I therefore do not understand why ultra-marine students and their families could not benefit from differential treatment in view of the over-remuneration which, I repeat, teachers enjoy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u170	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor in support of Amendment No 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u171	The aim of this amendment is to extend the price of the university restaurant ticket to 1 euro to all students, and not just to fellows. This emergency measure, if it is welcome, only concerns scholarship students, i.e. less than 40% of our students. However, already weakened before, the student population is one of the groups most affected by the economic crisis. Food is a crucial issue in student life and, while the crisis is affecting the entire student world, and not just scholarship holders, it is essential that everyone can enjoy a meal at 1 euro.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u173	It is unfavorable, as it was when you tabled the amendment in committee, Mrs Manin. In fact, the standard price for a meal in a university restaurant, which is heavily subsidized, today amounts to 3.30 euros. The extension of the tariff to 1 euro to all students would be tantamount to benefiting, for example, the children of deputies. Is it really a national priority to extend the benefits of these budgets to children from rather wealthy families? It seems to me that there are other priorities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u175	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u176	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u177	I cannot understand, Mr Special Rapporteur, the expression "children of deputies". Some Members may not have sufficient resources; they may have been unemployed before their election... I understand your point, but not the expression "children of deputies."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u178	That was an example, Mrs. Manin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u179	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 880.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u180	In France, over the past 14 years, the standard of living of young people has increased by 67 euros and that of those over 65 by 2900 euros. The poverty rate among young people is now well above that of the rest of the population, with a gap of more than 10 points. In this context, the crisis of the covid-19 is a revelation and an accelerator. It is a serious mistake not to close this gap, which is already open and which will widen even further, for our young people, for the future and for the country. One of the tools to reduce this gap is for students in CROUS budgets. In particular, assistance has been removed by your government, the Minister: assistance in seeking the first job, the PFRA. We know, however, that major difficulties will arise. I was referring to my neighbour on the train earlier, but his case is representative of that of hundreds of thousands of young people who are going to find their first job. This aid, which was granted by the CROUS and paid monthly for four months, was EUR 300 for apprentices and corresponded to the annual amount of the grant which they had received so far. It has benefited 25,800 students and 2,000 apprentices. This aid, which would be very useful today, in times of crisis, has been abolished! Know, for the little story, that it was when the university presidents asked for its increase, in January 2019, considering that this was a useful measure, that they discovered at the turn of an article of the finance law that this aid was being abolished! We're asking for his recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u182	Amendment No 880 does not concern assistance in the search for the first job: it concerns social workers in the CROUS. This question of human resources is essential, but it should be stressed that it depends more on means of intervention than on the number of personnel, as we have heard during some hearings. The budget for 2021 allows for an increase in these resources, since 122 million euros are injected into the CROUS network. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u184	I will not go back to the unfavorable opinion of the Special Rapporteur, whom I share, but I would like to re-establish certain facts. Yes, ARPE was removed, first because it was under-consumed because the students did not use it. It has been replaced by the youth guarantee, the amount of which – 497 euros per month – is higher. In addition, this assistance offers students support by professionals in their job search, which I think is very important. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As we speak of the CROUS, I would like to pay tribute to the exceptional commitment of their personnel, both during confinement and during this period of re-entry. I travel on the ground every week, meeting with students, institutional and CROUS staff, which allows me to measure the extent of their commitment to support our students. I wanted to thank them publicly in front of the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u185	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 821.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u186	We propose to recruit social workers from the CROUS. The Federation of General Student Associations – FAGE – conducted a study in collaboration with Ipsos on the impact of the health crisis on young people between the ages of 18 and 25. The survey shows that 35%, or more than a third, have given up on treatment in the last three months. 42 per cent reported difficulties in paying for medical procedures or medicines in the last three months and 73 per cent reported having been psychologically affected. It is therefore not out of carelessness, as we were told in committee, that young people give up care, but for serious material reasons. If we count in Germany a social worker for 5,000 students, the situation is very different in France, where there is only one for 12,000 students. What we are proposing is very simple: it is a question of recruiting companions to reach the ratio of an assistant to 7,000 students, a figure that does not come from anywhere. The cost of this measure has been estimated at €7.5 million – an effort that we can make absolutely possible – through a flash mission on the financing of the CROUS, a mission which we presented to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mrs Fabienne Colboc and myself. We have heard from representatives of many CROUS personnel. Those accompanying them told us that they were aware of the shortage of their staff and also deplored a loss of sense of their profession, which affected them, due to their inability to help students properly. We must therefore help the CROUS by recruiting more social workers, so that they can take better care of the students themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u188	The issue of student health is essential. In this regard, one of the key objectives of the creation of the student and campus contribution – CVEC – was to foster actions to promote associative life, sport and health on campuses. The device is growing in power, as twenty-six multidisciplinary health houses have been created, allowing access to health professionals on campuses without any advance of fees. This is progress, which will be continued. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u190	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u191	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u192	I don't think you're measuring the student situation. One day, unfortunately, this will end badly because many of them – sometimes even their parents – are led to make desperate gestures. The €7.5 million effort we are asking for is not a big deal, and we can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u193	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 910.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u194	When I tabled this amendment in the Committee on Finance, the Special Rapporteur responded by detailing the Government's efforts to promote student health. I have noted this information well, but I still maintain my amendment because it also deals with the associative, cultural and sporting activities of our students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u196	We have already dealt with this subject, Mrs Manin. The decrease in appropriations of EUR 300 000 does not in fact relate to the financing of associative, cultural and sporting activities, which are intervention expenditure, but to operating expenditure other than staff expenditure. Within this same action, the "stranded for success" scheme will receive additional funding of EUR 1 million for 2021 and again for 2022. In the end, therefore, this heading is increasing its budget. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u197	Mrs Dominique David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1003.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u198	The purpose of this amendment is to question the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation about the commitments made for the creation of new posts in the national higher schools of architecture – ENSA – which have not been fulfilled. The reform of schools of architecture, implemented in February 2018, aims to strengthen research there. To this end, hourly discharges must be granted to research teachers, which requires a significant increase in the number of posts in schools. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed in 2017 between the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation and the Ministry of Culture; It provides for the creation of 30 posts per year, shared equally between the two ministries for five years. However, the creation of fifteen full-time equivalent posts costs about EUR 1 million. The aim of this amendment is therefore to provide EUR 1 million for Action 01 of the 150 "Higher Education and University Research" programme by withdrawing the same sum from Action 01 of the 142 "Higher Education and Agricultural Research" programme. I must say at this stage that, as special rapporteur for the culture budget, I have tabled a similar amendment on this mission. However, as of 2019, the Ministry of Research has not created a single position for the ENSAs, that nothing is foreseen in the 2021 finance bill and that the 30 posts created since 2017 are clearly not enough, unless it abandons the ambitions of the reform. However, everyone agrees on the relevance of the development of research in the ENSAs, for the schools themselves but also for the other universities and for the research units in which they participate. Answers must now be given, at the risk of the social conflict that stirred up the ENSA last winter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u200	Your amendment raises an important issue, that of research in the ENSA at a time when local and regional authorities and the National Cohesion Agency of the Territories – ANCT – also have needs for applied research in the field of architecture. I did not find any evidence of a formal commitment to job creation in the ENSAs, but in any event, I think that with this appeal amendment, you would like above all to alert the Government. He is already aware of this, which the minister will certainly confirm to you, and that is why I invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u202	A formal commitment had been made to create thirty posts over two years in the ENSA. It was held, since the corresponding jobs were transferred to management in 2016, then created in a consolidated manner as part of the financial laws for 2017 and 2018. The ENSAs have gradually moved closer to university standards by transforming their governance. Teachers in these schools, who rather had profiles of architectural professionals and were recruited on a contractual basis, will be able to benefit from measures designed to transform job managers into a long-term body of teachers-researchers, who will be almost similar to those of teachers and lecturers. A National Council of Teachers-Researchers of the ENSA has been set up to provide guarantees on the independence of these new teaching bodies. Finally, we continue to work with the Ministry of Culture to ensure that the situation continues to progress. I therefore call on you to withdraw this amendment and, failing that, to issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u203	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u204	In view of the Government's commitment to continue working on this subject, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u205	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 417.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u206	While Montpellier alone accounts for 74% of the Academy's students, Béziers welcomes only 1.4%. On the basis of this observation, my appeal amendment is intended to underline the need to assist university branches located in medium-sized cities, which is above all a matter of political will. If you remove 10,000 students in Toulouse or Montpellier, it doesn't change the life of these municipalities, but if you add 10,000 students to an average city like Béziers, it changes everything for the city and for the agglomeration. However, certain fields are very much in demand: studying letters or psychology in Béziers is very good, but specific fields such as wine trades, personal aid or tourism trades would be much more suited to local training needs – they are even absolutely indispensable, and I do not understand why the State does not set them up. The west of the Hérault department is severely affected by unemployment – its rate is 19%, compared with an average of 14% for France, and more than 8,000 job offers are not filled in the employment pool. There is therefore a clear need to remedy this gap. The Dickroise antenna Du Guesclin was only half built, and we only ask to realize the second part. In addition, the University Institute of Technology – IUT – planned to host 800 students today welcomes only 510, due to a lack of resources to recruit teachers. It is a call for help that I am making with this amendment: we really need to help the university branches of the medium-sized cities – and in these times of covid epidemic, such a project can only be beneficial for the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u208	As in the past year, you are presenting us with a very catchy amendment, which I have understood, however, that it relates more generally to university branches. I would like to point out that territorial logic is also involved, and that institutions are autonomous in defining strategies and deciding to give or withdraw resources to certain antennas. Within the framework of the PLF, the national representation is not intended to decide on this point, let alone to make transfers of appropriations to particular university sites. Such a proposal would have its place in another legislative vehicle, which is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u210	I agree with what the Special Rapporteur has just said, and I would point out that Montpellier III University has benefited from a budget increase of €1.8 million in 2020, aimed in particular at supporting the creation of posts on the Béziers site, which the Ministry also supports by authorising the establishment of new IUT departments since the beginning of 2017. The strategic and management dialogue with institutions also takes into account student demographics and the capacity of institutions to deploy university branches. With regard to the doubling of the surface of the site, the future State-region plan contract is in preparation and the prefect will have the task of selecting, together with the rector, the operations to be retained for the period 2021-2027. I have no doubt that the operation concerned is one of those that will be examined. For all these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment and, failing that, issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u211	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs Ménard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u212	I thank the Special Rapporteur and the Minister for their replies. Without challenging the principle of institutional autonomy, it seems to me that the Government's three-year statements in favour of equal opportunities in the territories would find a form of implementation in support of medium-sized cities. Of course, measures have already been taken in this direction – I am thinking, for example, of the Action Cœur de Ville plan – but we cannot simply act on one aspect: support for medium-sized cities must be part of a global plan, of which students and university life are part. As I said, there are requests for the opening of channels which are not satisfied, and it would be a good act of political will on your part to encourage academic institutions to develop their branches located in medium-sized cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u213	I have before me three amendments, Nos 772, 432 and 773, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 772.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u214	According to the Institut national du cancer – INCa, every year more than 2200 children suffer from cancer in France, of which nearly 450 in the 15-17 age group, and these dramatic figures have not declined in recent years. If cancer is always a difficult test, it is all the more so when it affects a child, because it is not in the natural order of things for parents to have to assist their children in the face of a disease as deadly as this one – I recall that, contrary to what is seen in adults, the survival rate in children at five years after diagnosis has stagnated for about thirty years. Two years ago – and I thank the colleagues present that night – the House had mobilized against this scourge, which must not be fatal. At that time, we obtained €5 million in additional funding, which enabled advances such as the funding of the "Data Sharing" and "High Risk-High Gain" calls for projects. Unfortunately, this EUR 5 million is not enough, as many scientific experts believe that the needs of research against paediatric cancers are rather around EUR 15 million annually. In addition, INCa, which manages these specific funds, has examined only part of the projects that have been favourably evaluated by scientific experts, in particular because of the lack of resources. Of the EUR 5 million we have obtained, EUR 2 million has been allocated from appropriations for INSERM, which is also working on cancer research. In view of the situation, this amendment proposes an increase of EUR 10 million in funding for cancer research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u215	Amendment No 432 by Mr Julien Dive is being defended. Can we consider that your amendment No 773 is being defended, Mr Diard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u216	Amendment No 773 is a back-up amendment proposing an increase of EUR 5 million in funding for cancer research. That amount had seemed relevant to the Members present during the examination of the text in committee, and I hope that the Minister will also approve it by issuing an opinion in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u217	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u218	With your permission, Madam President, my answer will also be to Mr Woerth's amendment No. 543, which we are going to consider in a few moments – I would like to take this opportunity to thank Fabrice Le Vigoureux and the Assembly's administrators for their excellent work. The National Cancer Institute will benefit, for the third consecutive year, from an abundance of €5 million in 2021, in line with the commitment made in 2019 for the period 2019-2023. A working group has been set up, bringing together under the coordination of INCa the collectives GRAVIR and Growing up without cancer, as well as the National Union of Parents' Associations of Children with Cancer or Leukemia – UNAPEL. In 2020, two calls for applications and two calls for research projects were launched. This is a call for projects within a consortium, on the theme "Sources and causes of pediatric cancers" published in May 2020; a call for "High Risk-High Gain" paediatric cancer research projects, also published in May 2020, to support bold, conceptually new and risky projects; a call for applications on the international mobility of young researchers in paediatric cancer, published in January 2020, aimed at improving the training of young researchers; a call for applications on the acceleration of fundamental and translational research in paediatric cancerology. In addition, INCa is working to set up a knowledge portal dedicated to paediatric cancers on its e-cancer.fr website and organizes interdisciplinary seminars on this topic. I would point out that research on paediatric cancerology is supported by competitive public funding from INCa, whose representatives I have heard, and from the cancer institute of the Alliance for Life and Health Sciences – AVIESAN – as well as from the investment programmes for the future – PIA – which finance the hospital-university institutes – IHU. As part of the 10-year strategy to combat cancer, the fight against paediatric cancers and the sequelae of these cancers will therefore be a priority. Finally, I would point out that the European Commission has made the fight against cancer a priority for the next seven years, with the establishment of a European Cancer Plan and a Cancer Europe mission that should have a large budget. In view of the fact that the appropriations, renewed each year until 2023, for a total of EUR 25 million, have been paid out, and that the guidelines given by the working group appear to be good, I ask you to withdraw these amendments and, failing that, I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u220	In addition to the Special Rapporteur's explanations, I confirm that EUR 5 million is "sound" in the budget, as it is now said, that they will be spent on paediatric cancers on a sustainable basis. More generally, let me refer to all the funding dedicated to paediatric cancer, beyond the additional funding that had been provided by the PLF for 2019. More than EUR 10.5 million is foreseen in the Investment for the Future programme. In addition, in 2020, €36 million was allocated by the National Research Agency, the ANR, to so-called "white" research projects, i.e. not arrowed but related to paediatric cancers. In addition, 80 units of INSERM have benefited from €21 million to combat paediatric cancers and their sequelae in young patients undergoing remission or cure. As I committed myself – and as the rapporteur pointed out – the European Commission has made the fight against cancer one of the tasks of the future Horizon Europe programme. It sets itself an ambitious goal: to halve paediatric cancers. Since these cancers are by definition rare diseases, they must be treated as part of a network that coordinates all French and European research communities. INCa will contribute to the creation of such a network, in coordination with INSERM and AVIESAN. Since they are satisfied, I ask that these amendments be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u221	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u222	I had tabled an amendment similar to those of Messrs. Diard and Dive, but for technical reasons, I can't defend him today – whatever, we're not here for a race for amendments or for buzz. However, it is important for me to support our colleagues' amendments on this crucial issue. I understand your position, Madam Minister – we have discussed this at length, including in the ministry – but could we not make an additional effort to mark the year 2021 and give hope to children with cancer as well as to their parents?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u223	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u224	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u225	The EUR 5 million spent on the fight against pediatric cancers is certainly a step forward, although they are so key, but the key question remains: are they sufficient? The answer is no. We ask you for an additional effort, which will be crucial for children affected by cancer and their families. In addition, it appears that calls for projects are difficult to complete and that the corresponding appropriations are not fully consumed. What about the minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u226	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u227	We have regularly debated this subject and I will be less complacent than Mrs Descamps to you, the minister – each of them fulfills her role. We are talking only about EUR 5 or 10 million, about a research budget that you yourself describe as a history, in which additional billions are spilled. The gap is clear between your announcements about the overall budget, and your refusal to abound the funds dedicated to pediatric cancers. Of course, we cannot systematically shift resources to each sector of research, but we regularly alert you to the inadequate consideration of paediatric cancers. We had already launched the alert in 2019, and a first effort had been made. We play our full role when we say that the resources devoted to this sector remain largely inadequate – the chairman of the Finance Committee will say it again in a few moments – especially since the national community is very sensitive to this issue. Contrary to what you say, minister, the needs are not being met.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u228	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u229	I will take the opportunity to present my amendment No 543. The Government's position in the fight against pediatric cancer is a mystery – I say it without a trial of intent. Patrick Hetzel and Éric Diard recalled this: two years ago, the Finance Committee adopted – against the Government's opinion – one of my amendments aimed at allocating funds to research against pediatric cancers, which was then rejected in the sitting at four o'clock in the morning in an effervescent hemicycle, before the majority voted, this time under the aegis of Mrs de Montchalin, then head of the La République en Marche group for the same Finance Committee, a budget of 5 million euros... We also asked for a working group to be set up. However, it met without parliamentarians; We were invited to his seminary only a few days before, as if we had been forgotten! I have written to you about this, Madam Minister, but I have never received an answer. Without any will to argue or politicize the debate, I ask you a simple question: why this attitude? I certainly see progress: yellow is better informed and you are giving us figures, which was not the case before. While funding is currently being allocated all the time – I can testify to this as co-rapporteur of the "Relaunch Plan" mission – while we will even mention some €36 billion in appropriations, a budget of €5 million does not weigh much. So why refuse to increase funding for research against pediatric cancer? It is obvious that we need more research; If not, it would be possible! It is equally obvious that we can make an additional effort. Some projects do not receive satisfaction! [[MM. Vincent Descoeur and Patrick Hetzel applaud]] Now that a first budget of EUR 5 million has been consolidated, we need to raise it to EUR 10 million – let me remind you that the initial request was EUR 15 million. Those who consider that such an increase is not useful are the first to increase appropriations here and there. You're spilling credits everywhere; An amount of 468 billion has even been announced! We are in a phase of transition, and children's health warrants an acceleration of research dynamics against pediatric cancer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u230	There are priorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u231	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u232	President Woerth has largely outstripped my remarks. If this amendment comes back to the House almost every year, it is because of the continuing dissatisfaction of national representation. No one claims that no effort has been made; However, efforts have not been sufficient. President Woerth recalled the approach that has been taken: in 2017, we mentioned not 15 but 20 million euros. The amount of appropriations was finally set at 15 million, after almost unanimous vote in the Finance Committee. If amendments are again tabled every year, it is because the initial response is insufficient. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for these amendments. The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u233	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u234	The Liberties and Territories Group will support these amendments. The EUR 5 million voted last year is certainly a first step, but let us remember that of this amount, EUR 2 million has been taken from the appropriations of INSERM, an organisation which is also working on cancer research. It would be appropriate to vote on these amendments so that the research effort is further developed; We owe it to the children affected by cancer and their parents. Many parents' associations are asking us to increase funding for paediatric cancer research. These amendments offer the possibility: let us seize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u235	Make a move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u236	On Amendment No 543, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u237	Let's be clear: I don't refuse anything, I'm just saying that research on pediatric cancers is funded through multiple channels. This means that its appropriations will of course be abounded by the law on the programming of research: more than 36 million euros are spent on it thanks to the ANR. And as the ANR budget is increased by 400 million euros, I have no doubt that several tens of millions of euros will be allocated to research against pediatric cancers. It is true, Mr Diard, that not all the credits were initially consumed. This simply means that, in the opinion of the specialists, the projects were not of sufficient quality to be funded. The corresponding funding was extended the following year so that the projects were better prepared and more likely to be validated by scientists. This is the mode of operation of the research. In addition, it is important that INCa work towards the deployment of a European network in this area. Paediatric cancers can certainly be addressed by caregivers, clinical research and translational research, but it also requires important fundamental knowledge: we cannot prejudge which ones will be decisive, especially in terms of developmental biology and stem cells. It is through such a networked approach that we will understand the dysfunctions that cause pediatric cancers, many of which depend on embryonic development. Bridging funding for paediatric cancer research, by freezing a budget in the bill, does not seem to me to be the best way to support all the disciplines that contribute to fighting these cancers, improving patient care, eliminating diagnostic deficiencies, and finally promoting the resilience and reconstruction of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u238	At a time when billions are raining!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u239	Can we consider that you have already defended your amendment No 543, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Finance?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u240	Yes, but I would like to add that there are a lot of things we don't know, and 500 or 600 children die every year without being able to heal them, not to mention the consequences for others. There is therefore a need for better communication between researchers and between countries, but there is also a need to devote more resources to basic research. And let me not be told that there is enough money, because it has not moved for ten or fifteen years. We must therefore accelerate, and increase the means. The majority is less shy when it comes to voting on the billions of euros in the recovery plan. We are talking here about an additional EUR 5 million, that is to say 10 million arrows. As for the figures of EUR 20 or 25 million you are quoting, Madam Minister, that is very good, but I have not seen them summarized as clearly as you have just said in the accounting documents to be noted. You have an over-accounting approach to this issue; God knows that there are many subjects on which this is not the case! Knowing why this is the case here, I repeat, is a real mystery. Perhaps the INCa would tell you that it is unable to spend that amount, but then I don't see how we can spend 25% of IAP credits in the first year if we haven't been able to spend 50% over ten years. You must continue to release credits and show that there is a movement. We must also continue to inform the House because we want to look specifically at what is being done in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u241	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u242	Your remarks are contradictory, Madam Minister: you make it clear that there is a lack of money for basic research, especially for paediatric cancers, and you are struggling to stay at this amount of EUR 5 million. While, as Éric Woerth pointed out, for some expenditure, the amounts increase from 10 to 20, 30 or 100 million euros, we are simply asking for the appropriations to be increased to 10 million euros. I know that many of our colleagues are concerned and have received in their permanence families affected by this tragedy which, for me, is the most horrific, the absolute horror. I therefore hope that we will make an effort to include in the financial law this amount of EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u243	I put to the vote Amendment No. 543.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u244	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 13 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u245	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 862.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u246	It aims to allocate 1 million euros to research into the causes of cancer, the leading cause of death in France, with 385,000 new cases and 150,000 deaths each year. It therefore seems essential to concentrate financial resources on the research, I would stress, of the causes of cancer in order to act, in the end, on the preventive aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u248	Without prolonging the debate on paediatric cancers, I should like to point out that the President of INCa, whom I have received for a very long time in preparation of this budget, has never asked me to include this additional EUR 5, 7 or 10 million – but the debate is closed. As far as Amendment No 862 is concerned, the INCa is currently under discussion with the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care, or DGOS, of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, for the financing of actions in the health plan. To this end, it receives a public service subsidy of EUR 40.5 million. Under the programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research", INCa also receives an allocation from the ANR of €38 million in 2020, as well as, for the third consecutive year, the 5 million we have just mentioned about paediatric cancer research. Finally, as part of the 10-year strategy, an additional allocation of the ANR is announced at INCa. To date, the Commission is awaiting confirmation of the amount and hopes that it will finance further actions under its 10-year strategy, the definition of which is in the process of being finalized. For these reasons, which demonstrate sustained funding for cancer research, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, failing which I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u249	Mr Pauget's Amendment No 328 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u250	This amendment concerns Lyme disease, which we discussed last year. National funding for tick-borne vector diseases, including Lyme disease, is provided in the form of competitive projects, by ANR, ANSES and DGOS within the framework of the clinical research programme. Between 2005 and 2018, the NRA identified 16 projects involving pathogenic reservoirs, their transfer to humans and related biological mechanisms, funded for €5.4 million. The same NRA has contributed to the development of new diagnostic tools and biological research on Lyme disease is therefore already fully included in its priorities. Thanks to the recurrent support of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to research organisations, INRAE has six dedicated sites and infrastructures, insectariums and tick farms. ANSES is also very active on this communicable vector disease and collaborates on some topics with INRAE. These diseases are also research topics of the Institut Pasteur, INSERM and CNRS. At the end of 2019, a study was carried out to identify all projects for the control of MVT, or vector-borne diseases, and 45 such projects were identified as of January 2020, for an overall amount of approximately €6 million. In total, this research involves approximately 100 full-time equivalents of researchers and research technicians. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u252	This pathology has not delivered all its secrets, far from it. Although we know the pathogen well today, we still have a lot to do with treatment. The Special Rapporteur has indicated all the figures, but I would add that, as always in these areas, we are faced with a situation which draws the researchers' attention to a pathology and presupposes continuity in the way in which the solution must be constructed, which must emerge from the knowledge produced by fundamental research, which, I have pointed out many times, can intervene in all disciplinary fields. Therefore, when we look at the various projects funded around this pathology – like, for the rest, all the pathologies – we find researchers from all the disciplines represented at the CNRS, at multidisciplinary universities, at INRAE for more defined points and at INSERM, as well as funding linked, when we get to bed, to clinical research projects. It is therefore a question of multifactorial financing each time, and that is why it is very difficult to know exactly what funding is devoted to a particular pathology. Thus, a particular mechanism can be used to propose therapeutic solutions for five, six, ten, or sometimes fifty pathologies, and the question then arises as to what pathology is linked to the fundamental discovery or knowledge that has enabled solutions to be found for multiple applications. I therefore believe that it is essential to finance research as a whole properly. This is what we will be able to do through the multi-annual programming project. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u253	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u254	Mr Special Rapporteur, the funding you have identified, as insufficient, is not enough to meet the challenge we are facing. They concern a large number of projects and, in any event, as I pointed out in my report for an opinion and recalled at the beginning of this meeting, all the stakeholders interviewed, all of them, stressed the lack of funding, the lack of monitoring of research resources and the lack of steering and coordination of this work. There is a real problem here. Failure to respond to the request for appropriations for Lyme disease attests to the lack of ambition of this draft budget for research on the development of zoonoses and for the fight against them. This reflects an insufficient awareness, on which I will return to another amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u255	In response to some of our colleagues who are wondering why the identical amendments are not presented in a consolidated manner, I would remind you that we are in the context of a budgetary exercise and that, until they have exhausted the appropriations, the amendments can, in a way, be combined. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 550.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u256	Thank you, Madam President, for this lighting. The purpose of this amendment is to target specific credits to increase research into the diagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease caused by tick bite infected with Lyme bcorliosis. The following two amendments, tabled by Vincent Descoeur and Nicole Trisse, will go in the same direction. Madam Minister, at three round tables that we organised in the Committee on Social Affairs and which I was co-rapporteur with Stéphane Viry, we found that research into diagnosis and treatment was a strong demand from all the parties involved. The amendment therefore aims to devote an additional EUR 20 million to the action "Scientific and technological research in the life sciences and health sciences", by allocating it to INSERM, so as to ensure some coordination of all studies in this field that you have mentioned. There is, of course, no question of abolishing EUR 20 million in space research. Article 40 of the Constitution obliges us to make this proposal, but it is clear that the Government can lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u258	My answer to Amendment No 328 applies to the following three amendments, Nos 550, 179 and 236. However, it must be clear to national representation that, as far as I do not think it is necessary to include additional budgets, so much attention has been paid to the issue of coordination and pilotage, and we must look at it for the financial year 2021 and beyond.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u260	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u261	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u262	This debate is in line with the debate we have had on paediatric cancers. Lyme disease is a serious subject which, moreover, raises scientific controversies – the existence of divergent views within the scientific community is normal. INSERM, which was still conducting consultations at the beginning of the year, expressed its opinion: it is necessary to avoid powdering and to put the package in place by means to produce concrete effects and, ultimately, for research to succeed in making a breakthrough. However, we are told that the means currently available are insufficient to do so – the INSERM, interviewed, makes it clear. The Government affirms that the issue will be resolved through an overall increase in research funding. On the contrary, we affirm that specific means are needed to achieve this much-anticipated breakthrough that I have just mentioned – unless we rely on other European countries, which would be paradoxical... In my recent exchanges with them, the members of the Faculty of Medicine in Strasbourg who deal with infectious diseases say unequivocally that more resources are needed because, at this stage, budgets are not on the table. Do not tell us that they are, Madam Minister, for this is clearly not the case, as even members of your own majority confirm!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u263	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u264	This amendment is in line with Mrs Dubie's. I repeat that it is a question of means and coordination of work. The Special Rapporteur refers to the efforts that would be made in 2021, but it seems to me that the examination of this research budget is an opportunity to take decisions. We have referred to the fragmentation of resources. The ANR has identified 16 long-standing projects, but only four since 2015, amounting to €1.5 million – it is difficult, under these conditions, to claim that this is a national priority. We owe a response to the patients, more and more – 67000 tick bite contaminations were recorded in 2018 compared to 45000 the previous year: prevalence is exploding. These patients are often in medical error due to diagnostic difficulties. This situation must be brought to an end, which is not likely to advance research on this disease. We therefore propose to provide INSERM with EUR 10 million to cover this sensitive subject, which clearly deserves a priority research programme. Again, the Government's lack of response would betray its lack of ambition in the fight against zoonoses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u267	Same opinion for the same reasons as in the previous amendment; I don't think I'm allowed to talk about a lack of ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u268	I'm persisting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u269	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u270	To avoid redundancy, I would like to remind you that for the past three years I have been co-chairing with Vincent Descoeur a study group on Lyme disease, of which Mrs Dubie is one of the secretaries. We make an unrelenting observation: we are desperately short of funding to continue and deepen research on this disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u271	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u272	No doubt my amendment will also receive an unfavorable opinion, but let us remember that Lyme disease continues to divide society, particularly the scientific community; As a result, patients find themselves in a state of medical error, delivered to themselves – which is completely unacceptable. With this amendment, I in turn propose, in order to strengthen research on this disease, to move EUR 10 million towards action 15 "Scientific and technological research in the life and health sciences" in programme 172. Otherwise, what do you think of creating an information mission? Since it is not possible to shift funds further as we face a serious illness and as people with it are increasingly being medically errant, I believe – I am quite simply saying – that we need to set up an information mission on Lyme disease, which is gaining ground in the territories for many reasons, including global warming. We're going to have to give a steering axis to the care of patients!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u274	I am not opposed to the creation of a parliamentary fact-finding mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u276	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u277	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u278	In the wake of Mrs Trisse and Mr Hetzel, I come back to the issue of the controversy that exists in the medical community: it is a violence that you cannot imagine and weighs on the care and accompaniment of patients. Only research will make it possible to get out of this state of affairs. The doctors, whom we auditioned several times, need it. Whether serology tests, diagnosis, treatment – whether based on antibiotics or not – or chronic forms, we need to step up and, as the Special Rapporteur said, coordinate research. If we fail to respond to this emergency, we will leave patients unanswered in the face of their suffering, and the medical community disarmed and plagued by difficult confrontations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u279	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u280	Indeed, we struggle to understand. What's this about? Mrs Dubie has just recalled that a number of our fellow citizens are caught in the heat of scientific controversy. We call for research to move forward and help find a solution. Ms. Trisse and I – our ridings are nearby – see the situation on the ground and make this call. You're the Minister of Research, Mrs. Vidal. There is a demand from society on this serious issue and, as representatives of the nation, we assume our role in trusting research but in hoping that it will progress faster on this and that subject. But your way of rejecting our calls, earlier on pediatric cancers and now on Lyme disease, is quite incomprehensible! Once again, when the national representative sends an alert message and asks that researchers be trusted by giving them the means to act, you oppose a technocratic refusal: no! Hear the call of the national representation! The fact that you refused to do so is very worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u281	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u282	I would add that these amendments are intended to provide an answer to tens or hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens who are affected by, or who think they are, a bcorliosis, given the difficulties of diagnosis. For the past three years, Nicole Trisse and I have found that no progress has been achieved and that these people remain in a therapeutic wandering. I fully endorse the proposal to set up an information mission – I have also addressed the request to the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning because the evolution of the number of cases identified is closely linked to climate change. The challenge must be met. With this debate on the research budget and because we have highlighted the lack of resources, we have the opportunity to make decisions to find solutions and to rise to the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u283	This is not Parliament's role!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u284	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u285	I, too, fully agree with Mrs Trisse's request to create this indispensable information mission – even if, like our colleagues, I would have preferred that we adopt funds for research, because that is where the solution lies. I assume, however, that we are not just a few here in the Chamber, at whose door we are struck to warn about this disease. I confess that before I was elected a member of Parliament three years ago, I didn't know about Lyme disease. It is because I have received several times various people coming to warn me that I have become aware of their distress and, sometimes, of their total deprivation as they feel that their illness and suffering are denied; It's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u286	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u287	Moreover, it is totally contradictory with the awareness of the parents of pupils that the mayors of certain communes agree to do in schools in order to alert them to the dangers posed by ticks and Lyme disease. It looks like it's only at the local level that things are moving forward! I do not even understand why there is so much debate about this: it is absolutely necessary to mobilise research funds. It is impossible to do otherwise. We cannot leave the people concerned in such suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u288	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u289	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u290	[[Christine Pires Beaune, Jeanine Dubie and MM. Vincent Descoeur and Patrick Hetzel warmly applaud]] We are looking at a chapter covering both clinical and fundamental research, pediatric cancers and Lyme disease, but I would say this: if we were to spend at least some money on clinical research on Lyme disease to better diagnose it, that would be a first step. But we're not even there. Just to do that, you have to take the question with the body!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u291	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u292	[[Christine Pires Beaune and Patrick Hetzel applaud]] This morning, Madam Minister, you rejected all the appropriations for diseases – all of them. It's inexplicable. However, these were not significant amounts. I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u293	All we have to do is review all the diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u294	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u295	I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you are calling the Government's attention to certain pathologies. You are wondering, Mr Hetzel, what the Government is doing: I will answer you very simply. In my Minister's voice, the Government is overwhelmingly supporting research to create knowledge. It is because knowledge will be created that we will one day be able to assemble it in order to find a solution to the problems that you mentioned this morning. When the situation is ripe, the appropriate tool is the priority research program, which allows for the identification of all people who have knowledge or are able to produce it quickly. That is how we proceed in each case. Yes, we are preparing priority research programmes on zoonoses and emerging diseases, but to do so, we need to be sure that we have sufficient coordination capacity to ensure that these programmes are effective; Otherwise, research will not progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u296	You always say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u297	In the area of clinical research, we need to coordinate with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which is responsible for funding hospital clinical research projects. Without this coordination between basic and clinical research, knowledge would be lost without being exploited. What applies to innovation, whether hydrogen, batteries or energy, also applies to health research: it is essential to ensure this coordination with basic research, which is not only the responsibility of the INSERM on these subjects of zoonoses or emerging diseases – the National Institute of Biological Sciences, the INSB, the Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development, the CIRAD, and the Institute for Development Research, the IRD, are also developing research projects in these fields. This is also the case with the ecological and environmental institute of the CNRS, these subjects obviously having links to the environment. What I mean is that this budget envelope alone cannot fund all research projects on these issues. To meet the challenges before us – and this disease is one – one must be able to mobilize the best of each discipline, not one organism rather than another, one laboratory rather than another, one program rather than another. We are working on this and the stimulus plan will add to the appropriations of the programming law new means that will enable a priority research programme to be launched per month over the next two to three years. That is how we will respond to the challenges you raised this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u298	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-26-O1040.u299	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2021 finance bill: following the examination of the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education"; Review of credits from the Recovery Plan. The meeting is adjourned.
