ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u2	Mr Frédéric Petit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1077, concerning the representation of French nationals outside France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u3	Since the beginning of this mandate, I have kept repeating this: the French living abroad are often at the forefront of our country's diplomatic struggles. What better tool for peaceful conflict resolution is there, since we live on a daily basis among our colleagues and friends, sometimes in the intimacy of our family, differences, oppositions, cooperation in Franco-German relations, the European area, the Balkans and the post-Brexit London, but also in the countries that have been bruised and sometimes torn apart in the Sahel, the Middle East, or in the great tensions that exist between the world models, especially in North America and Asia? We are never half-half, as we are often told; most often we are 100% both. This crisis has confirmed our wealth and availability. We have participated in the fight against this crisis through solidarity housing campaigns, solidarity funds, a voluntary presence with our embassies and consulates to help manage the French passing through, but also to overcome tensions and national drop-outs. The Franco-German relationship was shaken during this crisis, but everything that came under Franco-German citizenship held, whether in the Franco-German Youth Office, in companies, twinnings, families or circles of friends. Foreign trade advisors – 4500 volunteers engaged in all countries – have increased the time for exchanges, contacts and feedback. Our local elected officials, who have often surpassed and set aside their electoral campaign, have gathered around emergencies. We can no longer be regarded as "quiet" French as "not as French". We, today, and our children, tomorrow, are part of the national community. We are not sure, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, that this reality has really percolated throughout the consular administration. I understand the difficulty and I know the limits of the comparison between the mayor-prefect couple and the elected consular-head of post couple. I'm not talking about cocard law or protocol rank, I'm interested in substance. France's presence in the world and its specific voice in the concert of nations in the 21st century will increasingly pass through these more than 3 million citizen ambassadors and mediators. This crisis must speed up the reform that we had imagined at the beginning of the mandate rather than push it back or, worse, swindle positions out of habit or lack of ambition. For example, I was very surprised at the fact that consular officials were simply not present in the procedure for granting emergency aid to our citizens or in the procedure for granting exceptional school grants to foreign parents in our schools. It is incomprehensible to dispense with these elected representatives in these procedures which they know so well, in order to guarantee both the control of public expenditure and the fairness of such aid. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] As we began to study the bill on the postponement of municipal and consular elections, a long delay that is indeed welcome on the ground, what about the necessary reform of this representation? What place does the Assembly of French Foreigners – AFE – have in the new consultative or participatory architecture of the State? How can we rebalance the election of our six senators?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u4	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u5	Thank you very much, MP, for this vibrant tribute to the action of the French established outside France and to the action of their elected officials who, during this epidemic crisis – but as usual – gave themselves to help and accompany all our compatriots. You are right to stress also the very good momentum of solidarity and generosity of French people established outside France with regard to certain French people who have passed through their country, who have found themselves blocked on the spot by the closure of the borders. I was able to measure this against the success of the sosuntoit.fr platform, thanks to which more than 6000 accommodation proposals were made to our compatriots blocked abroad by the French established outside France. Since taking up my duties alongside Jean-Yves Le Drian, I have been committed to strengthening the role and missions of consular advisers, some of whom are members of the AFE. It was with joy that I finally saw a Copernician revolution culminating, thanks to the law on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action: it was now an elected official who presided over the consular council when, for decades, it was the head of the post or a member of the administration who held that office. This marks the recognition of the important role that elected officials play. In addition, the law now affirms the right to training for these elected officials as well as for local elected officials in the national territory, which is a welcome development. In order for the work of the AFE to be better taken into account, I also wanted to set up the Permanent Committee of French Foreigners, in which you sit as a parliamentarian. The AFE office meets regularly with parliamentarians and the Government, allowing us to follow up on the work produced within this body. You are opening up other projects on which you will surely have to continue to move. As I said last Friday when we were discussing an amendment by Mr El Guerrab, that I am determined to move forward with you to improve the representativeness and powers of these elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u6	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to put his question, No. 1087, concerning the network of French schools abroad – EFE.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u7	Our EFE network – with 522 registered schools in 139 countries and 370,000 students – is not immune to the economic consequences of the health crisis. Since the beginning of the confinement, many families have found themselves in great difficulty and they have multiplied the number of petitions and letters addressed to various French and foreign authorities. They primarily cover tuition fees, which are considered out of proportion to the distance "service" provided by teachers. This problem raises the question of the very existence of the network, since the institutions are a mixture of private and public: private, because you have to pay very much to educate your children; This is the school of the Republic, the continuity of the public service of French education abroad. On average, families spend around 5000 euros a year. While many of these families suffer heavily from the effects of the economic crisis without benefiting from the same economic support plans as in France and some French companies have decided to repatriate their staff, schools will be permanently weakened by the crisis. Some could even definitely close their doors this summer. This would obviously be a major catastrophe for the cultural and educational influence of France as well as for our diplomacy of influence, at a time when international competition in this field is exacerbating. This network is unique in the world, and many countries are. While it is efficient and effective, it must adapt to the context of crisis and reinvent itself to create the conditions necessary for the survival of our model. We need to think about the essential reform of the network and better take into account the expectations of the parents of students. I say it calmly, Secretary of State: we must restore trust between families and our schools around the world. What will be the Government's method of achieving this? Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take this opportunity to bounce back on our discussions last night with regard to the organization of the baccalaureate exams for French schools abroad out of contract. In France, students in out-of-contract schools can pass the baccalaureate in continuous supervision, but this is not the case for those studying in out-of-contract schools abroad. The latter regard the situation as unfair and unequal. This is a paradox because these schools make our values radiate throughout the world, and one of our cardinal values is precisely equality. Therefore, these schools do not consider themselves to be treated as they should be. What do you think, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u8	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u9	Mr M'jid El Guerrab, this network is a jewel: it allows our compatriots established outside France to attend their children in a French-language system; It is an instrument of influence because two thirds of the students are foreigners, who can thus tutor universalism to French, permeate our values and our methodologies. However, in the face of increasing competition from other models, it is important to assert ours. Jean-Yves Le Drian and I are fully aware that this epidemic crisis is a major shock for these 522 institutions. On 30 April, together with Gérald Darmanin, we announced a massive plan for the benefit of our compatriots living outside France. This plan includes a health component, a social component and an education and EFE network component. The Agence France Trésor has already made an advance of EUR 100 million to the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger – AEFE – which will allow the latter to put in place a support mechanism for all schools, I insist, regardless of their status. This meets a strong demand. By the way, I would point out that the third amending finance bill for 2020, which will be presented tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, will also include fresh budget appropriations as well as the mobilization of the precautionary reserve. Money ringing and stumbling will therefore come in support of this plan. Some EUR 50 million will be allocated to support families in order to increase the amount of scholarships for pupils already eligible or to grant them to others whose parents did not request them but whose situation has changed. In fact, we have changed the award criteria since we will take into account the revenues of 2020 and not those of year n-1. We want to pay attention to families, French or foreign, using adapted devices. It is by helping these families that we will help the institutions and ensure the survival of the network. You ask me about students who traditionally pass the bachelor's degree as a free candidate because they are schooled outside EFE, but in institutions that follow our programs. I am working hard on this issue that I have reported to Jean-Michel Blanquer. I do not yet have a guarantee of success with regard to the arrangements that we must find, but I have heard the distress and am working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u10	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u11	Mr Joël Aviragnet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1081, concerning the revival of the tourism sector in the run-up to the summer season.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u12	With the health crisis, the tourism sector has suffered enormous economic losses. In the first half of 2020, tourism professionals suffered an extraordinary loss of profits due to containment, the closure of European and intra-European borders, the closure of cafes, restaurants and hotels. A new danger is emerging in the second half of 2020: a slow recovery due to the restrictions still in place for health reasons and the usual loss of consumers. With the reopening of European and intra-European borders still blurred, it seems reasonable to me that the Government should consider aid to the tourism sector through a policy of support for demand. It seems to me essential to set up tourist checks for all French people based on their income, which would allow modest families to register their children in holiday camps, to take a few days off to discover a French department or region, to see the Mediterranean, the Atlantic or, of course, the Pyrenees. This state aid would allow them to stay, do activities or visit museums, which would be a significant boost for this job-creating economic sector. I also endorse the proposal by the President of the Occitanie region, Carole Delga, to ensure free motorway tolls during the months of July and August 2020 in order to encourage the movement of the French in the national territory and, consequently, to support the tourism sector. As we know, the question of the cost of travel is a considerable obstacle for the tourist sector, which is now under threat. Allowing the French to travel freely throughout the territory – after confinement, one can understand how much they would like it! – would be an essential aid for the tourism sector in the delicate period ahead. Moreover, and for the record, the motorway companies distributed €3 billion of dividends to shareholders in 2019 and recorded a turnover of more than 10 billion in 2019. It therefore seems reasonable to ask them to participate in the national recovery effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u13	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u14	Indeed, Mr Aviragnet, tricolor tourism has been hit hard by the epidemic crisis. One month's confinement means 10 to 15 billion less revenue for the sector. That is why the President of the Republic has made tourism a national priority. Far from being a mere slogan, this priority translates into strong actions and concrete measures. On 14 May, for example, a €18 billion plan was announced at the Interministerial Committee on Tourism: €9 billion in direct aid – maintenance of partial activity, extension of the solidarity fund – and €9 billion in financing and investment to prepare tomorrow's tourism, a more sustainable and digital tourism. With regard to the summer season, we are working hard with the territories, especially with the regions. If I called for a "red white blue" summer, it is precisely to encourage the French to rediscover our territory. We can go around the world by going around France, that's what's great in our country! With Atout France, we launched the campaign "This summer, I visit France". As for demand support, several regions are working on holiday vouchers. You mentioned the initiative of the Occitanie region, but the New Aquitaine regions – we are currently working with its president, Alain Rousset –, Grand Est and Sud are also thinking about measures to support the tourism sector. It is my hope that within a few days I will be able to announce a mechanism to accompany the State which will enable the various initiatives of the territories to be extended even more. As far as foreign tourists are concerned, I say welcome to France! The question of borders is clear: we want to remove obstacles to movement in Europe from 15 June and to welcome international customers to our country at the beginning of July. However, we know that the recovery will be very gradual. Tourism professionals should therefore be accompanied for the duration of the year until the end of the year. That is the whole meaning of the measures we have taken – maintaining the partial activity and extending the solidarity fund – that will give them visibility over time. As far as transport is concerned, promotional tariffs are currently being offered to the French, in particular by SNCF. I would also like to point out that the annual leave ticket paid in vouchers allows for a 50% reduction from the normal rate. Other ad hoc arrangements have also been put in place, including banknotes of less than EUR 49. On the highways, let me finish with Didier Barbelivien and this 1980s tube: "Leave the highway"! It is time to take back our good departmental and national roads to rediscover the jewels of France. As for relations with dealers, my colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebari, Secretary of State for Transport, will certainly be in a better position to provide you with an answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u15	[[Smile]] You have a few seconds left, Mr Aviragnet, if you want to tell Mr. Secretary of State that we already have no airports and no stations: if, in addition, we are removed from the motorways! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u16	I welcome the tourism support plan that has been decided, but you have not answered my question on motorways, Mr Secretary of State. As far as departmental roads are concerned, I suspect you don't take them a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u17	Oh, yes, I'm a great rider!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u18	To reach the Mediterranean from Toulouse via the departmental roads, you must leave the day before to arrive the next day!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u19	We must take the time to discover France...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u20	Like the state, motorways must now make an effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u21	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 1058, on the crisis in the print press.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u22	Mr Minister of Culture, the crisis in the print press is severe and affects all the players in the sector. The Government must act: freedom and pluralism of the press are essential to our democracy; There can be no genuine freedom or pluralism if the newspapers are not distributed throughout the country. But Presstalis is weakened and stripped of the channels that provide the level 2 distribution: these were purely and simply liquidated on 15 May, leaving more than 500 employees on the tile and kiosquiers without newspapers – in particular national newspapers – in entire territories, while others are busy with DIY solutions. This situation is untenable. It does not guarantee freedom and pluralism and adds to the difficulties of a sector already in crisis prior to the virus's outbreak and particularly affected by containment. Yet the different actors are fighting, inventing and looking for new models. But mutualization, which was a valuable asset, is agonizing because of disputes over the management of financial flows, decisions on the functioning of competition and the temptation of dumping. It is time for the state to become a sustainable player in order to help ensure the general interest. It is a matter of health for the Republic. It is urgent to reject the shift of information in the field of a market without rules and without horizons. On the contrary, action must be taken to safeguard an ecosystem that is mutualised and solidarity essential at all levels: economic, ecological, social and democratic. The proposal of a cooperative society of collective interest for the management of Level 2 is on the table. What follow-up are you planning on giving him? What emergency solutions are you planning? For several weeks now, several French territories have been deprived of this indispensable service. More generally, how will you support the players in the sector, from publishers to newspaper merchants, who are all experiencing difficulties? With regard to publishers, a number of them have been forced to take drastic measures that undermine their ability to produce information on a daily basis. Their difficulties – but not only – have placed newspaper merchants in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u23	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u24	You are right, Mr Dharréville, the press is essential to our democracy; its pluralism and independence are essential. For years, however, his situation has been very difficult. From the beginning of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic mobilized to accompany the press in its transformation and to promote the emergence of a new economic model, always guaranteeing its independence and pluralism. Since I was Minister of Culture, I have also been very active in the press. While guaranteeing its principles, the Government has amended the Act on the Status of Grouping and Distribution Enterprises for Periodical Journals and Publications, known as the Bichet Act, to adapt it to current realities and to provide new resources to the Electronic Communications, Post and Press Distribution Regulatory Authority, ARCEP, and to newspaper dealers, whose management rules have been relaxed. We have also passed a directive at European level creating a similar copyright right for publishers and news agencies, which we have transposed into French law. France is the first country to transpose this neighbouring right to copyright and we are currently at the side of publishers who are negotiating with Google so that the platform will pay for this neighbouring right. In addition, as part of the preparation of an ambitious pipeline plan, we accompany the press in its digital and ecological transformation. We are also working on the accompaniment and transformation of Presstalis, who, as you have pointed out, are in a critical situation. Its level 1 activities are in judicial reform and its level 2 activities – that of depositaries – are in judicial liquidation. Some offers are indeed on the table. The commercial court will take the necessary decisions to allow the continuation of Level 2 activities by limiting the social consequences, which unfortunately will be inevitable. In any case, we pay particular attention to the development of Level 2. In addition, we financially support the distribution of the print media, as we have already mobilized more than 70 million to ensure that the activity is maintained during confinement. In this way, we have ensured that newspaper merchants can receive the money that Presstalis owes to them. Finally, we have provided 80 million to accompany the offer to take over level 1 of the daily distribution cooperative. As for the major disruptions that persist in the Marseilles and Lyons regions, I must meet with representatives of newspaper merchants this afternoon to examine what means could be made available to them to ensure the continuation of their service. We also work with publishers, especially the smaller ones, to help them through the crisis. The financial difficulties of Presstalis are not without consequences for them since some of their debts are likely to disappear as a result of the legal reorganization of the society. The Government is at the side of the industry, whether it be publishers or distributors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u25	Mr Stéphane Buchou, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1060, concerning the donations of DVDs and CDs to libraries and media libraries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u26	First of all, let me pay tribute to the one who, at the beginning of the year, alerted me to the subject that concerns me today. Jacques Oudin, senator of the Vendée from 1986 to 2004, adviser general for almost forty years, elected local of his beautiful island of Noirmoutier from 1977 to 2014, has worked throughout his career in the service of his fellow citizens. He died brutally on March 21st of the covid-19. Mr Minister of Culture, my question concerns the extreme difficulty, if not the impossibility, for public libraries and media libraries to accept donations of DVDs or CDs from individuals. Limitations are imposed on their use by laws that protect the copyrights of composers and performers, which everyone understands. However, opening up such a possibility would be an interesting answer in different ways. In particular, it would make it possible to enrich, without cost, the funds of the inter-municipal media libraries, particularly rural ones, whose resources are limited. Donations come from people of a certain age, without succession or motivated by a disinterested gesture towards their community and its inhabitants. It is for them a real heartbreak to have to get rid of the waste shop of DVDs or CDs of artistic works that have accompanied their lives. In a way, this gesture evokes the sinister self-defeating that has gleamed history. At a time when sustainable development and environmental protection are becoming categorical imperatives, it runs counter to current developments: the limitation of plastic waste, the ban on programmed obsolescence, the preference given to repairable products, and the enhancement of the circular economy. Separateing DVDs and CDs in good condition is like a huge hardware mess. Minister, could we not imagine a simple and inexpensive mechanism for communities that, while preserving copyrights, would allow the media libraries to enrich their funds and citizens to comply with the new consumer standards against waste?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u27	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u28	You are asking, Mr Buchou, a very good question, which rightly concerns libraries and media libraries. The use of works in libraries is generally subject to the application of copyright. The only exception is the book loan, since the Law of 18 June 2003 on remuneration for library lending and strengthening the social protection of authors has created a legal licensing scheme that guarantees libraries the ability to lend books. Thus, the authors of books can no longer exercise their exclusive right to authorize or prohibit the loan of their work, in return for a right to remuneration managed collectively by the Société française des intéres des auteurs de l'écrit, the SOFIA. The public loan to consult CDs and DVDs in a library is the exclusive right of the author. When a library receives these materials as donations, it must therefore acquire the collective rights of use in order to be able to offer them to the public by approaching directly the rights holders or collective management bodies where this is possible. The way in which right holders understand the activity of libraries may differ from one sector of creation to another. The rightholders in the music sector do not claim any remuneration for the public loan of CDs, except where music is heard in the library, in which case the Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers, SACEM, receives a fee for the right of representation. This is different in the audiovisual sector: public lending and on-site consultation of DVDs are the subject of a proven contractual arrangement involving well-identified specialist suppliers, who negotiate with publishers, producers and distributors – the process is complex! – rights attached to the medium and covering collective uses related to the activities of libraries. The DVDs given by private individuals are part of the business reserved for private use in the family circle. We work with rightholders to facilitate donations through a system equivalent to that applicable to CDs, but it is more difficult to achieve this with respect to DVDs, for which rights holders are more numerous. Currently, it is up to the donee library to negotiate individually with these owners the rights of use of copies of interest to them. However, this contractual approach can be very tedious when many DVDs are involved, as you have pointed out. The donations of the families you mentioned would enrich the collections of libraries and media libraries, but we must ensure that the process respects the rights of the authors and of the entire industry. Such a balance is always difficult to find. I hope to be able to give you some good news about this in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u29	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u30	Indeed, that families want to get rid of their CDs and DVDs while the media libraries do not have the solutions or the human and technical resources to accept them creates a complex situation. I, too, hope for very good news in a few weeks or months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u31	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1059, concerning educational establishments in the municipality of Givors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u32	Mr Minister of National Education and Youth, the municipality of Givors, the centre of gravity of my constituency located in the south of the Lyon metropolis, is part of the academy of Lyon, that of France where the results are the least good within the priority education networks, as explained to me by its rector at the beginning of the year. My team and I interact regularly with parents of students, teachers and school officials. In the light of these exchanges, I would like to alert you to the growing difficulties faced by schools, colleges and high schools in Givors: lack of staff, decrease in the number of hours, exhaustion of teachers, anger of the parents of pupils. They are largely related to the inadequacy of the priority education zoning and the means in relation to the number of pupils received and the socio-economic problems of the families. Thus, among the two colleges of the commune, Lucie-Aubrac College, classified as a priority education network, has for several years presented all the indicators justifying the classification REP +, it has still not been assigned to it. As for the Collège Paul-Vallon, it does not belong to either of these two categories on the grounds that it welcomes students from socially less disadvantaged villages, although others of its students, in large numbers, are from the priority districts of the city's politics. Its non-classification has the collateral effect of severely penalising elementary schools located in these neighbourhoods, which do not benefit, for example, from the systematic duplication of the classes of CP and CE1. With regard to the Aragon-Picasso High School, it is worrying that its hourly allocation for the September 2020 school year is expected to be insufficient, as this could lead to the formation of classes whose number would exceed the threshold of thirty-five pupils in second. In this context, and in view of the crisis we have just experienced, what additional resources can be mobilised for the settlements in the municipality?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u33	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u34	Of course, my ministry ensures the fairness of the first and second levels of public school education, which it distributes among the academies. The analysis of means takes into account, inter alia, the weight of the academy, the demographics of pupils and geographical and social disparities. During the preparation of the map, the Ministry provided the Lyon Academy with 46 priority education networks – REP – including 21 strengthened priority education networks – REP+. The College Classification dates back to the 2015 academic year and has not been changed since then, except to include new colleges that are directly classified as Priority Education. Lucie-Aubrac College is located there as a school success network – RRS – and Paul-Vallon College is not a priority education. Indeed, the selected indicators did not allow the first to be classified in REP + or the second to be classified in REP at the beginning of 2014. I am fully aware of the problems posed by these threshold effects. In fact, beyond the issue of the classification in REP, the allocation of academic resources is based on a principle of social and territorial equity, according to which the Rhone Academy has maintained its commitment to support schools where pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds are accommodated. This applies to the institutions mentioned: Lucie-Aubrac College benefits from equivalent resources to other REP + Colleges of the Academy despite its REP ranking, while Paul Vallon College has obtained additional resources in the same way as other REP ranked Colleges. As for the Aragon-Picasso high school, he obtained about 30 hours in addition to the statutory allocation. I hoped that the revision of the priority education map would be postponed until the beginning of 2021 in order to take the time to consult all stakeholders and to develop a mechanism that would make our action more flexible and more appropriate to the specific problems of each territory. We need to develop territorial differentiation. On the basis of the recommendations of the report of the mission territories and success, says Mathiot-Azema report, I would like to give more room for manoeuvre to the academic services to choose the most relevant levers for this, whether they are educational means, equal opportunities schemes or school life staff. In addition, beyond the designation of REP and REP+ alone, the academic authorities may gradually assign the means according to the socio-economic and educational characteristics of schools and schools. Thus, the progressive allocation of resources in the Lyon Academy takes up part of the criteria used for the priority education classification in 2015, through the index of social difficulty and territoriality: it is calculated in proportion to this index and to the numbers received by each institution. As such, the two colleges in the city of Givors are provided with additional resources, and the progressive allowance also benefits the high school in the light of these indicators. Finally, with regard to primary school education in the public sector, the number of posts per 100 pupils – P/E rate – in the Rhône department increased between the start of 2015 and the start of 2019, from 5 to 5.4. This improvement will continue. Thus, at the next school year, the level of supervision is expected to continue to rise with additional employment, while the number of students planned is stable. Specifically in the city of Givors, five jobs will be created, including two at Picard-Lieuthaud Elementary School, one at Joliot-Curie Elementary School and two at Freydière-Gare Elementary School. The Académie de Lyon benefits from the creation of 97 full-time teaching equivalents in the first level of public education and 107 in the second level for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u35	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to put her question, No. 1063, on health units in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u36	The covid-19 epidemic has forced us to review our hygiene measures in order to slow down the spread of the virus and even stop it. The procedures introduced in schools for deconfining have revealed shortcomings and malfunctions in particular in the health units. Through visits to my constituency and in the light of surveys I conducted to assess the difficulties and issues raised by these new provisions, I have seen the major problem of sanitation and water points in many aging schools. The epidemic thus revealed that many basic hygiene measures were not the norm in our country. Many sanitary blocks are in a state of shame: water points, taps, insufficient toilets, poor soap or disinfectant supply, delicate management of the passage to the toilet or sink. These problems, which are not recent, are compounded by the lack of privacy due to unseparated toilets or doors that do not close, the remoteness of sanitary blocks from classrooms, the random supply of toilet paper. Teachers, parents and students have been increasing alerts for years. It is well known that many children do not go to the bathroom during school hours because of the outdated facilities. In the face of new health challenges, how can we do prevention and teach children the right things when infrastructure is not there? Can an ambitious plan be made to upgrade the sanitary facilities of our elementary and secondary schools? What partnership can one imagine with the different local and regional authorities, which are competent in this field?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u37	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u38	Defective hygiene in school sanitation, both in the first and second degree, is a major problem. I have had an opportunity on many occasions to speak about him, even before the crisis of the covid-19. All that you have described is unfortunately in line with reality, and we have a lot to catch up on. Difficulties such as inadequate sanitation, deterioration, dirt and insecurity have been noted in a high proportion of schools and schools. They poison the students' daily lives, as you said very well. In addition, recurrent pathologies are reported, especially among young girls, related to the non-use of school toilets, including a high number of urinary infections. This is corroborated by the thesis presented in June 2013 by Dr.Bénédicte Hoarau, who investigated 800 students in three colleges: one third of the students surveyed give up going to the toilet because of this situation. The management of these difficulties, which are a matter of promoting health and limiting the spread of viruses, concerns all actors in the educational community and involves close cooperation with local and regional authorities. For the Ministry of National Education and Youth, providing the entire educational community with a learning-friendly living environment has always been a priority. Hygiene, however, is an essential element for the well-being of students and, therefore, for their success in school. The problem of health facilities is at the crossroads of the issues of citizenship, health and school life with regard to the educational and educational aspects. According to a health and citizenship education approach, educational and educational projects therefore tend to address the conditions of access to, use of, safety, hygiene and privacy for those who use them. A dedicated guide, available online on the Eduscol portal, provides a set of references, advice and tools for action. Finally, in the context of the control of the covid -19 pandemic, access to a point of water, in addition to the supply of hydro-alcoholic gel, is essential in the reinforced respect of the gestures of barrier: the protocol to be applied by the entire educational community allows the staggering of the passage of students to the toilets in order to respect the distances and to avoid over-surgence during breaks. While we need to make progress in this area, the crisis of the Covid-19 creates a salutary awareness. I confirm that the plan to support local authorities implemented by the State in the wake of the health crisis thus provides funding solutions for the renovation of health facilities in schools, in particular thanks to the abundance of EUR 1 billion in the local investment support allocation, the DSIL. I will pay particular attention to this. I am also acting at European level to ensure that the recovery plan includes what I called a Marshall school building plan, to support local authorities in an eco-friendly renovation of all buildings. This would obviously concern health care, because ecology is also at stake, as well as everyday well-being.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u39	I call Mrs Auconia to speak on her question, No. 1082, on the integration and probation services of prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u40	The custody of the seals, the penitentiaries of insertion and probation, the SPIPs, play an essential role in accompaniment of prisoners serving their sentences, both in an open and in a closed environment. In order to deal with the risk of spreading covid-19 within prisons, you have made significant decisions to reduce the prison population, reducing the occupancy rate of prisons to 97 per cent. In addition, the justice reform that came into force on 24 March 2020 includes numerous measures to reduce short sentences and to promote alternatives to imprisonment. These interesting measures will require support and supervision by specialized agents. However, IPPS officers show their sense of abandonment in the face of the very strong constraints placed on them. The increase in the number of convicted persons and overcrowding in prisons pose major problems of supervision. You know this for coming to Indre-et-Loire to visit the Towers prison, whose occupancy rate was 200% before the health crisis. The service has 19.4 full-time equivalents for 1743 follow-up staff, i.e. one staff member per 90 users. Thank you for making the Indre-et-Loire SPIP a pilot service under the Justice Programming and Reform Act. The so-called Pradieu Act to act against domestic violence was intended, inter alia, to introduce removal measures through the use of electronic bracelets. This measure, which is essential to combat violence against women, will also increase the number of people monitored by SPIPs. In addition, SPIP officers are particularly concerned about the conditions for the implementation of the Public Service Transformation Act, as it will affect their deployments, training and careers. The missions of the SPIPs are essential for a better orientation of the sentence routes of the convicted, daily accompaniment which is also a major mechanism for the protection of the victims; They are also central to ensuring the best conditions for reintegration and, in doing so, to combat prison overcrowding. Their commitment deserves resources commensurate with the Government's ambitions to support these agents in their actions. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, what concrete commitments will be made in the wake of this crisis, which has changed the parameters, to accompany the SPIPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u41	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u42	Madam Member, I fully agree with you that the prison services for insertion and probation are one of the essential links both to the success of the law of reform of the justice system, but also, more fundamentally, to the policies of prevention of recidivism and of prison regulation. In the period 2018-2020, and as part of the Justice Reform Act, the Government committed to create 1,500 additional jobs in the integration and probation prison services, including 870 integration and probation prison advisers – CPIP. These personnel will be divided into the following categories: locally monitored persons under the control of the judiciary, as well as criminal and prison policy issues. For example, 259 counsellors have already been recruited and will take office in September 2020 for some of them and in September 2021 for others – since two years ago of training. In the Indre-et-Loire SPIP, an additional post will be created in September 2020, in addition to the 23 existing posts. In addition, at the national level, among the 1500 jobs I have just mentioned, 144 administrative officers, 135 social workers and 106 supervisors in charge of electronic monitoring, as well as cultural coordinators and psychologists, will develop the multi-disciplinary teams of SPIPs. As a result, the operating resources of SPIPs are expected to increase to EUR 42.6 million in 2022, a forecast increase of 17%. As part of the fight against domestic violence, the law of 28 December 2019 that you mentioned created the anti-approximation bracelet, but this device is not intended to generate an additional workload for SPIPs since there will be telemonitoring and tele-assistance hubs specifically responsible for the electronic monitoring of the device. Finally, the reorganization of the central services of the Directorate of the Prison Service has recently created a sub-directorate of integration and probation, which is responsible for supporting and accompanying the SPIPs. It is therefore a comprehensive policy that is being implemented and in which the CPIPs and all SPIPs, far from being abandoned, are an essential mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u43	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u44	The time is running out, Mrs. Auconia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u45	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Travert, to put his question, No 1061, on the impact of the health crisis on the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u46	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I am not going to tell you that the major sectors are making the daily news of your ministry. However, our territory is meshed by other production lines which make it both rich and attractive: this is the case of the cider sector, which is very present in the Great West and of which I recall that it is rooted in the territories and that it constitutes a founding element of the terroirs and local economies. She was struck by the crisis of the covid-19 as she began a new dynamic expected by her actors. This health crisis has highlighted several difficulties: stock management among processors after a collapse of demand, due first to the administrative closure of the HRD sector – out-of-home catering – and then to significant declines in large-scale sales; the second difficulty is due to the exceptional harvest which is taking place in September because, with a large stock of finished products and the impossibility for the industry to produce without being relieved of it, the producers are legitimately worried about the sustainability of their activity. I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, what support measures are envisaged specifically for the dairy sector, in addition to those provided for in the general framework and for which you have worked a great deal: I am thinking of market liberalisation measures, distillation, specific tax and social provisions. In order to effectively define such support measures, it is crucial to open a dialogue with the players in the sector. I know you did, but I want a schedule for future meetings. This sector carries strong ambitions and demands to be better recognized within the specialized "wine and cider" council of FranceAgriMer, through a dedicated working group to accompany and make the cidric industry more attractive. Collective communication is also an important investment, but the crisis of the covid-19 has a heavy impact on the planned promotional campaigns. We have been able to observe a change in the consumption behaviour of our citizens, many of them favouring the consumption of local products, and many initiatives have been taken at your initiative, in our territories, to encourage them to do so. A number of local authorities have launched communication campaigns to this end. In this context, I propose that you adapt this communication strategy by encouraging even more local consumption and, in particular, highlighting the dairy sector, as it is facing great difficulties. Cider products perpetuate a tradition, know-how, an image of the quality of our terroirs and relate to a history, that of women and men who share a passion for the cultivation and production of cider apples. Whether they are farmers, artisans, small or large companies or cooperatives, they also make our agriculture live on a daily basis and expect support from us. I know the complexity of the task you have to undertake, and I thank you for the answers you will be able to give them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u47	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u48	Dear Stéphane Travert, there are no small sectors: there are only sectors. And I attach as much importance to the cider sector as to the beef and milk sector and to all the others – I will not mention them all, because those I might forget would be mad at me. You have rightly recalled that it is an important economic, social and territorial sector, but also, moreover, cultural in view of its history and its places of consumption – let us think in particular of Normandy, the interceltic festival of Lorient or small spaces such as creperies. I have already met twice the representatives of the cider sector since the beginning of the crisis, yesterday afternoon again with those of the beer and horticultural sectors, and from here I will receive those of the potato sector. There are no large and small sectors: they all have to be treated at the same level. As you said yourself: the cider industry has benefited from all the cross-cutting measures put in place by the Government and which you obviously supported: the solidarity fund and the various guarantees on which I will not return. I am working a lot with the representatives of this sector, the collateral victim of the decision to close the cafés-hotels-restaurants as a matter of urgency, which has reduced its outlets all the more. People, during confinement, consumed less cider. That is why I want to see specific measures taken, starting with the exemption of employers' social security contributions: I am discussing this with Gérald Darmanin, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, with a view to the third PLFR, which your Assembly will be considering in a few days' time. This is a very important measure that I am committed to. In addition, yesterday I announced the release of an envelope of €5 million to finance distillation to the tune of €50 per hectolitre, knowing that the new harvest will indeed come and that the existing stocks of apples cannot be preserved. As far as communication is concerned, I am committed to ensuring that the Ministry, through FranceAgriMer, finances an information and promotion campaign, as it did for the fisheries sector and for the horticultural sector – the latter, carried out just before Mother's Day, worked very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u49	Mr Sebastien Leclerc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 1067, on measures to support the cider sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u50	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, the crisis of the covid -19 will have struck all parts of our economy and, week after week, the Government announces specific arrangements for the various sectors – automobiles, industry, wine-growing, and an emergency plan for the aeronautics sector – but there are still sectors that have asked you and are waiting for an answer, including the cider sector, which has just been mentioned. It is important in the Pays d'Auge, more widely in Normandy and the Great West, with outlets without customers, closed restaurants and exports in free fall. With deconfinity, the activity starts again timidly, but it will take time before returning to a normal rate of product flow; the cellars accumulate the stocks, which will cause multiple problems of an economic nature, the companies becoming deficit, and of a logistical nature: how to manage the next harvest of apples when the previous one has passed two or three times less than usual? A support plan for the cider sector is therefore needed. Several tools are at your disposal: exemptions from social security contributions for both employees and employers, financing the withdrawal of part of the 2020 apple harvest from the market, as required by the inter-occupation. How does the state position itself in relation to its request? Tax measures can also be taken. I would remind you that, at present, a calvado producer pays annual fees based on the increase in the value of his stock, so he has to pay without even having sold a single bottle. Could we not consider taxing 2020 production only at the time of sale, in order to allow harvesters to distill more this year and thus not lose fruit?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u51	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u52	Mr President, you, like Mr Travert, know this region and this sector well, and I repeat that the Government has not remained inactive. To supplement my previous answer, I would like to point out that the best recovery is through consumption – with moderation, of course, on an individual basis. From the moment the deconfinition has been decided, things will progress, and we all hope that there will be, as soon as possible, more restaurants and bars completely open. That people can consume again is the best condition for recovery. A communication and promotion campaign, I was working with the representatives of the industry yesterday, would be important in this respect to remind them of the qualities of the drink we are talking about. The cider industry is suffering a double penalty: that linked to the consequences of the closure of the CHR and that linked to the reduction, this year, of summer cultural events, such as festivals. To give you a very clear answer on taxes, I would like to inform you that the Government is not in favour of amending the tax law in this area. It is true that producers have made relatively little use of the partial unemployment scheme, which is widely developed by the Government, since labour is needed in orchards, but we are working, as I said, on an exemption from charges and EUR 5 million of aid is provided for distillation. It is very important that the cider industry can continue to live, given its importance and cultural dimension. It must therefore be better recognized. The crisis of the covid-19 also had an impact on agrotourism, which had to stop. The de-confinination must make it possible to revive it, also for the benefit of the cidric industry. So be assured, honourable Member, that my ministry is fully mobilized to help specifically the cider sector, too. I don't forget it, even if it's geographically circumscribed. The near absence of exports to third countries is also a problem: we need to relaunch this machine. Finally, we are working at European level, together with a few other countries, to ensure that inter-occupation is taken into account in the same way as the wine and spirits sector. This would allow Europe to intervene to help the cider sector, which it cannot do at present. In any case, the Government is mobilized to assist the entire sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u53	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u54	My request was not to exempt professionals from all taxes, but only those relating to calvados, which is part of our heritage in the same way as cider and may be even more suffering in the future. That's why I wanted you to study my proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u55	We'll think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u56	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to put his question, No. 1083, on the impact of the health crisis on the activities of the Camargue manades.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u57	Do you know the Camargue, minister? If this is not the case, I strongly encourage you to discover it. This vast and magnificent territory, embraced by the Rhone delta and its surroundings, lives and vibrates at the rhythm of its taurine traditions. This land is a precious space, with remarkable biodiversity, and it attracts people from all over the world. It has an invaluable but fragile heritage, shaped and preserved by the sweat and blood of women and men, gardians and bull and horse breeders – manadiers, as they are called – whose know-how is recognized across borders. Today, manadiers, like others, are in turmoil because of the health crisis. The survival of their company has become a real challenge for the conservation of an exceptional ecosystem, of a small part of France which constitutes a real jewel of humanity. Let me be clear: we are not talking here about the rearing of beef or horsemeat intended primarily for consumption. We are talking about a world, that of the bouvine, which is part of a history of centuries, a cultural identity that makes everyone proud, a cradle of ancestral traditions: aprivados, encirros, votive festivals and Camargua races. All this contributes to the social bond of an entire people and makes the local economy live. All this cannot exist without the manadies. If I were to quote the poet Frédéric Mistral, I would say that: "This is the sign of family,/ This is the sacrament that unites the son with the forefathers. / Man on the ground! This is the thread / which holds the nest in the row. » In the Camargue, at a time when we are talking, and with all the uncertainties that still exist, the 116 existing manades could have a dry loss of 3 million euros. It is therefore essential that the State intervene quickly to help our manades and traditions. As I indicated by mail, I believe it is essential to set up an emergency aid fund for operating costs and to freeze structural charges. My question is simple, minister: what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u58	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u59	Sitting on the bench of the Government alongside Secretary of State Laurent Nunez, who knows this region particularly well, I must say that we are glad that you invited us, with your accent, to evoke Frédéric Mistral, the votive traditions, the Camargua races or the aprivados: this reminds us of Arles, the Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer, and all this wonderful culture. If the Camargue is a fantastic tourist destination and is a magnificent postcard, it cannot be limited to this image. When our fellow citizens talk about this territory, they often do it with a smile and talk about going on holiday – so much the better. But in the Camargue there are people who work hard, daily, in a whole series of fields. I am thinking, for example, of the professionals in the rice sector, who are doing a difficult and remarkable job in this sector, and who are also making significant progress. You specifically referred to the manadiers, which are a specific feature of your region, which I particularly appreciate and which Laurent Nunez and I know for many reasons. We have studied their situation with great interest. As I pointed out to Stéphane Travert and MP Leclerc, there are no big or small lines: the Government takes care of everything at the same time, because it is important not to leave anyone at the edge of the road after an absolutely dramatic crisis. This crisis has resulted in the complete cessation of all demonstrations and public gatherings. The manadiers were directly affected. We have taken immediate action for all agricultural and livestock enterprises, regardless of their field of activity. The manadiers are thus affected by all the cross-cutting measures deployed by the Government, be they the solidarity fund, State-guaranteed cash loans or the postponement of tax deadlines. We are also working to ensure that measures for agricultural holdings are detailed by the MSA – the Mutuality of Agricultural Social Interest – in particular with regard to the levying of contributions. We will make progress in this area. As I have already indicated to many of you who have asked me in writing – for example, President Françoise Dumas has contacted me several times, including this weekend – I would like us to conduct an individual examination of the situation of the manades, because it is important that they continue to live. For the time being, there are no more parties, rallies or races, but there are animals, breeders and enthusiasts. We don't forget them. I also know that the regional councils provide specific support for manades. In particular, I met with Renaud Muselier, President of the Regional Council of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, who worked extensively on this issue, as did the other regions concerned. However, the State will be present to ensure the sustainability of this culture, tradition and herding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u60	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u61	You seem to have grasped the stakes of my request. You know the territory and you have understood that we are talking about a history, a culture, traditions, in short, an identity to which the people of Camargue – this "old proud and free people", as Frédéric Mistral wrote – is extremely attached. However, the answer you are making is not such as to satisfy me fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u62	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u63	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No. 1054, on razed cuts in the forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u64	Whether it is in the Morvan, on the Millevaches plateau, in the Landes de Gascogne or in the forest of Mormal, foresters, citizens and associations stand up against the practice of shaved cups. These release part of the carbon stored in the soil, reduce soil, weaken soil and prevent its proper regeneration. They also destroy the habitats of mammals, birds or insects. The territories I have referred to refer to sites classified as regional nature parks, whose natural heritage is supposed to be protected and valued. However, the model combining monoculture, razed cuts and plantations is spreading there without hindrance: in the state of regulation, even regional nature parks have no say. In the Morvan, where I was a few months ago, 50% of the hardwood forests have already been replaced by monospecific plantations of softwood. French forests are not mere deposits of wood. They are, among other things, essential for combating global warming and ensuring water filtration. We must stop converting diversified hardwood forests into monocultures of softwood, exclusively for industry and more vulnerable to extreme events such as fires, storms or insect proliferation. The scolyte epidemic that ravages the French forests again prompts us to change our model. Other countries have done so: Switzerland banned shavings in 1876. In Germany, all Länder have passed legislation restricting the maximum area of cuts. In Austria, any cut of more than 2 hectares is prohibited. In France, no maximum surface area threshold is defined by law. The cutting thresholds set by the departments can be circumvented by a simple application for authorisation from the prefecture. This legal vacuum increases predation on our forests. Large co-operatives that produce plans, carry out forest work and market wood have an interest in recommending a shaved cut to the owners, to increase their earnings. It is time to make up for our delay by defining clear legislation and prohibitions. The forest is our common good. As Aldo Leopold, an ecologist and forester, said: "I have read many definitions of what an ecologist is, and I myself have written some of them, but I suspect that the best of them is not written in the pen, but in the punch. The question is, what does a man think of when he cuts a tree, or when he decides what to cut? An ecologist is someone who humbly realizes that every time he knocks, he writes his signature on the face of his land. " It is up to us to choose which signature we want to put on the face of our forests: that of the market which exhausts them for more wood and mistreats the human beings who work there, or that of the general interest, who takes care of it for the good of all? So my question is simple: are you in favour of a national cut ban?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u65	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u66	Thank you for your question, Mrs Panot: I know your real commitment to the forest, and I know how much you are working on this topic. Your question is very important, and I take it as such. I am ready to move forward in this area, as is the rest of the Government. The French forest is diverse, rich in its geographical context: France does not have a forest, but forests, depending on whether you are in the Meuse or in the South-West, for example in the Landes. These diverse geographical locations also have varying economic and health contexts. You mentioned the terrible outbreak of scolytes, against which the Government has deployed a plan – on which I do not come back, having already had the opportunity to answer one of your questions in this regard. Our forests perform several functions: combating erosion, improving water quality, preserving biodiversity, welcoming the public – which is still important, even though it has been reduced for three months – and producing wood. The wood resource, natural and renewable, has its full place in the model of a decarbonized economy that society calls for. We want to act in this direction, because it is not normal that the timber of the French forests should not be exploited in France. Forest policy is based on sustainable and multifunctional forest management and ensures the quality of all services rendered. The forest and the wood industry must not be opposed. You're asking me more precisely about shaves. I would remind you that this term refers to a cut followed by a plantation, usually of resinous essence. It must be noted that this method of forestry management is not the majority in France: if it was the rule of the time of the national forest fund, less than 15% of the areas in regeneration are now the subject of resinous plantations. Thus, as the national forest inventory shows, the French forest does not undergo any regression on deciduous forests, which form two thirds of the metropolitan forest. Nevertheless, the issue of forests has a cross-cutting dimension: it is both an environmental issue, as you have pointed out, an economic issue, but also, because more and more of our citizens are concerned about it, a social issue. This is why last week the Court of Auditors submitted a report on the structure of the forest-wood sector to the Finance Committee of the National Assembly. That is why six NGOs decided to share their thoughts in a recent report. That is why last October I asked the professionals to build a roadmap for adapting forests to climate change, which is expected to come back to me in the near future. That is also why the Prime Minister has entrusted your colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot with the task of reflecting on the issues related to the forest and the razed cuts. His recommendations will be made before the summer, and I pledge to meet with those involved in this matter, and perhaps you yourself, to determine the direction we can take in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u67	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No. 1056, on trust between the police and the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u68	The United States is not France, of course. But differences cannot erase the commonalities that appear in the eyes of many of our fellow citizens. Recently, in the United States, thousands of people have risen after the murder of George Floyd by Minneapolis police. A worldly, healthy, just and legitimate indignation has spread. In France, this anger resonates with the fighting that has been waged so that all the light can be shed on the death of several of our fellow citizens during interrogations. Here, too, in France, tens of thousands of people gathered to recall that before George Floyd, there were Mr. Adama Traoré, Mrs. Zineb Redouane, Zyed Benna, Bouna Traoré and many others. In the face of this rising outrage, Minister Castaner announced measures to try, he said, to put an end to police violence and racism in the police. So it took several years and a broad popular mobilization to finally recognize that problems exist. Why so much time lost? Since the appointment of Mr Castaner, it has been felt that the Ministry of the Interior has always sought to silence these problems, to minimize them, to stifle them, denying violence against yellow vests and abnormally violent arrests, especially in working-class neighbourhoods, and sometimes preferring to collate false information. I thus remember Mr Castaner telling me here that the violent arrest that had taken place in Bordeaux was fair, since the facts against the abused person were proven, which was totally false. The latest report of the Defender of Rights, published yesterday, shows that this attitude was false. As the number one principal, your responsibility is directly engaged and you owe explanations to the national representative. Why does the IGPN, the General Inspectorate of the National Police, pronounce so few sanctions, while acts of violence are proven and circulating on social networks, that racist Facebook groups are revealed in the press and that the sanctions imposed against France by some international bodies show that these are not isolated acts? I have a particular thought for police officers who have raised their voices against these racist statements, especially, and even if he is not the only one, to Mr. Noam Anouar, a policeman, currently dragged in front of the IGPN, if I may allow this expression, and threatened with many administrative sanctions, while he was a whistleblower who should have been listened to. Why, if not ordered, did you at least tolerate 30,000 LBD shots – a defensive bullet launcher – and more than 10,000 explosive grenade shots in just two years, especially during the yellow vest demonstrations? I have tabled, with the group of La France insoumée, a bill to ban these potentially lethal weapons, which mutilate and break lives. You swept it away with a back of your hand. Why are certain techniques of interpellation, such as ventral plating, not called into question? Also with our group, Mrs Obono and Mr Bernalicis have tabled a bill, which you have rejected. As you have understood, today there is a serious situation, a lack of confidence in a large part of the population in our police, which must be a public service appreciated by all and respected. For him to be so, each of those who have this difficult mission must be respectable. To be frank, we lack confidence in the idea that you can carry out this work. Why did you lose your time? Why did it take this scandal revealed by the press agency StreetPress, which showed that two groups, bringing together 8000 and 9000 people respectively, including many police officers, were making intolerable statements? Why did it take all this time and this reaction that did not come from the institution for you to start making statements in the right direction? I want to consider that the press conference that took place yesterday is a positive point, a small step forward, but that of lost time, that of wounded people, that of lives lost as a result of interrogation techniques and a banalisation of things intolerable by the institution! It's a bad time, Secretary of State. As you will have understood, Mr Castaner seems to us to have been so little up to the situation that the statement by which we requested his resignation is still valid. However, I would like to hear you answer the question of why so much time has been lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor for a short time now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u70	Mr President, I shall endeavour, in a short time, to answer a question which covered a wide range of issues. First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister of the Interior has announced measures, in which I have taken my part, taking into account my experience and the role I play with him. I cannot let you say that we have taken time to react, because the problem of racism in the police has always been taken into account. Training on these topics has been organized for many years, particularly as part of the initial training of peacekeepers and gendarmerie personnel. Whenever there are offensive or racist acts or utterances, disciplinary proceedings are initiated. Racism has no place in the national police or the national gendarmerie. We have said it and repeated it, and we are reacting firmly. However, as the minister said yesterday and as I reminded myself last night on BFM TV, we do not want any amalgam, nor do we want to say, as I have heard, that the police would be racist in a systemic way. That's not true. There are certainly isolated acts, which cast reproach on the whole institution and which must be punished. It is because we want to preserve this fundamental link between the police and the population, between the police and the citizens, and to preserve the image of the institution, that we want to punish even more severely the perpetrators of offensive or racist statements or acts; Hence the announced strengthening of the rules of police ethics. In the same way, we reviewed all the interrogation techniques and it was decided to remove one from the use of the police, because it was dangerous for us. The others, I believe, are indispensable to interrogate violent individuals who have often committed offences and who are not being questioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u71	Mr. Chouviat wasn't really a violent individual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u72	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No. 1080, concerning the police station in Riom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u73	Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, the burning news shows us that it is urgent to restore the link between our Republican police and the population. Yet, in the department of Puy-de-Dôme, the reality of the moment leaves me a bit dubious, even suspicious, about the future of our department's internal security. Unfortunately, I can only deplore the lack of human resources assigned to the Riom police station. In fact, while the annual number of staff is fifty-four, the understaffing is flagrant, since they are now only fifty, and tomorrow forty-eight due to two scheduled departures. Moreover, the situation in Clermont is not mirobolic either. Unfortunately, the consequences are concrete and desolating, with the staff unable to carry out their missions effectively, as the 2019 statistics unfortunately show. This also leads to absurdities, such as the sleep of an ATV brigade, due to a lack of sufficient staff, after only three months of operation, while the brigade enjoyed very favourable returns from the population. Worse still, this situation is aggravated by a multitude of missions carried out by the officers of this police station to the prison and the Court of Appeal in Riom. For example, these officers carried out 170 judicial extractions for 2019 alone, while, as you know, these interventions are supposed to be carried out by the services of the Ministry of Justice. As for the Judicial Delegation Unit, it is composed of only one officer, who is responsible for 800 cases per year. The response that I hear regularly, that it is a matter of making up for the shortcomings of the national police by the municipal police, is, as you know, a false solution. Our police need financial and human resources, not the state's defeat of the communities, especially the communes. So my question is simple: will you give us the staffing resources provided by your own administration, namely fifty-four agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u74	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u75	Madam Member, I can assure you that the fight against crime remains a constant priority of the Government, which, as you know, has taken major steps since 2017 to strengthen the budgetary resources, the staff resources and the legal means of law enforcement. The determination of the Minister of the Interior and mine are permanent. To answer the very specific questions you are asking, the strength of the Riom Public Security District was sixty-two officers at the end of 2016 and, as of April 30, 2016, sixty-seven. This constituency has, in particular, a number of peace officers almost in line with its reference strength – that is, according to the elements at my disposal, not fifty, but fifty-three, for a reference strength of fifty-four. This last point is important, as it is mainly these police officers who are mobilised on a daily basis on the public road. These figures are expected to remain stable in the coming months, with at this stage, for the entire police station, a planned strength of sixty-six officers by the end of October. It is also important to bear in mind that these police officers can, whenever necessary, receive the reinforcement of departmental staff. In this regard, I would point out that the departmental Directorate of Public Security of your department has a total number of senior officers and guards of nine units above the target strength. Nevertheless, we will be paying attention to the situation of the electoral district in the context of future movements of transfer. You have referred to the judicial charges against officials in this police district. Work has indeed, as you recalled, been undertaken with the Chancery for several years to reduce these burdens and refocus the police on their priority tasks, and progress has indeed been achieved. I must therefore contradict you on this point, particularly with regard to judicial transfers. This policy continues, and while there are still legal burdens on the police in the riding, their impact is more limited than it was. For example, in 2019, hearings police mobilized 2.3% of the operational potential of the police district, 2.5% of extractions and escorts and 1.8% of inmate guards. These data remain the same at the beginning of 2020. In any case, you can count on the mobilization of the police, Madam Member. It will continue and there is no question of making the local authorities compensate for what you call the shortcomings of the State, because that would not be acceptable. It is, on the other hand, together, in a complementary and coordinated manner, giving priority to the involvement of the national police in its missions to combat crime, that we can act more effectively for our fellow citizens in a genuine security continuum. Security is everyone's business, as we have just been reminded of the difficulties we are experiencing in terms of relations between the police and the population. The police cannot be the only receptacles for security problems in our country: there must be a partnership, a continuum, and everyone must be committed to what they can bring about in terms of security. The National Police must focus on its priority objectives, which are essentially to combat crime. It is very important and it does so everywhere in France, as in your constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u76	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, I had kept time, but you took advantage of it, and that's so much better. However, I would like to thank you. If your words are correct – there is no controversial intention in mine – and the number is fifty-three, I take them! You can check the figures, because the commander of the police station in Riom, at which I went to check them yesterday, told me that there were fifty, not fifty-three. If you give me three more, while the reference number is fifty-four, I'll take it. We are asking for nothing more than respect for this figure, but I assure you that the fifty-three agents are not there today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u78	Mrs Pires Beaune, I am sure that you and the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to discuss this situation again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u79	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to put his question, No. 1086, on trust between the police and the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u80	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, your Minister announced yesterday a zero tolerance against racism in French law enforcement. However, in the IGPN annual activity report for 2019, also published yesterday, the expression "racist or discriminatory insults" simply disappeared. This decision, which was taken last March at a time when revelations about groups such as the one recently discovered in Rouen or "TN Rabiot Police Officielle", on Facebook, about which the Ministry of the Interior has seized the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, is surprising. At the same time – chance of the calendar – Jacques Toubon, Defender of Rights, also published his report of activity, which tells us that, of the thirty-six files that he has submitted to the Government due to breaches of police ethics, he did not get any answer. It also indicates that 84 per cent of those interviewed to find out whether or not they had had an identity check in the past five years said that this was not the case, but that 40 per cent of young people aged 18-24 reported that they had already been checked and 80 per cent of men perceived as Black or Maghreb Arabs had been checked. The Minister of the Interior announced yesterday a mission against police racism, in which civil society could participate. Can we know in what form, and will national representation be associated with it? A reform of the General Inspectorate of the National Police was also announced. Can you, Secretary of State, tell us a little more? The police officers responsible for this control will find their peers in the field. Is this going to change or not? You also announced a reminder of the rules applicable to identity checks and the strengthening of pedestrian cameras. In view of the facts that I have just recalled and as young people around the world are working for equality, these statements seem to me a little out of date. Why not simply generalize the use of webcams on board and introduce, for example, a 30-day time limit to contest the arrests? After the bottleneck, will the ventral veneer be abandoned? Mr Secretary of State, as a Member of Parliament, but also as a grand son of a policeman, I can see the difficulties that law enforcement officials face in their work, but if answers to the challenges are not forthcoming, this situation will only worsen. Take stock of the problem and give us the means to truly restore its letters of nobility to the Republican police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u81	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u82	Mr President, you are asking me, in fact, about the link of trust between the police and the population. This relationship remains very strong, and it is important, because the police and gendarmes are the pillars of our Republic. All the actions in which they are called into question, they do them first of all to protect our fellow citizens, to fight crime and to call the perpetrators of offences. I want that to be said and heard. These are not free interventions, conducted for pleasure. They aim to protect our fellow citizens throughout the national territory, including in the most sensitive neighbourhoods where the police have never been so demanded. We must remember this context, which we tend to forget a little bit. It is true that this link is being eroded at the moment, for several reasons that I also want to recall. First, some political groups may have suggested that, in response to violence during demonstrations, law enforcement forces had made disproportionate use of force, thus responding to orders from the political power, as if there was a form of political police whose aim would be to suppress demonstrations. I do not believe that this kind of speech helps to strengthen the link between the police and the population. Second, police officers are too often alone in dealing with security issues that, Mr. Member of Parliament, you are also confronted with in your constituency, as I have been during my professional career. All too often, the other actors – be they communes, social donors, carriers, associations – are not involved. But we need to build a security continuum, a real partnership, so that the police officers take care of what they have been trained to do, fight crime, and that they are not asked to deal with the problems of incivility. It's very important. When young people create nuisances by playing football at the foot of a building bar, do you really think it's the police who have to intervene? Couldn't other actors be mobilized? This is the meaning of the Government's policy in the context of day-to-day security, which is likely to strengthen the link between the police and the population. With regard to the structural reform of the police, the General Inspectorate of the National Police will be headed by the General Inspectorate of the Administration, which will be responsible for better coordinating its actions and dealing with the most sensitive cases by carrying out an administrative investigation on every suspicion of violence in an emblematic case. I remind you that the General Inspectorate of the Administration had already taken up the Steve Maia Caniço case in Nantes. We will continue on this path through the reform. In addition, the Minister of the Interior recalled yesterday, at his press conference, the rules applicable to identity checks. All police officers and gendarmes will be instructed to do so. An identity check is carried out when you want to prevent a disorder of public order or in case of suspicion of an offence. And that's it. There's no control in the face, Congressman. It was important to remind police officers and gendarmes of these rules in a precise way, and that is what we have done. Similarly, as you mentioned, we are going to generalize the use of pedestrian cameras as much as possible, which, by providing images, protect both our staff and the controlled. Finally, ventral plating is one of the techniques of intervention to bring back to the ground someone who does not allow himself to be questioned – I insist on this point – in order to be able to handcuff him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u83	Thank you, Secretary of State... We decided to remove the technique that seemed to us the most dangerous, the technique of bringing someone back to the ground by taking him by the neck.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u84	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to put her question, No. 1078, on the reform of the natural disaster regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u85	The preamble to the 1946 Constitution, in its paragraph 12, enshrined the principles of solidarity and equality of all citizens with regard to the burdens resulting from national calamities. As noted in a recent fact-finding mission to the Senate, our country, given its geographical location and the ongoing climate change, is particularly vulnerable to these natural disasters. However, in the face of these, our compensation system is inadequate. Indeed, its procedure, which revolves around an interministerial commission whose composition and criteria of assessment appear to be particularly obscure, does not sufficiently ensure fairness, efficiency and transparency. I have already alerted the Minister of Economy and Finance on this issue by telling him of the distress of the victims of my constituency – gathered in the association "Les Oubliés de la heatcule" – whose homes suffered great damage as a result of the severe droughts of 2018 and 2019. Indeed, while this climate phenomenon has been observed in the same way throughout the department of Sarthe, only five of the 25 municipalities concerned have been recognised in a state of natural disaster, depriving many citizens of any possibility of compensation by their insurance. In response to the need to reform our compensation system, a bill, defended by our colleague Senator Nicole Bonnefoy, was passed on first reading in the Senate on January 15. This text makes welcome changes and could usefully be supplemented, in particular to take into account specific phenomena, such as drought and soil rehydration, the effects of which have the peculiarity of being unable to be immediately perceptible or directly attributable to a climate phenomenon. I would therefore simply like to know, on the one hand, whether the Government is in favour of this necessary legislative amendment aimed at changing the criteria for the recognition of the state of natural disasters and, on the other hand, what are the deadlines for action. Secretary of State, do you agree to put this bill on the agenda of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u86	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u87	Since its establishment in 1982, the system of compensation for victims of natural disasters has proved its strength and legitimacy on many occasions. A total of €36 billion in compensation was paid, or about €1 billion per year, including €150 million for floods and €400 million for drought. About €2 billion was paid out as a result of Hurricane Irma, which devastated the islands of Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy, more than 80% of which was supported by the Central Reinsurance Fund. In total, around 3300 recognitions of the state of natural disasters are granted per year, to the benefit of millions of victims in almost the entire French territory. The composition and organisation of the commission responsible for examining communal applications now allow a flexible functioning of this purely technical body which, since 2018, has met fifteen to eighteen times a year and has dealt with between 7,000 and 8,000 communal applications for recognition. The Government is constantly pursuing the objective, which you mentioned, of improving the transparency and quality of the motivations of recognition and non-recognition decisions. Efforts have been made in this direction in recent months. Thus, the iCatNat computer application has significantly improved transparency for the French municipalities. However, you are right, we can do better. The President of the Republic called for a reform of compensation in the event of natural disasters. France, already exposed to such risks, could indeed see its level of exposure increase in frequency and intensity. According to Central Reinsurance Fund projections, based on IPCC results, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the cost of natural disaster compensation could increase by 50 per cent by 2050. The regime must therefore be modernised to adapt to changing risks and climate change challenges. The Government is pleased that this objective is shared by both assemblies. With regard to the bill you are referring to, the Government presented its views at the plenary vote in the Senate on 15 January. It shares the wish to improve the transparency of the recognition procedure, to encourage prevention, to participate in the establishment of a risk culture and to adapt the scheme to the needs of insured persons. Additional expertise is needed on these different themes in order to retain the most relevant provisions and to arrive at a technically successful mechanism. In the near future, the Government will consult with all stakeholders with a view to furthering this work collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u88	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u89	Listening to you, I understood that once again, it was urgent to wait for further consultations! I repeat, therefore, that this bill was passed unanimously in the Senate. Do you imagine, during this time, the unbearable distress in which these people who see a good, for whom they have most often committed themselves in the long term, completely destroyed, and who are exposed to risks to their health? It seems to me very urgent to take into account this disarray and these difficulties. The inclusion of this new bill in the schedule of our assembly may be a major step forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u90	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert spoke of her question, No. 1075, concerning relocation for the benefit of the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u91	My question concerns the relocation of the headquarters of industrial enterprises to the benefit of the metropolises. For example, in Lestrem, Pas-de-Calais, 25 kilometres from Lille, has been established since 1933 Roquette, which is the pride of the community of communes Flanders Lys and the district of Bethune. This long-family company, which has become one of the five world leaders in the starch industry, is present in more than 100 countries, with 2700 of its 8000 employees located in Lestrem. Until 2015, the headquarters was at the heart of the site. The head and body of the company were one. With the arrival of a new team of leaders, it was decided to transfer the general management and then the head office to La Madeleine, closer to Lille, more attractive because closer to the airport, train stations, schools and talents, thus concretizing the aspiration effect of a metropolis – the MEL, the European metropolis of Lille – which dried up its territory instead of irrigating it, and making the company take the risk of losing its soul. While the economic sustainability of some industrial enterprises sometimes requires a spatial reorganization, Roquette does not achieve good results. In spite of this, 115 employees have recently been offered to leave the historic site of Lestrem to join the metropolitan headquarters. Roquette is not the first company to separate his head from his body. Beyond their ecological nonsense, their impact on the local fabric, the fact that they contribute to the embolism of big cities and the current enhancement of CSR, the social responsibility of companies, in our economy, such measures do not leave to question their meaning and their long-term consequences, as they help to accentuate the fractures that we strive to reduce, a fortiori when they are decided by companies that have received public money. I welcome and share the recent remarks of Mr Roux de Bézieux, President of the MEDEF, who has become aware of what I will call the necessary "demétropolisation": we must, he explains, take into account the reality of the ground, which requires a better adaptation to the differences and the territorial specificities. The decision-making centres, he adds, wealth and talent are concentrated in the metropolises, a serious phenomenon which leads to attrition of the territories. In addition, dense use of typically urban areas, such as public transport, appears to have played a role in the spread of the virus. There is no doubt that displacement is an essential dimension of the crisis we are going through and reveals the flaws of metropolization. Mr. Secretary of State, do you share these concerns? How can we avoid these decisions that are detrimental to our territories and ensure that our businesses remain or become a vehicle for rebalancing territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u92	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u93	It seems to us that the development of our territories must reflect an overall vision and that it is not a question of opposing metropolitan and medium-sized cities to rural and urban areas. What is at stake, as you said, is the reduction of territorial inequalities, which is one of the priorities of the quinquennium; It is made even more acute by the factors you mentioned. The maintenance of enterprises, including industrial enterprises in rural and medium-sized areas, is therefore essential and undoubtedly contributes to territorial rebalancing. That is why I will allow myself to quote the programme "industries territories" which, by mobilising €1.3 billion in financial resources, aims to support industrial enterprises in the territories. Today, 148 territories benefit from this programme, which is based on four pillars: improving our competitiveness-cost ratio, innovation, training and a strong territorial presence. The vast majority of these territories are outside metropolitan areas, although we have not made them a matter of principle. I would also like to refer to the report of the rural agenda mission, which, in particular, helped to build a concrete and ambitious plan of action for our campaigns. To combat the disappearance of businesses in rural communities and to promote their re-establishment, the Government has, for example, validated the launch in 2020 of a plan to support small businesses in rural areas. In this context, small businesses located in municipalities with less than 3500 inhabitants will be able, with the agreement of the municipalities concerned, to benefit from tax exemptions, such as the CFE, the business property assessment, or the TFPB, the property tax on built properties. In order to enhance the attractiveness of rural areas, the Government has also committed to the removal of white mobile telephones in five years and the transfer of all existing towers to 4G by the end of 2020. In addition, a minimum threshold of 5G sites to be deployed in rural areas will be defined as part of the frequency allocations to operators. Finally, as you pointed out, I am convinced that the global crisis caused by the Coronavirus epidemic will have an impact on the organisation of the economy by giving rise to a profound reflection on a better organisation of value chains and on the relocation of several strategic activities for France. The relocation of skills is not limited to metropolitan areas, as evidenced by the current migration of some urban areas to rural areas. The Government has been actively working for several weeks on these relocation and migration movements. Our hope is that they will also benefit the territories – including medium-sized cities and rural municipalities – and participate in their development, demonstrating that this Government is committed to ensuring a territorial economic balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u94	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u95	I am confident that the current events and the willingness to relocate will be beneficial to the territories. We must seize this opportunity. As Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, you have an essential role to play in reenchanting our territories, which are a little isolated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u96	The floor is open to Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere to put forward her question, No. 1065, concerning the future of traditional crafts and know-how after the crisis of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u97	Hotels, restaurants and tourism are deeply affected by the crisis we are going through. Taking into account the risk to this strategic sector of our economy, the Government has set up the tourism plan. I'm very pleased with that. To preserve tourism is first and foremost to preserve, as the Government has chosen to do, hotels, restaurants, transport companies and the 2 million direct jobs provided by all companies, while waiting for the 90 million foreign tourists to come back to the beaches of Brittany and Côte d'Azur, visit our capital and its monuments, taste our gastronomy and enjoy the charms of Lake Vassivière. In Haute-Vienne, it is the natural parks, places of memory such as Oradour-sur-Glane and traditional know-how that attract every year French and foreign tourists. The emblematic example of this know-how is the porcelain of Limoges, which, in addition to its direct contributions to the region in terms of employment and income, ensures the publicity of the city in France and throughout the world. And this applies not only to the Limousin, but also to the Drôme and its traditional Gallo-Roman pottery, to the town of Grasse and its perfumes, the crystals of the Great East and the glass factories of the Alpes-Maritimes. But let's go back to porcelain: its economy is heavily dependent on restaurants and hotels, and therefore tourism, especially worldwide. It is the orders of restaurants and palaces, in France and abroad, that ensure the profitability of the sector. However, these crafts that contribute to the influence of our regions and our country are not currently the subject of any specific assistance. The possibility of continuing partial unemployment beyond June 2020 is a real relief for professionals in these sectors, but there is an urgent need. In the case of porcelain, order books collapsed, with very many requests for cancellation or, at best, for postponement sine die. The loss of revenue has been estimated at between 40 and 60 per cent since the start of the crisis, and the recovery is timid. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to carry out specific actions to protect the know-how of our territories, in particular products labeled IGP – protected geographical indication – and AOP – protected designation of origin? Are you considering extending some of the measures taken for the tourism sector to include the mentioned trades and products and to our heritage businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u98	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u99	As you have said, the professionals in the arts and living heritage are suffering from the effects of the health crisis: first of all, the cancellation of many trade fairs and events, which are essential for exposing and marketing their production; but also the collapse of tourism and catering, which also represent important opportunities for these trades. In order to overcome the immediate difficulties, these companies with the know-how of excellence were able to benefit from the transverse support measures put in place very quickly by the Government: solidarity funds, loans guaranteed by the State, postponement or even cancellation of social security charges for very small enterprises which have been the subject of administrative closures, exceptional scheme of partial unemployment. In the face of the scale of the crisis, the Government has decided to maintain exceptional measures of support for the tourism sector. We assess the opportunity to take advantage of it in sectors other than tourism, but which are economically highly dependent on tourism. The exceptional know-how is also a reflection of the cultural identity of our territories. In order to support the artisans and businesses that make them live in a sustainable manner, the Government entrusted three parliamentarians in 2018 with a temporary mission on the preservation and development of the art and heritage professions living in France. The report submitted at the end of this mission, "France, Métiers d'Excellence", formulated a series of proposals, some of which are in the process of being implemented. For example, the trades tax credit was extended for the period 2020-2022. Following an impact study carried out by the National Institute of Crafts – INMA – the Institute will propose, with the support of the Government, a specific recovery plan involving closely professional and patrons. This plan will have to include actions complementary to the support mechanisms proposed by the State to help these professionals get out of the crisis. The actions will include the digitisation of sales channels and the organisation of events such as the European Day of Crafts and Living Heritage, which was announced in the 2021 edition. Depending on the health situation, operations can also be carried out within the framework of the European Heritage Days. Finally, INMA is working on a special operation for the end-of-year celebrations to promote the work of these professionals and to encourage the French to favour the purchase of gifts made in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u100	The next speaker is Mr Hubert Wulfranc, to put his question, No. 1057, concerning the preservation of the UPM Chapelle Darblay de Grand-Couronne stationery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u101	We are amazed by the political, economic, social and environmental treatment of the situation of the company UPM Chapelle Darblay de Grand-Couronne, in Seine-Maritime. For nine months now and the announcement by the Finnish Group of its closure scheduled for 15 June, in the absence of a sponsor, no initiative by the Minister of Economy and Finance has been taken. This unit of production of recycled paper for the press – France has two – and the know-how of its 230 employees is a few days away from liquidation, and nothing is done. It's total indifference – or I've missed something since my oral question on November 19. In the name of freedom of property, you let the Finnish group, which wants to reduce its production capacity and prevent a competitor from settling in in order to maintain its profits. At a time when you are promulgating a more industrialized national territory, a more environmentally friendly circular economy, a more offensive political will, at a time when public money is irrigating the preservation and revival of the country's enterprises, no project in which the state is committed with determination has been examined for the sustainable wood-paper industry. My question is simple: what do you answer this day to a week of a potential announcement of permanent closure, to the employees and elected representatives of the territory – Mr Patrice Dupray, Mayor of Grand-Couronne, Mr Yvon Robert, President of the metropolis of Rouen, Mrs Sira Sylla, our colleague from the La République group on the move and Member of Parliament for the constituency – gathered together, with many others, to ask you to finally act on this matter of extreme urgency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u102	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u103	As you said, UPM announced at the end of last year its intention to surrender or close the stationery of Chapelle Darblay located in Grand-Couronne, near Rouen. As a result of this announcement and after a first phase of searching for a buyer, the group initiated a plan to safeguard employment. This factory, as you also pointed out, is now producing newsprint – a market that has been in a very serious decline for many years, further aggravated by the crisis of the covid-19. The site is now only charged to a third of its capacity. Before the crisis, at the beginning of 2019, the paper group VPK designed and presented a serious plan to take over this stationery to convert it and produce paper for corrugation, as it had been done at the Stracel site near Strasbourg. The project provided for the takeover of about 80 of the 220 employees on the site. The main difficulty associated with this possible transaction is the time taken to transfer the site and part of the staff, and the costs of transforming the industrial tool. The crisis of the covid-19 and the very great uncertainties surrounding not only the VPK recovery project, but also the market environment of the two groups, which face a sharp decline in the demand of their customers and have very low visibility, led the two companies to abandon the transfer project in the short term. Indeed, VPK does not wish to take such a financial risk without any visibility on the pace and strength of the economic recovery, and UPM does not wish to bear any longer the significant losses caused by the site in sub-activity. The employment protection plan procedure that UPM has initiated is governed by legal deadlines, which the company has complied with. However, the work continues, in conjunction with the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Labour, with the aim of carrying out the project as long as the economic conditions allow the actors to commit themselves to it. The advantages of the site are real and allow us to consider reviving a paper business there: so we asked UPM to keep the site in operational condition to give the conversion project all its chances. The VPK project is very serious and has found its funding. What is missing today is visibility of the economic situation and the demand of its customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u104	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u105	Beyond this project, there is a region, Haute-Normandie, a department, the Seine-Maritime, a strong and powerful metropolis, Rouen. They are partners who want to accompany a credible project that would ensure the sustainability of the site. Nine projects from trade union organizations have been lost in the State drawers for months. We also have an example of a successful experiment: the assembly carried out a few years ago for the M-Real stationery, located in the Eure, a few kilometres from the site of Chapelle Darblay, allowed the site to be maintained thanks to the commitment of the public authorities and public partners in favour of a credible industrial project. Without wishing to harm you, Secretary of State, I note that, for the second time, it is not Mr Le Maire or Mrs Pannier-Runacher, but you who answer me. One week before the final decision, I see a bad omen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u106	Mr Stéphane Mazars, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1085, concerning the special situation of school travel companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u107	Our country is experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis, linked to the covid -19 pandemic. Among the sectors most affected are tourism, which also has a massive Government support plan – it is to be welcomed. Among the most affected companies in the sector are tour operators, for whom the State has taken specific measures to enable them to maintain their cash flow as best as possible. Among them, however, one category of companies remains very concerned about its future: the one specializing in language stays and school trips. From the first days of the state of emergency, I asked the State about this subject, which affects me all the more since in my department, this sector represents six leading companies at national level and more than 250 employees, which has allowed Aveyron to impose itself over the decades as the cradle and lung of the language stay in France. My inquiries concerned the specific nature of this type of travel, which is incompatible with the principle of deferred reimbursement of the assets which was provided for traditional tour operators. Indeed, having it does not make sense for an audience of travellers – students, college students or students – who are likely to leave the class or institution in the following year. Moreover, this principle applied to travel companies in general seems to be at issue today by the European Commission, which on 13 May last invited Member States to take measures to give priority to the right to immediate reimbursement of travellers. In my various inquiries, I relayed the proposal of the professionals of the sector: to create, at the state level, a compensation fund which would, in particular, make it possible to ensure the reimbursement of schools and, consequently, of the parents of pupils, which would have the advantage of removing the difficulty of the principle of ownership and of providing financial assistance to meet the difficulties of this highly affected sector. What is the Government's position on the establishment of this support fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u108	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u109	The purpose of Order No. 2020-315 of 25 March is indeed to help tourism players to overcome a difficult situation. Otherwise, the risk to professional cash flow would have been too high in terms of the number of repayments to be made. The order thus allows all professionals to offer, instead of a refund, an equivalent amount of assets, which can be used for a future benefit. This possibility applies to travel agencies as well as other tourism professionals. Importantly, this measure also benefits associations that offer the same type of benefits, often for social purposes, especially those that receive minors. The cancellations covered by the order are those notified between 1 March and 15 September 2020. At the end of 18 months, if the client did not use the asset, the professional will have to pay it back. The provision of the order is an opportunity for the claimant, whatever its nature, and not an obligation. If the claimant prefers to repay his clients, he can do so: it is up to him to assess the best solution suited to his situation. In the case of school trips, it is understood that students will have changed their class or even their school, and may have to be reimbursed. It should be noted that the order only alters the professional's relationship with the end client. It does not change the legal relationship between the person selling a trip and his or her own suppliers. Organisers of school trips should therefore be able to be reimbursed for a benefit which, in this case, has been the subject of a resolution – for force majeure or exceptional circumstances – related to covid-19. Under these circumstances, the Government does not at this stage consider replacing professionals for reimbursements, whether or not they are free to make. This could create a moral hazard by suggesting that the state itself guarantees the funds paid to professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u110	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u111	At the very least, your answer is worrying – not for me, but for the hundreds of employees who work in the sector. Without support funds, these companies will not, I fear, be able to pass the course of a crisis that could be fatal to them. It is important to understand the difficulty of this very specific sector: the actors will not be able to obtain reimbursement downstream of the benefits they have already started to pay to the beneficiaries, who are sometimes abroad, since these school trips often take place abroad, but will have to repay upstream of schools and, behind them, families who have advanced costs for trips that will not take place. Your response is therefore somewhat worrying and I call on the Government to pay particular attention to these travel agencies, which are doing very specific work and cannot be combined with conventional travel agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u112	The floor is open to Mr. Jacques Cattin to put his question, No. 1073, concerning the wine sector and the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u113	My question is addressed to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts and concerns the taxation linked to the increase in wine stocks caused by the health crisis, despite the measures announced to support distillation and the reductions in yields proposed by the regional wine authorities. The dramatic economic situation plunges many farms into a very worrying financial situation, due to unprecedented missale. The creation of very large stocks will have a negative impact on the cash flow of companies as a result of taxation that does not take account of actual sales, since taxation is not appropriate for the situation. Similarly, the scope of the precautionary savings deduction – DEP – is too narrow. The wine industry therefore proposes to introduce an exceptional tax system to neutralise the increase in the value of stocks, on the option of the operator. Are you ready to support this request in the context of the next amending finance bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u114	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u115	First of all, I would like to recall that since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has applied unprecedented fiscal, social or budgetary measures to enable all of our businesses to overcome the difficulties arising from this crisis. Apart from exemption measures on compulsory levies, support for the wine sector amounts to EUR 170 million. These measures, and those to come under the recovery plan, must benefit all firms in difficulty. In addition, as you have mentioned, the specificities of agricultural activity are already taken into account within the framework of the mechanisms in force, which enable a large part of the concerns you raise to be addressed. Taking into account the change in the value of stocks at the end of the financial year in the company's profit or loss is a rule applicable to all enterprises, regardless of their sector of activity. Expenses included in the value of the inventory are not deducted in the year in which they are incurred, but subsequently at the time of disposal of the inventory. However, with regard to agricultural profits, because of the sometimes very slow rotation of stocks, the legislator has already introduced several mechanisms to mitigate the tax consequences of this principle. Wine-growers may therefore use the system of freezing the value of slow-moving stocks provided for in Article 72bis of the General Tax Code, which allows stocks of products to be recorded until the sale of those goods, at the value determined at the end of the financial year preceding that in respect of which the option is exercised. Consequently, the production costs for the financial year are not taken into account in the valuation of the stocks, but are, on the contrary, immediately deducted from the profit. This scheme, applicable on the option of the undertaking, covers all products whose inventory turnover exceeds one year and allows the deduction of all production costs of these stocks in the year of their commitment. This scheme is separate from the precautionary savings deduction, even if it can be combined. DEP is a tax tool for risk management and agricultural investment; it authorises an operator to reduce its taxable profit, provided that it constitutes a precautionary saving in monetary principle. However, in order to meet the needs of wine-growing in particular, this scheme enables the cost of production of slow-rotating stocks to be substituted for monetary savings. Finally, the three-year average tax mechanism allows income tax escalation to be mitigated in the event of high income irregularities, particularly in the event of an exceptional positive change in inventories. These various schemes are already capable of responding to the concern expressed by the profession and there is no provision for additional sectoral legislation, especially since the proposed measure would create inequality of treatment vis-à-vis other companies which have, in the current context, been faced with similar difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u116	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u117	You're talking about different devices, but your answer doesn't really convince me. I have cited the example of the DEP: this is certainly an interesting measure, but it is very limited. It is conditioned by the European de minimis rules...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u118	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u119	... and applies exclusively to businesses subject to farm profits, and not to those, many of which are subject to corporate tax. In addition, the DEP is capped, proportional to the agricultural profit: there are four strata, with a maximum of 41400 euros. Above all, the DEP does not solve the problem of the need for cash: to activate this system, 50% of the precautionary savings must be blocked in a bank account, even though financial availability is lacking. Pastor wrote in his time that wine is the most healthy and hygienic drink; Horace said that wine is life; And we, the winegrower, say that wine is good for morale: it is now necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u120	We all agree with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u121	The viticulture is thousands of direct and indirect jobs, from the vine to the table; It is the wine tourism with beautiful landscapes, Alsace, of course, Champagne, and many other regions;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u122	Southwest, dear to President Habib!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u123	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and it's gastronomy, culture, conviviality! The wine sector is also the pride of our country, it generates revenue, provides foreign exchange and pays important taxes, which we have always assumed – it will take, to feed the state's caisses... Secretary of State, you know what remains to be done in the third amending finance bill: I am counting on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u124	That's a very good plea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u125	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to raise her question, No. 1055, concerning independent designers and costumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u126	At the height of the health crisis, owing to the lack of adequate measures taken by the Government, the country experienced a shortage of masks and other protective equipment. In a spirit of solidarity, thousands of designers, costumers and costumers, volunteers and professionals, have made them, with their own means, to supply the population of neighbourhoods, nearby hospital centres or administrative staff. This gesture was quickly instrumentalized, promoting overexploitation. Communities of municipalities and enterprises that lacked staff have called on their services, imposing increasing constraints, with demands requiring up to 10 hours of daily work. Many have not been paid at all, others have received a significantly insufficient compensation of 40 cents per mask. Most of these people, however, are precarious or even receive no other remuneration; they often supplied the fabrics themselves, or took on their own funds to buy fabric and elastics. In other cases, they were hired under low-paid integration contracts instead of regular contracts. When the state placed the first industrial orders, they were ruled out: the licensing process favoured large-scale production, which posed a problem of unfair competition. Today these workers face another problem: for lack of planning by the state, after the shortage, we are overproduction, the importation of anti-ecological disposable masks having been privileged to the detriment of the washable masks produced in France. The dressmakers and costumers are thus double penalized: after being overexploited, they are now scrapped. Among these independents, 1658 professionals joined together in the collective Bas les maskes, to denounce the hours of unpaid work and the employment of an underpaid labour force for the benefit of large companies or communities, which goes far beyond the framework of a voluntary one-off work, determined by solidarity. The collective has been a very comprehensive dossier, which I would like to make available to the ministers. It calls for the valorisation of the hours worked, the assurance that the employment of volunteers to remedy a shortage does not create a precedent and that in the event of a new crisis, the State requires companies obtaining contracts to hire regularly and to offer remuneration at an adequate hourly rate. How does the Government intend to respond to these legitimate demands?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u127	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u128	You're asking me about the situation of self-employed fashion designers and costume designers. First of all, I commend those professionals who have mobilized quickly to meet the needs of mask production for the benefit of all our citizens. As you know, in order to ensure the production of masks, the Government has strongly mobilized the French textile industry, which has responded to the call, with now more than 400 companies qualified in the production of "general public" masks. More than 20 million masks are made every week in France. Like any professional, designers and costumers are affected by the support measures introduced since the beginning of the crisis. As independent professionals, they are part of the solidarity fund, established by the State and the regions, which aims to support very small enterprises, micro-entrepreneurs, self-employed and the professions most affected by the crisis. In addition, the "Prevention Covid" grant is intended to help financially prevent the transmission of coronavirus to the workplace. For enterprises with less than fifty employees and self-employed persons without employees, whether they are traders, craftsmen or professionals, it supports them in the purchase or rental of equipment dedicated to preventing covid-19 at work. I can also mention the aid proposed by the Council for the Social Protection of Self-Employed Workers: craftsmen and traders, as well as their co-workers under the supplementary scheme for self-employed persons, received aid automatically at the end of April or the beginning of May from the Social Security Fund for Self-Employed Workers. To be eligible for this aid, it was necessary to be in operation on 15 March 2020 and to have been registered before 1 January 2019. The wide range of these measures, which complement those taken by regions and other communities, will enable smaller enterprises and self-employed people without employees to better cope with the crisis. Finally, I would like to point out that, sensitive to the situation in these sectors, the Government allowed the reopening of textile businesses, such as merceries, before 11 May, so that independent designers and costumers could obtain raw materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u129	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u130	That was absolutely not the question I asked you. I ask your Government about the measures that have taken place in relation to what has happened: the hidden work, the overexploitation of these workers. It is not a question of telling me that there is aid – these people are aware of it, even if it is sometimes difficult for them to have access to it. They requested that the hours worked be paid to help at the time of the peak of the crisis, when the Government was unable to provide for the needs. These individuals have committed themselves and have not been paid as they should have done: the aim is to ensure that the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Labour do their job to protect them, to ensure that they are paid and that this type of overexploitation does not happen again. Once again, after having so badly anticipated and planned that we find ourselves in a situation of overproduction, involving overexploited and unremunerated precarious people, we ask you to take your responsibilities and solve this problem of social justice with a fair remuneration for the work done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u131	I call Mr Yannick Haury to speak on his question, No. 1062 on SOS Médecins in the country of Retz.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u132	I would like to ask the Minister for Solidarity and Health about the medical coverage of the country of Retz, in the Loire-Atlantique. In the department, SOS Médecins intervenes only in two geographical areas, in Nantes and in Saint-Nazaire, the metropolitan heart. There are no medical facilities in South Loire, while the population of this tourist area triples during the summer period. It is true, as the regional health agency – ARS – points out, that the country of Retz receives outpatient care outside the opening hours of the medical offices. This is a permanence regulated by the departmental association for the permanence of the care of Loire-Atlantique; It brings together various doctors, and we thank all those who commit themselves to it. However, I would like to repeat and point out that during the summer months and the school holidays, the population of the country of Retz triples: the nursing homes cannot relieve the saturated emergencies of the hospital of Saint-Nazaire. Moreover, crossing the Loire became very difficult during these periods. The presence of SOS Médecins on the territory of the country of Retz would be a real improvement and would effectively relieve their services. After our country has gone through an unprecedented health crisis and you have launched the Segur of Health, the expectations of the population and the medical world are high. We must stop the disparities between the health treatments on both banks of the Loire and address the concerns of our caregivers, who are at the end of their breath. How do you intend to improve the medical coverage of the South Loire in the Loire-Atlantique? Will this involve the creation, expected, of a service of SOS Médecins?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u133	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u134	Mr Haury, your question concerns the medical coverage of the country of Retz and the possibility of setting up an SOS Médecins branch there, in order to relieve the emergency services of health facilities and to meet the needs of the population in this territory. We share your point: the demographic evolution and the prospect of the retirement of doctors in the years to come lead already to anticipate the points of fragility, seeking to consolidate the existing supply of first-use care and to organize the response to unscheduled care requests. Indeed, for a quality response, access to unscheduled care must be organized within a patient's care path, coordinated by the treating physician, as you know. An organized response of general medicine in daytime and on-going ambulatory care will avoid the inappropriate use of emergency services in health facilities. The country of Retz benefits from a permanent outpatient care, outside the opening hours of the medical offices, organised and effectively regulated by the departmental association of the organization and the permanence of care in the Atlantic Loire, which federates doctors specialists in general liberal medicine and employees participating in the permanence of outpatient care. Thus, this area is divided into three guard areas: the country of Retz, Bouaye, and the South-Loire-Vendée, each served by a medical guard house. The medical coverage of one or two doctors, depending on the sector and the period, which can be supplemented by a mobile doctor at night, seems to us to meet the unscheduled need for care both at night, at night and at weekends. The response to the demand for unscheduled day care must be carried out within the framework of the health project of the famous territorial occupational health communities – CPTS. Liberal professionals are at the heart of this system, as you know, in connection with their partners in the territories, whether they are residential institutions for dependent elderly people or health facilities. Improved access to care, the organization of patient response in search of a treating physician, and improved management of unscheduled care are among the priority tasks of the CPTS. The conventional interprofessional agreement for the development of the coordinated exercise and the deployment of the CPTS, signed on 20 June 2019, provides them with lasting funding. Three CPTS projects are under way, covering almost all municipalities in the country of Retz. Their development is accompanied not only by the Regional Health Agency, but also by the Primary Health Insurance Fund and the Regional Inter-Union of Health Professionals. It is in this context that we believe it is possible to answer, Mr. Member, the questions that you raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u135	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u136	Thank you. I hope that these developments will make it possible to take into account the characteristics of this highly demographically changing area, where the percentage of retired people is important, as is the tourism aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u137	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor to put his question, No. 1064, on the timetable for the reform of food aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u138	Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, during the major debate in March 2019, I participated in an inverted conference on single-parent families, which you were present at. This event, organized under the leadership of Marlene Schiappa, gave the floor to solo mothers and children of single parents, who shared their experience and made proposals. At the root of my commitment is this fight for equality between women and men and justice for single-parent families who too often live in anxiety about their resources being amputated because of a bad payer. Following the major debate, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister reaffirmed the Government's commitment to single-parent families by creating a public support payment service, entrusted to ARIPA – Agency for the Collection of Unpaid Maintenance. The challenge lies at the border of priority policies that we have been leading for three years: the great cause of gender equality and the prevention of poverty. While separation is still a disruption in the life of a family, the public authorities have a duty to provide separated parents with new rights and guarantees to enable them to focus on the essential aspects of the education and development of children. The draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 strengthened the support of families in the payment of maintenance payments by entrusting ARIPA with the establishment of a system for the payment of maintenance payments. The debtor parent will pay the pension to the Agency, which will pay it back immediately to the creditor parent, in order to secure it on this point. In the event of a default by the debtor parent, the Agency will organise a recovery procedure with the debtor parent and automatically pay the single parent a family support allowance of EUR 115 per month per child. This is a great step forward, which we can satisfy ourselves, but which is not yet implemented: the deployment of this measure was to take place in two phases which, due to the health crisis, have been delayed. This is a strong commitment of the Government to single-parent families, for which the period of health crisis has greatly increased the difficulties, as we know. The Government has undertaken to make the measure applicable by 1 January 2021 at the latest. I would therefore like to know what means will be used to keep this timetable, and to have elements to ensure that this date, which already seems far too late for families, will be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u139	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u140	As you said, Mr Gouffier-Cha, the crisis has somewhat disrupted the original timetable for the reform of the public maintenance service. However, the Government's commitment remains, of course, complete, for the simple reason that, as you have pointed out, this reform represents an important step forward for single-parent families, often faced with precarious conditions. The health crisis has revealed, exacerbated and brought to light a number of these situations. Yes, the covid epidemic has disrupted the functioning of our institutions and disrupted many projects. In this context of a state of health emergency, as well as economic and social, the preparation of the public maintenance service has been hampered. On the one hand, the situation of the courts did not allow them to place a new burden on them as from 1 June 2020. They are currently fully mobilized to reduce the stock of litigation that has been built up during the containment period, as you know. In addition, the development of the new information technology tools, which are essential for reform, has also been suspended so that the technical and human resources of the agencies can be fully concentrated on the implementation of the exceptional measures decided by the Government to support families and persons in precarious situations. I am thinking in particular of the exceptional aid for modest families and precarious young people, who have benefited nearly 5 million of our citizens. The funds were also mobilised by the aid granted to professionals through the extension of partial unemployment to maternal assistants, as well as by measures aimed at early childhood structures or social facilities, in particular the aid for closed places and the support bonus for reopening. The staff of the family allowance funds and the MSA – Agricultural Social Mutuality – were also fully mobilised during the crisis in order to ensure the continuity of the rights of the beneficiaries and the payment of benefits. Therefore, in order to enable the reform of maintenance payments to enter into force under optimal conditions, the Government proposed to postpone it to a later date, no later than 1 January 2021. The necessary preliminary work has resumed. They are a priority for the Government, which will ensure that all human and technical resources are mobilized to achieve high-quality implementation as soon as possible. The experts are in the process of defining, within the limit set by Parliament, the earliest possible date for the entry into force of the reform under conditions of optimum quality. In particular, we would like the measure to be applied as early as September or October in cases where an unpaid payment has already been reported to the Family Allowance Fund or the MSA Fund. Pending this new public service, persons raising a child alone for whom the other parent no longer pays maintenance can already benefit from the family support allowance. They can also ask the family allowance funds and the MSA to help them recover up to two years of unpaid maintenance arrears.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u141	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u142	Thank you for that answer. We will meet again in September to study the progress of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u143	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to put her question, No. 1069, concerning the financial situation of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u144	The Government announced several months ago the plan "Investing for the hospital", as a follow-up to the plan "My Health 2022", a plan much expected under the circumstances. Through this plan, he says he wants to relaunch current investment in order to renew more quickly the equipment and materials necessary for the daily work of the caregivers. The crisis of the covid-19 reminded us of some realities of our public hospital. The department of Orne would have benefited from an envelope of EUR 1.33 million, which, divided among its various establishments, would have reached EUR 220000 per hospital, which, you will agree, does not offer great prospects for the renewal of the equipment. This aid is derisory for a hospital such as that in Saint-Louis, in L'Aigle, whose obsolete rate of equipment is estimated at 96% in 2020, and whose tax and social debt is already close to €20 million. The Regional Chamber of Accounts had made recommendations, focusing in particular on the need to invest in the renewal of equipment and real estate. But in the current situation, the hospital in L'Aigle cannot invest. Unfortunately, the government's decision to take over one third of the hospital debt to create the necessary margins for the institutions – 10 billion first, then 13 billion later – remains insufficient. Indeed, the hospital in L'Aigle, keeping EUR 14 million in debt, will still have no investment capacity. Thus, finally, the recovery of a third of the debt does not bring anything to such a hospital. With an increase of 4.91% compared to 2019, the Saint-Louis Hospital is likely to close its fiscal year for 2020 with a deficit of 5.5 million euros. All services in this hospital are of major interest to patients, be they emergency care, general medicine, surgery, psychiatry services, maternity care, gynaecology services or residential care for dependent elderly. I could go into an inventory at the Prévert, but I'm sure you understand. In short, despite all the efforts made, the hospital simply cannot follow the Court of Auditors' recommendations on investment. How could he? Through the situation of the hospital of L'Aigle, which, I am sure you agree with my thought, is far from being an isolated case, the question arises of how the public hospital is financed. Will he remain under infusion, or will he gain additional room for manoeuvre? Does the covid crisis alter your diagnosis? Will the state's investment in an institution like L'Aigle be strengthened?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u145	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u146	Mrs Louwagie, I would like to provide some information to put the situation in perspective and to project us in the near future regarding the financial difficulties of health institutions and, in particular, the financial situation of the hospital in L'Aigle, Orne. This hospital is now essential to meet the health needs of the people of its territory, given its geographical isolation. As such, its development has been regularly accompanied for many years. At the end of 2018, he was authorised to perform the activity of anaesthesia or outpatient surgery and to strengthen his offer of care for the elderly, with the creation of a short geriatric stay unit of twenty beds as well as a continuous care unit of five beds. Despite this dynamism, the hospital in L'Aigle is facing a decline in its surgical activity and a high rate of flight from its patients to other institutions. It also suffers from significant difficulties in recruiting the professionals necessary for its operation. These difficulties have resulted in a significant deterioration of its financial situation. In order to limit the impact of this situation, since 2016 the institution has received a flat-rate financing which partially compensates for its geographical isolation, with a flat-rate payment of EUR 820000 for 2020. In addition, the hospital is regularly accompanied by the necessary investments for its modernisation. Since 2017, it has been allocated more than €3 million in investment aid, which corresponds to about 10% of its health operating budget. In addition, more than €3 million of cash credits are available to ease cash flow constraints during this crisis period. In addition to these accompaniments, the institution has strengthened its cooperation with the other institutions of Orne, within the hospital group of Eure-Seine-Pays d'Ouche territory. Such cooperation is essential to this institution, as is the case with others, in order to enable them to recruit the professionals they need and to regain a level of activity corresponding to the population of their territories. They are still to be developed in the direction of city medicine and medical and social institutions, in a way of cooperation of all professionals for the benefit of the local population. More broadly, Madam Member of Parliament, you mentioned "My Health 2022", and the plan for the hospital presented by the Prime Minister and Mrs Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Health at the time. As you know, on 25 May we launched the Ségur de la santé, which will be an opportunity to consult widely with all the actors of the hospital but also of the city medicine or the medico-social, with a view to defining in particular a new investment policy – this is one of the major projects of the Ségur. Beyond the recovery of the 13 billion debts you mentioned, it will be a matter of defining new policies for the financing of care facilities. The country of L'Aigle and its establishment are intended to be fully associated with this reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u147	Mr Julien Dive, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1070, concerning the premium for paramedics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u148	The health crisis that we are going through has highlighted all the professions that are at the forefront of the epidemic. Whether it is health workers, cashiers or farmers, they have all shown real courage to treat, help and feed the French, and we are grateful for that. But there are also the heroes of the shadow, those great forgotten of the health crisis, who were also in the front line. That's the case with the paramedics. Sometimes fourteen interventions on the same day; working days that extend to exhaustion; barely enough masks and overblouses: it is the daily life of the paramedics, whether they are from the private sector or in the hospital public service. Unrelentingly, they have accomplished their mission to save lives, despite more difficult and sometimes unacceptable working conditions in a country such as ours, not to mention the lack of State recognition of them. Take the more specific example of hospital paramedics. While they have also been at the forefront of the fight against the epidemic since the first day of the Government's April announcement of the health-care premium, they have not been mentioned once.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u150	Why? Because they are not part of the nursing staff as such: they belong to the body of ambulance drivers, governed by a decree of 12 December 2016. This means that they are not supposed to be in direct contact with patients. However, when they are involved in emergency services such as the UAS or the SMUR, they may have to provide first aid or even participate in emergency care if the patient's state of health deteriorates during a transfer. This is evidence of direct contact with the sick and wounded. They are not, contrary to what this decree suggests, mere drivers, they are also caregivers. They work on weekends, nights and public holidays, for a maximum salary at the end of their career of 1,800 euros. When representatives of such a profession demonstrate unwavering commitment, despite the risks they face, it seems fair and equitable to recognize their dedication and the importance of their mission to their value. This involves the recognition of the ambulance trade; the evolution of the status and integration into the healthcare sector, into an active category; the upgrading of wages; and training adapted to the realities of the field and, above all, to the changes in the profession. The Segur of Health is supposed to respond to the crisis and expectations, not create new frustrations. It is time to revalue and recognize this courageous and difficult ambulance profession, now and not later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u151	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u152	Thank you, honourable Member, for referring to the paramedics, a profession that is at the forefront of patient care throughout the year, and which was even more so during the epidemic. I would like to associate myself with the thanks you have expressed. First of all, I would like to point out that it is possible for a private company, as in the case of health carriers, to pay its employees a specific purchasing power premium which is totally exempt from social security and tax charges, both for the employer and for the employee, within the limit of EUR 2000. Its award conditions have been eased in order to be able to reward more specifically the employees mobilized during the crisis. Before the crisis, we had been alerted to the economic difficulties encountered by the companies in the sector and the ministry remains attentive to the representative organizations. Health transport undertakings, as professionals contracted with health insurance, receive assistance from the latter guaranteeing the coverage of their fixed costs, but also State support such as partial unemployment and the payment of daily allowances. I would also like to inform you that work is under way to find ways to offset and cover the additional costs and possible losses incurred by these companies during the crisis. Be convinced, Mr. Member, that the Government is well aware of the commitment of ambulance workers to the service of the French and that it wishes, through these devices, to support companies and their employees, so that they can continue to fulfil their public service mission and their essential role in our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u153	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u154	Mr Secretary of State, you have answered part of my question, the question concerning paramedics in the private sector; the company which employs them must pay them the aid. But you did not answer the second part of my question, which concerns ambulance workers in the public hospital sector. I recalled, they are recognized by a decree that is not related to the hospital public service; They are asked, like hospital fire safety officers, to take another example, to carry out missions that are not the ones for which they are trained. They are putting themselves at risk, including in the exercise of their responsibility. Secretary of State, I understand that you cannot answer anything, but at least take these demands into account in the context of the Segur of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u155	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, to put his question, No. 1074, on the upgrading of the home help profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u156	For several years, I have regularly alerted the Government and the Prime Minister on the situation of home helpers. They often work part-time, are paid to SMIC and sometimes their transportation costs are barely taken into account. Home help associations were on the front line during the crisis, and home helpers left to work the ball in the belly. There are bonuses and pay increases for caregivers: what about home helpers? A bonus was announced, when will it be paid to them? With regard to the revalorisation of remuneration, collective agreements have been under discussion for more than two years now, without any progress. Will these discussions succeed? What order will the increases be? It is, of course, about the health of the elderly whose home helpers are constantly working in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u157	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u158	I would like to thank you for drawing attention to the professionals in home services, who have been very active during the crisis. The Ministry supports them and the orders of 25 March and 15 April 2020 provide a guarantee of funding for home support and accompaniment services – SAAD – whether or not they are tariffed by the department. The signing of the decree specifying the terms of the guarantee of the financing of the SAADs to go through the crisis is imminent. More broadly, it is crucial to address the structural difficulties of this sector. I am thinking of the economic difficulties, but also of the complexities of coordination between accompaniment and care, as well as of the need to recognise the persistence and social importance of these professions. The question of the social utility of this sector was highlighted in the context of the health crisis. Olivier Véran had devoted his first visit as minister to these professionals. In coordination with the Ségur de la Santé, technical work is under way to implement concrete measures to upgrade these professions, drawing in particular on the proposals of Myriam El Khomri's report. The central issue of wage developments will be the subject of specific exchanges with all the players in the sector, a first step being taken with the wage conference which, before the crisis, predicted a wage change of almost 2.7% in 2020. Other levers will also be mobilised, notably through the mobilisation of funding to identify skills to develop and help professionals acquire them – the construction of pathways offers career prospects for home helpers, including in institutions accompanying older people; through actions to combat occupational risks; by increasing the number of new entrants to these occupations. In short, we have a very broad understanding of the problems that have been affecting this sector for many years. In order to achieve the implementation of the measures envisaged, the subjects relating to the attractiveness of the professions of the old age are the subject of regular exchanges with all the partners involved in the sector, with a view to leading to a plan shared and integrated in the broader reflection of the reform of the old age which you know is now on the job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u159	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u160	All this is interesting. I note that a decree is being signed, but what we would like to know exactly is how much and when! This has been dragging on for years! It's the former head of department who's talking to you. Twenty years ago, I was president of the department of the Meuse and we were already talking about these problems of reclamation, which have not improved since. I know that negotiations are under way between the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy and the departments on premiums, but we do not know when it will be concluded. The issue of remuneration is really central. We want to know what means will be mobilised. We will pay close attention to this, which is a real concern for home helpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u161	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor to put his question, No. 1079, concerning students and interns in medicine and health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u162	There were a hundred, there were a thousand, there may have been even more. They were in the second, third, sixth year of medicine and were the first to devote themselves, to mobilize, at the request of the nation, to fill the shortage of staff or to help those who were on the front line. They were soon forgotten. I invite you not to do the same in the context of the Ségur de la santé that you have prepared, and for this reason to read the report of the national association of medical students of France, which states that the status of medical students is precarious. Not all medical students have rich parents, far from it. A long way from there. Do you know how much a non-medical master's student gets? Basically, 3.80 euros net per hour, which is not much already. A fourth-year intern medical student earns 1.29 euro gross per hour! Students in the fourth or fifth year of medicine, who are often already parents, receive 189 euros gross per month – not to mention that the hospital is sometimes a little distant. And not all hospitals have rooms to sleep at night guards, which is as dangerous for caregivers as they are for nurses. Then the students go home after 48 hours without sleeping... Is this all reasonable? No. There is a real precariousness of medical students. We must not be surprised by the lack of vocations: quite frankly, to do ten to twelve years of studies under such conditions... Some students even take 48-hour guards and take an exam the next day! This is absolutely unacceptable. In the context of Secur de la santé, this problem cannot be avoided. All the corporate associations and trade unions of medical students, as well as the national association of medical students of France, are asking you to do something today. The practices I refer to are almost out of the law: there is something to go to court. But they are public service agents!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u163	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u164	Medical interns and students have been heavily mobilized in the context of the health crisis and I like to congratulate you on the involvement they have shown. Many of them volunteered on the hospital front, in medical-social institutions and in city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u165	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u166	From the very beginning of the crisis, we have been careful to ensure that students and interns benefit from the same protective measures as the current staff. The need for supervision by a senior practitioner, despite exceptional circumstances, was recalled. As a precaution, we have cancelled undergraduate medical courses. On the basis of volunteerism, reassignments have been authorized. For example, the voluntary interns have been shown to the regional health associations, which have coordinated the scheme in the various subdivisions. Agreements have been concluded with the reception facilities, which has allowed them to be covered in the event of damage. We have also been vigilant about the risk of professional exhaustion of all students during this period, recalling the need to rely on the workplace health services of the institutions, as well as on the medical-psychological emergency cells, and by creating a national free listening platform. Associative, departmental and ordinal initiatives have also offered many accompanying services, which we have encouraged. With regard to the recognition of the commitment of young professionals, the decree of 14 May introduced an exceptional bonus for students and interns who have participated in crisis management, in the hospital sector as well as in the city medicine sector. As regards the precariousness, the material conditions and the workload of students, the organisations representing the students' interns participate in the consultations of the Ségur launched by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, which will in particular lead to the development of a plan to strengthen the attractiveness of the medical exercise in the hospital – which is at stake, Mr. Moreover, the consultation between these organizations and the ministerial departments had been opened even before the crisis of the covid -19 – which only exacerbated some of the trends already observed – in order to address all these sensitive and important subjects, which will therefore be discussed again during the consultations within the framework of the Ségur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u167	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u168	[[Smile]] I understood it that way. I have chaired a set of these associations and will remain a carabin. I will only hope that the Count of Ségur – Minister Veran! – ensure that Sophie's misfortunes are not those of the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u169	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor to put his question, No. 1072, on the future of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u170	Many young people and their parents ask us, every day, because they are worried about their future: some enter higher education or continue their studies, others are about to start working and seek their first job, but all, admittedly, are faced with little encouraging prospects. What will this new year look like for those who continue their studies? How will the lessons and evaluations be done? How can we cope with the postponements of internships, the lag of the entrance competitions in the big schools, the elimination of summer jobs for many students? For nearly 700000 students at the end of the course, entry into working life will be difficult because the prospects of hiring are delayed and the offers limited. What measures does the Government intend to take to promote their integration in the face of a deteriorated labour market? How can we give them new perspectives? What system of employment aid, what scheme of exemption from employer contributions will encourage companies to recruit young people? Last week, Madam Minister of Labour, you announced a number of measures to promote learning and I welcome that. However, young people furthest from employment, too often without qualifications, will face even more difficulties than before. What measures will be proposed, what human and financial resources will be made available to strengthen their support by local missions and to facilitate their recruitment? We cannot wait until July and the launch of your youth employment plan. I count on you, Madam Minister, and on your colleague in charge of higher education, to do everything possible to ensure that this generation of young people is not sacrificed. Would it not be desirable, for example, to create reactive proximity structures bringing together the prefects, the regions and the departments, which, together, would have the task of helping young people penalized by the crisis of the covid-19? In my constituency and everywhere in France, young people are waiting for concrete answers. They cannot be the adjustment variable of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u171	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u172	We share the same conviction, honourable Member: the economic and social crisis following the health crisis must not lead to the sacrifice of a generation. We must all act so that this generation is not the adjustment variable of the response to the crisis. Not acting would create a risk, because the young people you mention will be the last hired, the last trained. That is why, after consultation with the social partners under the authority of the President of the Republic, we announced on Thursday a first set of measures concerning learning, this path of future and excellence – I know you share this point of view – which must continue to progress after the exceptional increase of 16% observed in February, when the number of apprentices reached nearly 500,000, a historic level. In order to do so, we have decided that aid will be granted to all companies, as many of them would like to continue training young people but face difficulties. The State will therefore cover almost all the salaries and expenses of all young people who will be employed in apprenticeships between 1 July 2020 and 28 February 2021 during the first year. In other words, a bonus of 5000 euros will be granted for the hiring of apprentices under 18 years of age and a bonus of 8000 euros for young people over 18 years of age, from the certificate of professional fitness, CAP, to the professional license. On the other hand, we have extended the duration of contracts. Together with the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Higher Education, we have set up a platform backed by Affelnet and Parcoursup to identify the demand of young people as a whole. Good news, as long as we succeed: the demand for learning explodes among young people, who have understood that this is a way forward, including during the crisis. It is still a matter of mobilising companies, hence the importance of the measures we are taking, and of the measures we will take with the regions, to which the responsibility for the orientation towards the various professions lies. In any case, the learning component is essential: next year we will have to maintain the exceptional level we had reached earlier this year. Secondly, we have also foreseen that young people in the apprenticeship training centre who have not yet found a contract will have no more than three but six months to reinforce their achievements, check their orientation and set foot in the stirrup in order to obtain a contract of employment. Learning is an essential way, but it is not all. That is why the President of the Republic brought together the social partners last Thursday to launch a mobilization to save jobs and skills. He entrusted me with the responsibility of conducting the consultation, which begins this afternoon and is organized into five parts, one of which is specifically concerned with youth employment. How can we ensure that the 750,000 young people who will leave the school and university system this summer have the same chances of hiring as the others? I cannot prejudge the nature of the measures that we will take, as they will be the result of broad consultation, but it goes without saying that youth is one of the main priorities of the recovery plan. We can also mobilise many other mechanisms – I will come back to that – but you are right, honourable Member: we need all the actors and it is on the ground with the prefects, the employment centre, the local missions, the local authorities, the social partners and the professional federations that we will achieve this. This mobilisation is essential to ensure that no job for a young person is lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u173	Mr Erwan Balanant, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1076, concerning the recovery plan and the integration through economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u174	The impact of the crisis we are going through is massive, especially for the most vulnerable. The measures taken by the Government provided initial responses to the emergency. However, the need for assistance and support towards "after" remains crucial and requires the mobilization of all. Companies and integration associations are an essential link in the response because of their expertise, their territorial roots and their profession: they are fully mobilized to help those in need to return to the path of trust, autonomy and work. France has 4000 inclusive social enterprises that produce locally, meet territorial needs, innovate socially and are recognized players in a true ecological and sustainable transition. This wealth must be used, supported and developed as part of a comprehensive economic and social recovery plan. In order to achieve this, it is essential to provide wide-ranging support in order, in particular, to mitigate the increased risk to businesses, which must take account of the fragility of the people they accompany. This support must be immediate in order to cushion the impact of the crisis and meet investment needs in the coming months, so that the rebound is sustainable. In the coming weeks, the Government will implement its essential stimulus plan. Companies and associations of integration through economic activity wish to contribute their expertise in the fight against long-term unemployment and in solidarity economic development. Indeed, the recovery plan must be as inclusive as possible. It is therefore urgent to provide political support to inclusive social enterprises that will participate in the construction of the world based on solidarity and respect for the environment, which we all call for. What measures are you considering, Madam Minister, to make the integration of economic activity one of the pillars of the recovery plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u175	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u176	You are right to insist on this point, honourable Member. Our conviction is long-standing and based on experience: no one is unemployable. To the most vulnerable, we need a footstool, structures that help them get back on their way to work, to regain a rhythm, an activity, a chance, self-confidence, so that they can get to work. This is the whole purpose of enterprises adapted in the field of disability, as well as of enterprises and integration projects through economic activity. As part of the anti-poverty strategy, we have the great ambition to create 100,000 additional reception opportunities by 2022 from 140,000 to 240,000 places in the sector of integration through economic activity and from 40000 to 80000 places in the adapted enterprises, so that more people can gain access to employment through this support mechanism. For the first time in the finance bill for 2020, we have spent more than EUR 1 billion on this project. It is a social investment that the nation makes so that the most vulnerable can access employment. It has proved its worth, since almost half of the people who have passed through the structures concerned are returning to sustainable employment. In the face of the crisis we have been experiencing for three months, the first priority is to protect these jobs and structures. This is why the partial unemployment mechanism has been used extensively in integration enterprises. On the other hand, one of the many orders we have made is a provision to extend the employment contracts from 24 months to 36 months; Without this, some contracts would have expired in the current context, while the labour market is very degraded, and the people concerned would not have been able to bounce back to another job. Some integration structures have done tremendous work of general interest during this period. In particular, they produced several million masks and other services of social utility. In other words, they have not only received aid: they have also contributed to the nation's effort and national solidarity. How to do it in the phase that opens? First of all, we continued the mobilization of the 7,000 companies of the clubs "France, a chance. Companies are committed! I recently met with those in Pas-de-Calais and Rouen – who are ready to continue investing and give their chance to those who, although they are the furthest from employment, also have the potential and the desire to commit themselves, provided that they are given the time and the ability to return to work. On the other hand, as part of the recovery plan, we will certainly take measures to support these integration structures so that they can implement some of the 30 proposals they made a few months ago, which the President of the Republic and I considered valid. Clearly, these structures must be supported not for themselves but because they support the most vulnerable. Finally, opportunities must be created to meet other social needs, in particular the ecological transition. The coming into force of the Circular Economy Act has created a massive need for recycling, and resourcing could provide business opportunities for integration firms. So we will also help them. Once again, no one is unemployable: this must be pursued.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u177	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to raise her question, No. 1068, concerning the employment of young graduates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u178	Young graduates, Minister, will face difficulties in hiring this year. France is severely affected by the economic crisis resulting from the covid-19 epidemic. In 2020, a major recession is to be expected: businesses are already in difficulty, their turnover has plunged during the health crisis and unemployment has increased by more than 22%. In this context, recruitment will be severely limited. Companies will not choose to hire new employees when their economic balance is threatened. As a result of this unfortunate situation, a whole generation entering the labour market will be penalized. After meritorious studies, the 750,000 young people entering the labour market this year will find themselves in a stalemate, without any offer of recruitment. We cannot resign ourselves to the fact that the labour market has only the unemployment to offer to these future workers, especially since youth unemployment has for many years been significantly higher than the national average, which reveals the difficulties that newcomers face in integrating into the labour market. With this crisis, these difficulties are tenfold. It is therefore necessary to consider hiring facilities for young graduates, in particular by offering recruiters advantages. Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we have drawn up concrete proposals for exceptional new arrangements aimed at inserting young graduates and encouraging companies to recruit them. We will present them to you at our June 11 niche. It is necessary to avoid, at any cost, that an entire generation of young graduates be sacrificed as a result of the health crisis. Madam Minister, I have noted the various measures you have taken for learning, which we can only congratulate us on. What measures does the Government intend to take to facilitate the hiring of young graduates? Will you support our bills?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u179	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u180	Youth unemployment has been one of the crucial issues of employment in our country for some 30 years. Young people have always been the most abused. With the skills investment plan and learning reform, we had managed to start reversing the trend. Thus, the youth unemployment rate had been reduced from 21 per cent to 18 per cent: still 18 per cent, but hope was reborn. There were many projects, a dynamic was set in motion. The economic and social crisis obviously threatens this improvement, and that is why we must redouble our action. The current sharp increase in unemployment is not due to redundancies, but to a 40% drop in recruitment. The risk is that this contraction mainly affects young people, of whom 750,000 are going out of the education system, and the most precarious, who are on fixed-term or acting contracts. What to do? It is clear that action is needed, hence the immediate steps we have taken for learning. We are moving forward with the roll-out of the recovery plan because of this urgency. Everyone knows that, even if one can enter learning at any time, the September re-entry remains a landmark and contracts are essentially signed between June and September. We therefore wanted to act without delay: after consultation with the social partners, we announced very strong, unprecedented support measures with the President of the Republic on Thursday. With regard to unqualified young people, we are going to mobilize tirelessly, with the "youth guarantee" accompanied by local missions, the investment plan in skills, second chance schools and institutions for integration into employment – EPIDE: we have the mechanisms, we still need to strengthen them and be present on the ground. As for young graduates, the question is not to train but to find a job. In this context, the consultation which begins this afternoon with the social partners, at the request of the President of the Republic, must be concluded very quickly in order to find the ways and means of our action. With regard to the proposals that you will defend on 11 June, I will not be able to comment until the consultation with the social partners is completed. But it is useful to have this republican debate, because youth will be one of the priorities of the recovery plan. I'm committed to it, because it's essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u181	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u182	Thank you for that answer. Since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, many young people have been looking for learning teachers: your devices are quite recent, so you have to make them known to companies, because too many young people, for example, entering a licence, do not find employers. As you said, it is at this moment that this is happening, because the September re-entry is approaching. Young people benefit from longer periods of time spent in schools, but it is a real problem not to find a licensed employer when they have 36 weeks of internship and 15 or 16 weeks of school. There is a need to facilitate the access of all young people to businesses, which must respond to requests. Take action in favour of all these young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u183	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to put his question, No. 1071, on Franco-German relations during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u184	The coronavirus pandemic has destabilized relations between European states, particularly between France and Germany. The two countries, the founding states and privileged partners of the European integration process, have managed the urgency of the health crisis without any consultation. On the basis of a scientific report placing the Far East in high-risk areas, Germany unilaterally closed its borders, leaving thousands of frontier workers facing new and complex situations: either they were partially unemployed or they were encouraged to stop sickness. Those who have been able, or had to, to continue their activity have lost several hours each day in tatillon checks, carried out at the few open border posts. In addition, most of them were victims of discriminatory remarks and harassment by their German colleagues. With different health strategies, misunderstandings and even hate messages have multiplied. The achievements of the Elysée Treaty and the ambitions of the Aix-la-Chapelle Treaty were shattered. However, we must also note the graceful reception of French patients in German hospitals. Tomorrow, better information and coordination will be essential for our two governments. The economic announcements made by the President of the Republic and the Chancellor in mid-May are a first step, but health cooperation should now be a priority area of work. In North Alsace, the European territorial cooperation group PAMINA has been working there for several years. The European Commission has recently made health cooperation one of its priority objectives. The outcome of such local initiatives would be an example. Madam Secretary of State, what concrete measures do you envisage to restore confidence between the citizens of our two countries and to reaffirm our willingness to share a common future?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u185	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u186	Mr President, you are asking me about a major issue, because France and Germany are the heart of Europe. The Franco-German initiative presented on 18 May by the President of the Republic and Chancellor Merkel regains the spirit of solidarity that has been at the heart of the European project for more than seventy years. Together, we have proposed an ambitious recovery plan, which is based on the issuance of European debt to help the sectors and regions most affected, especially the Great East, by this deadly epidemic. The European Commission has taken up this ambition, with emphasis on European sovereignty, which is a central element of it. Together, we work every day to convince our European partners of the importance of social and economic recovery for all of us. Like you, I am convinced of the importance of the Franco-German engine and of the return of trust. That's why I was last Friday in Moselle and Saarland for my first post-confinement trip: in Petite-Rosselle, Grosbliederstroff and Saarbrücken, I wanted to salute the action of all the people who have incarnated on the ground, against winds and tides, the Franco-German cooperation of the daily. The very strong human, economic and social interdependence between our two countries has been more visible than ever during the health crisis. Of course, the violence of the epidemic first led to retreating reflexes. I want to tell you this very solemnly: we must never again relive this, never at the level of the European Union or that of our two countries. The sudden reappearance of the border was, I know – I saw it, I heard it – very painful, as the human interlocking is dense and so much the physical boundary had become invisible until a few weeks ago. The Government had been on the front line and the President of the Republic had taken very strong initiatives, particularly at the European Council on 10 March, to strengthen European coordination. Very quickly, we organized reciprocal and proportionate controls. We have also ensured that there is never a complete closure of borders. Our objective is that on Monday, 15 June, we will be able to lift all restrictions on movement at the internal borders with Germany and all our European partners, if the health situation permits, as the Prime Minister recently pointed out. In addition, we have worked extensively with Muriel Pénicaud, Bruno Le Maire and Gérald Darmanin to guarantee cross-border workers the same rights as other employees and neutralize the effects of the crisis and the telework imposed on their tax and social systems. The objective is that there is no difference in tax treatment. All these advances have been made possible by a very strong commitment from the local elected representatives whom I wish to welcome here, including the President of the Greater East Region, and from the elected representatives on both sides of the border. In addition, on 23 April I met with my colleague Michael Roth, the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation established by the Treaty of Aachen; I will convene it again tomorrow, because we must build cooperation at all levels. Last Friday, we thanked the German hospitals, particularly the one in Sarrebruck, which have welcomed more than 140 French patients in recent weeks. We thank them for this solidarity and we will develop, as you wish, more ambitious cross-border health cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u187	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to put his question, No. 1084, on the national production of ammunition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u188	"We know how to make Rafale, but we don't have a French manufacture of military powder for small ammunition," Jean-Yves Le Drian explained in 2016. Since 1999 and the abandonment of the national production chain, the situation has not changed. Indeed, France is now tragically dependent on the rest of the world to load a weapon. In July 2019, Mr Joël Barre, General Delegate for Armaments, drew, during a hearing, a trait on the resurrection of a national chain of production of small-calibre ammunition, for economic reasons. In his view, it would not be profitable to invest in national sovereignty. Last October, I asked General Lecointre, Chief of the Armed Staff, about this. He confirmed that France had given up its autonomy in small-calibre ammunition and small arms, and that the Directorate-General for Armaments – DGA – had chosen to devote itself to high-value-added technologies – it is not a burden, I have the deepest respect for the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces. Two weeks later, I was still wandering about the French dependence on foreign ammunition. A change of dogma, particularly American, and all our weaponry would have to be done again. If the new mode were to get rid of the 5.56 mm NATO cartridge, a possibility that had been debated for a long time, the costs would be enormous. However, the United States might want to create new calibres, which is possible thanks to the importance of its internal market. Also, investment in a national production chain seems to me to be most strategic. Barre sees it with the eyes of an engineer and thinks it is unprofitable, without being aware of the risks already present. I reiterate that the added value of this investment is immense. The RUAG Ammotec company, located in my constituency, had considered the establishment of an ammunition assembly plant in eastern France, a project to which DGA has given an end to not receiving. The crisis that we are going through has highlighted the crucial need, from a strategic point of view, for national production. Indeed, "the proper delivery of ammunition can sometimes be called into question by developments in the international context", according to a 2015 report. The provision of masks has shown the relevance of this warning. If we went to war tomorrow, the stockpiles of ammunition would soon be exhausted. And don't talk about European sovereignty: our neighbours wouldn't surrender us! Then what would we do? Would we send our soldiers with shotguns? You know, like me, that when it comes to rifles, the strategy is clearly European, since none of them, with the exception of locked rifles, is supplied by a French manufacturer, since the arms fields and the armory schools have been dismantled. The situation is urgent: Madam Secretary of State, are you going to change your strategy with regard to small arms and small-calibre ammunition, after the crisis of the covid -19?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u189	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u190	Mr Son-Forget, your question is about the possibility of rebuilding a national production chain for small-calibre ammunition. It is true that, since the closure in 1999 of the factory of the company GIAT Industries located in Le Mans, France no longer has any small-calibre ammunition manufacturer for the armies. Moreover, the issue was raised in 2015 as part of a parliamentary fact-finding mission on the ammunition sector. The Ministry of Armed Forces, in its strategic directions, distinguishes small-calibre ammunition from medium- and large-calibre ammunition. As for the former, it is sourced from various industrialists, most of whom are Europeans. Orders are made through competitive bidding from a large number of suppliers. You cited the RUAG company; Our armies have also entered into procurement contracts with many other suppliers, such as the Italian Fiocchi, the British Royal Ordnance Factories and the German Metallwerk. The production of ammunition under economically viable conditions requires very large volumes, which cannot be ensured by national orders alone. Therefore, a project to rebuild such a sector in France would require a positioning on all markets. It would also involve significant investments by the industrial partners concerned. At this stage, such a project has not come into being. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Armed Forces will pay attention to any credible and viable project. The production of medium- and large-calibre ammunition is in another situation. In this area with higher added value, we have chosen to ensure our strategic autonomy. Thus, France has a complete industrial tool, bringing together many companies such as Nexter Munitions, Thales LAS, Eurenco or Étienne Lacroix. At the end of last year, the ministry provided one-time support to the industry, allowing it to spend the year 2020 without losing skills. Mr Son-Forget, you do not want to hear about European sovereignty. But at a time when we are trying to achieve progress on the essential subject of European defence, it seems to me that Europe can be a source of supply of small-calibre ammunition that is sufficiently strong and sustainable. I would not like European sovereignty to be experienced negatively, as your remarks suggest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u191	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard spoke of her question, No 1066, concerning the resumption of activities in the textile recovery sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u192	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to draw your attention to the resumption of activity in the textile recovery sector, in the context of the health crisis that we are experiencing. Indeed, while the companies in the sector, whether specialised in the collection or recycling and re-use of textiles, have partially resumed their activities since 11 May last, from the beginning of the decoupling, they suffer from a lack of outlets, 80% of which remain blocked, especially for export, without any clear indication of the resumption of international activity. All enterprises collecting and sorting used textiles are affected by this situation, in particular those of the Oise department, which was particularly affected during the health crisis, since containment and protection measures were taken there fifteen days earlier than in the rest of the national territory. It should be recalled that the textile recovery and recycling industry employs more than 3000 employees in France and is a major issue in the field of ecology and sustainable development. The recovery of the industry, in the context of the saturation of the depots, has caused additional burdens due to the overstocking, transport and handling of textiles. Diagnosis is shared by all stakeholders: the industry needs exceptional support to solve the problem in the short and medium term. The support measures envisaged so far are not sufficient to ensure its proper functioning. They do not fully overcome the financial difficulties it faces. Companies in the sector are therefore seeking aid of EUR 50 per ton sorted, which would supplement the EUR 82.5 per ton sorted by the eco-organisation EcoTLC. To provide such additional and exceptional aid until the end of 2020 would ensure the sustainability of jobs in the textile collection and recycling sector, which is essential to the ecology of everyday life, while remaining below the cost of the collected and incinerated tonne, which is estimated at 150 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u193	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u194	Mrs Bureau-Bonnard, thank you for your question. I know how much you're involved in this. As you recalled, waste management was a Government priority during the health crisis caused by the epidemic. I would like to reiterate my appreciation to the players in the sector, who have been very active. Without them, we would have suffered another health crisis, inside the one we were already living. Now that we are gradually emerging from the covid health crisis, the economic recovery is growing and demands that the collection and recycling channels return to a satisfactory level of activity, starting with the broad-based producer-responsibility chains, which are based on the polluter-pays principle. I am aware that certain sectors are facing difficulties. That is why I have asked the two general inspections of my department and that of the finance department to carry out a joint mission, the results of which should answer most of your questions, Member. This mission will be, first of all, to assess the economic consequences of the pandemic on these sectors, which you have pointed out are upset. Secondly, it will have to determine how to support eco-organisms in order to continue to treat waste with unchanged environmental safeguards. I know how much you care about this subject too. Thirdly, this mission must determine what environmental compensation we could expect from support to producers – we do not sign blank cheques. If so, let us even think about how to change the eco-modulations provided for in the law on combating waste and circular economy! In the specific case of the textile sector, a structural constraint is added to the cyclical difficulties resulting from the pandemic. Indeed, it exports many used textiles, blocked by the closure of borders in collectors' warehouses. It is true that the actors in the social and solidarity economy have not been able to continue their activities of re-employment of textiles, and that some of them are experiencing difficulties. Therefore, the development of a textile recycling industry in France is more necessary than ever. It would speed up the development of an industrial and territorial ecology, diversify markets and reduce dependence on exports and our imports of raw materials, thanks to the exploitation of those present in France. It would also constitute a pool of sustainable local jobs. Undoubtedly, the social and solidarity economy is one of the pillars of regaining our economic and social sovereignty. That is why I have asked several eco-organisations to study the solutions for relaunching the sector's activity, together with the sorting operators and the local and regional authorities. Together, collectively, within the framework of the mission that I mentioned earlier, and thanks to the work that I entrusted to eco-organisms, in particular EcoTLC, and to sorting operators, we will find very concrete solutions to speed up and sustain the development of this sector, which has a vital role to play in France. Mrs Bureau-Bonnard, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1229.u195	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on "How have sincerity and the restoration of public finances since 2017 promoted support for the economy in the crisis of the Covid-19? "; Questions on the evaluation of the law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos. The meeting is adjourned.
