ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to justice (No 3399, Annex 29; No 3404, Volumes III and IV). Mr Patrick Hetzel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u3	In 2021, the "Justice" mission will benefit from just over €12 billion in commitment authorisations and €10 billion in payment appropriations. The finance bill for 2021 respects the fiscal trajectory provided for by the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice, unlike last year's: the finance law for 2020 provided for a budget of 115 million less than this programming, yet adopted a few weeks earlier. This increase is therefore nothing more than a catch-up budget, despite what the Minister of Justice wants us to believe. Still, the finance bill provides for an additional 1500 FTEs – full-time equivalents – of jobs, slightly exceeding the figure in the programming law. The Government also announced its desire to strengthen community justice. All of the Mission's programs also see progress in terms of human and budgetary resources. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of a public policy is not only due to the importance of the appropriations and the jobs available to it. However, this increase in resources must be accompanied by a significant improvement in the performance of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the way in which these resources are actually allocated and deployed. As such, there are three areas of major concern that need to be addressed. First of all, with regard to judicial justice, the budgetary blue confirms the extension of the time limits for the courts to try them. Unfortunately, it is not a surprise: I have been drawing your attention to this subject for several years. More than ever before, it is essential and urgent that the Ministry fully seize the means it has been given in order to reduce the congestion in our country's jurisdictions. Secondly, the prison administration is entrusted with 4.3 billion in payment appropriations and 6.3 billion in commitment authorizations. It is, of course, a matter of continuing the plan to create 15,000 new prison places by 2027, of which 7,000 by 2022. Again, however, it is not just a question of means. The recent fiscal years have shown that the Ministry of Justice is struggling to consume the full amount of money earmarked for its real estate investments. It is therefore first and foremost the management of the prison plan that needs to be improved. I am not the only one who has doubts about this. The General Secretariat for Investment, the SGPI, which evaluates major investment projects on behalf of the Government, has issued a reserved opinion on the implementation of this plan – you have of course: a reserved opinion, which is extremely rare. All this is worrying and reflects a certain setback in the fight against prison overcrowding. Lastly, with regard to the strengthening of community justice, the Government had announced 200 million and 950 key jobs to combat daily crime and bring justice closer to the people. The measure is welcome: the Republicans and I had defended this line during the review of the programming bill. However, these means must be put at the service of real local justice. This implies the assignment of at least one new magistrate in each court, to combat the tendency to distance justice from rural areas and to ensure the presence of a full-time investigating judge in each court, which is not the case today, Mr. There is no assurance that these measures will be taken. The Government will have to commit itself to this, otherwise the word of the State will be called into question. I would now like to ask you, Minister, four specific questions. Can you tell the national representative what the vacancy rate among the clerks is today; in prison wardens; to which the announced increase in legal aid will be directed; If you consider that the increase in the appropriations of the prison plan is sustainable, who has already fallen behind? The answer to these questions will reveal whether the Government is meeting. In conclusion, I would stress that, contrary to what some gazettes write, there is no Dupond-Moretti effect on the budget of the Justice Mission. The alert points are important enough for me to be forced to suggest a vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u4	I call Mr Bruno Questel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic. In addition, Mr Questel replaced Mrs Laetitia Avia, also draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, who cannot be present with us this morning. That is why he will have ten minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u5	Minister, we consider that there is a Dupond-Moretti effect, and we thank you for your presence on these benches. The Law Committee has issued a favourable opinion on the appropriations of the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people – PJJ – for 2021. The increase in the human and material resources made available to them reflects the significant budgetary efforts that have been made, for the fourth year in a row, in favour of these two administrations. It can always be regretted that these efforts are not even more important, that they are not distributed like this or like this between the various programmes; But we have to admit that they haven't had an equivalent in twenty-five years. The appropriations under programme 107, "Correctional Service", amount to €4267 million in payment appropriations for 2021, an increase of 7.8%. In concrete terms, 308 million more than in 2020 will be allocated to this budget. Program 182, "Judicial Protection of Youth", saw an increase of 5.6 per cent, or an additional 33 million. These increases attest to the importance we attach to these two administrations: we all know that they face particular difficulties and considerable challenges, particularly in the context of the ongoing reforms. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] I would also like to take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that these appropriations are being examined at the sitting to pay tribute to the prison staff and to those in the area of judicial protection for young people, who are demonstrating a firm commitment in their daily work. It is indeed their admirable dedication that has enabled us, since the beginning of the health crisis, to maintain a humane and effective public service. We must give them the means to pursue their missions under the best possible conditions, which are essential to the proper management of crime in our country. Last year, the prison administration was already a high priority of the Ministry of Justice, with the creation of 1,000 jobs, the increase of 83 million in real estate investment credits for construction and maintenance, and the strengthening of security and reintegration capacities. This year, 1,092 jobs will be created, and the real estate programme is growing by 163 million. As for the judicial protection of young people, this year it will receive 40 additional jobs; 20 million will be allocated to develop the possibilities for rapid criminal response, dear to the Minister, within the framework of the guidelines on community justice. With a view to improving the quality of care for minors, this new budgetary effort will contribute to the implementation of the reform of the juvenile criminal justice system, which we will soon have to discuss. As draftsman of these appropriations for the fourth year in a row, I wanted to pay particular attention this year to the problem of prison overcrowding. On the one hand, it impedes the proper conditions for the imprisonment of prisoners and, on the other hand, the good working conditions of prison staff. It has serious consequences: a deterioration in the relationship between staff and detainees, leading to an increase in tensions and the risk of violence; Deteriorating material conditions of detention, conditions for the provision of care to detained persons, access to rehabilitation facilities; degradation of relationships with the outside world. Three points deserve to be stressed. First, in the context of a health crisis related to the covid-19 epidemic, this overpopulation has decreased amply: the occupancy rate has increased from 116 per cent to 106 per cent on 1 October. This crisis therefore shows us that progress can be made in this area: I hope that we can seize this opportunity to improve conditions of detention and ensure respect for the dignity of detained persons. Secondly, we must refrain from interpreting the real estate programme aimed at creating 15,000 places as expressing a desire to incarcerate more, when it reveals a desire to better incarcerate. I would also like to draw your attention, Minister, to the importance of providing in this context conditions of detention more adapted to specific situations, be they radicalized prisoners or those whose health requires the development of cells. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Third, overpopulation is of particular concern in some ultramarine facilities. Mr Minister, you told us in committee that the funds allocated to this programme would allow the delivery in 2021 of the Koné prison in New Caledonia: this is encouraging news. We must, collectively, be vigilant about the evolution of these situations. I will now give you a fair reading of the speech to be delivered by Mrs.Laetitia Avia: "Justice has been the poor parent of the budget for too long. All those who, like us, are deeply attached to it, to the values it conveys, to the rights it protects, can only regret it. "A short time after taking up your duties in July, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you committed yourself to providing justice with an exceptional budget, thus generating a real expectation in both the judicial and the political world. You were expected at the turn; You have been able to keep your promise, because the budget that you are presenting to us today does indeed foresee a historic increase of 8.2 billion euros, or 8%, and the creation of 2450 FTEs. Far beyond the previous increases, far beyond catching up with the delay in the programming law, you are now proposing double the increase we adopted in 2017. "In reviewing the programming bill, we adopted a fiscal path that we felt was essential for justice to return to its effectiveness. We found that the functioning of the judiciary raised questions: less availability, less proximity to litigants, too small staff, too limited resources. This finding is shared by all, litigants and legal professionals; You yourself, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, have done so many times. The containment regime we have experienced, which we find today, is only intensifying this questioning: the increase in the inventory of litigation cases makes it difficult for this public service to continue and further undermines the confidence of the litigants in the institution. "To rebuild this relationship of trust and defend the effectiveness of our justice, we need an exceptional budgetary effort, a combat budget. That's the one you're introducing. It responds to the expectations of our fellow citizens, to the call of national representation for several years, to the concerns of the actors of the justice system; It responds to those who, in this House, doubted your initial commitment, and who are now pretending to see it as a catch-up, even though they are contradicted by arithmetical evidence. "Minister, you have given this budget a high priority: to strengthen the means of community justice. We can only join it. Small crime is indeed at the heart of the concerns of our fellow citizens; They witness it every day, in the street, in the subway, at the door of their building. An additional €200 million will be allocated to local justice, which will benefit from an unprecedented recruitment plan of 950 FTEs. This increase will not only strengthen sanctions, but also prevent: better support, better control, to better protect. "I would also like to welcome the budgetary effort towards legal aid: an additional 55 million, with a revalued fee for lawyers. Exchanges continue with the profession around the scheme, which must in particular achieve the objectives of Dominique Perben's report on the future of the profession of lawyer, as well as the information report on legal aid due to Naïma Moutchou and Philippe Gosselin. Again, I welcome this approach. With regard to legal aid and access to rights, the issue is not only "how much", but also "how". Let us not forget this point, which has been dealt with at length in the reports I have just mentioned. Without an in-depth reform of legal aid, as well as the financial and operational contribution of everyone to the public service of justice, no budgetary increase will be sufficient. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u7	"Finally, I wanted to devote my budget report to the digital transformation of justice, a key issue if we really want to bring justice into the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u8	"In the Committee on Laws, I made an unglorious but encouraging observation of this transformation, and presented six directions to carry it out: putting the emphasis on digital equipment; use digital to improve the fluidity of exchanges between actors; define priorities in the development of large digital projects; complete the dematerialisation of legal aid; ensure the implementation of the provisions of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, namely digital mediation, online complaint and the single court for the treatment of orders for payment; Finally, to involve Parliament more closely in the implementation and monitoring of these projects. I welcome the commitments made by Mr. Keeper of the Seals, in particular on this last point. It is together, and with the wealth of information coming from the ground, that we will succeed in bringing to fruition the ambitious project we are voting on in Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] "The appropriations for the "Justice" mission that we are about to vote are tomorrow's justice budget – a justice that is better equipped, more functional, closer to the people, more efficient, faster and connected, in which a better distribution of tasks and reinforcements will allow our magistrates to devote their time to their essential function: to judge. It is a budget which, I hope, will be unanimous among us and will convince in particular those who, a year ago, deplored a law of programming that was too timid: it is twice what was proposed to us today. We will therefore vote on this budget and we will applaud it with both hands. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u9	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u10	To study a mission's budget is not only to align figures, but also to analyse them and put them in perspective. When we read the Justice budget for 2021, we see, of course, an increase in appropriations of almost 8 per cent. We also note that their amount – EUR 8.2 billion – is actually 200 million higher than the amount voted under the 2018-2022 programming law. However, these figures should be placed in the overall context of chronic under-budgeting of the public service of justice. While the programming law provided for EUR 8 billion for 2021, a delay of EUR 115 million was recorded in 2020. It cannot therefore be denied that the amount proposed today is less an increase than a catch-up. On the other hand, the fiscal trajectory for the next few years will be interesting to observe: if the appropriations voted in the programming law are again exceeded in the finance bill, then we can really talk about a "Eric Dupond-Moretti effect"... At the time of the vote on the programming law, the UDI and Independent Group had already stressed the inadequacy of the appropriations envisaged and proposed more ambitious programming. We cannot therefore be satisfied with the budget that you are proposing today, especially since the funds allocated to the prison administration absorb a large part of the overall budget increase, to the detriment of the needs of the judiciary – even though we are well aware of the delay in the construction of new places. While we welcome the arrival of new legal assistants and legal assistants to support the work of magistrates, we regret that they are not the focus of the main recruitment effort – fifty will be recruited this year, compared to one hundred last year. The use of Honorary or Temporary Magistrates also demonstrates that the Government is seeking, in this period, to adapt justice to the lack of resources. In any event, it is satisfactory that no judicial office is currently vacant. With regard to access to the law, we see little change; the budget concerned is even in decline. Yet you have made access to justice one of your priorities, Minister. We have read the Government's amendment on legal aid and take note of the efforts made, but lawyers point out that they will be insufficient – in particular, the unit of value used to calculate the fee paid to the lawyer is too low. In addition to these recurrent and structural difficulties, there are the cyclical difficulties linked to the health crisis, the resurgence of the terrorist threat and the announcement of new reforms, which lead to a growing demand for justice. However, we are concerned that neither the former nor the latter are sufficiently taken into account. We hope that the budget for 2021 will be well implemented, because there is no point in announcing additional means if, in the end, the appropriations are not consumed in full. On the other hand, the few developments that can be observed this year appear to be minimal in view of what still remains to be achieved if justice is to be more effective, comprehensible and readable for our citizens. Funding for justice is still not commensurate with actual needs. Their share in the state budget – barely 3% – is not evolving and does not reflect the place that this institution should occupy in our democracy. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you sometimes say you know justice intimately. You therefore know its suffering and its numerous dysfunctions, due to its subjection to budgetary constraints. You will understand, in these circumstances, that the members of the IDU and independent group do not associate themselves with a budget which, in their view, is not yet in a position to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u11	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u12	After regularly monitoring the justice budget for about ten years and then moving away from it in recent times, I come back this morning on behalf of my group to take a fresh look at it. I know that a well-respected tradition in this chamber, the majority after the majority, is to welcome the changes in his ministry's budget. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you did not fail this tradition, congratulating you in all circumstances on a budget presented as historical. I am sure that at other times, on the other side of the bar, you may have been less enthusiastic, suffering from the slowness of the investigation and hearing of certain cases, or the rendering of decisions. Let this not hold; I do not want to reduce your enthusiasm, or that of our draftsmen. Because we have all been auxiliaries of justice, we know that justice continues to suffer from the time that passes between the vote on the budget and its execution, a vice that has been gnawing at it forever. This delay contributes to the prolongation of procedures. It is true that when the judiciary is finally fully staffed, it is the clerks who are missing; This is what the first president of the Court of Appeal of Poitiers was able to see when she was set up a few days ago. Sometimes it is the Ministry of Finance that gets involved in setting aside certain appropriations once the budget has been voted. Jean-Jacques Urvoas, chairman of the commission of the laws which became the guardian of the seals, had made it the bitter discovery when he arrived in Vendôme Square. The flight forward – albeit forced – that marks the current fiscal practice exposes us more than ever to this type of risk. Mr Keeper of the Seals, I invite you to be vigilant if you do not want your enthusiasm to fall back at the end of next year. Many increases are displayed; they are the corollary of the implementation of the law of 23 March 2019 of programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice. Finally, nothing more normal than to give means to an ambition; the opposite would have been blamed for you. What is the priority to be rejoiced about? Like you, I support major developments in the sentencing policy, which encourages alternatives to imprisonment and limits short-term custodial sentences, which are the most desocializing. I also support the guidelines on community justice, including the use of prosecutors' delegates, which you plan to speed up next year. These measures are in the right direction. While the sanction may appear to be restorative to victims, it does not necessarily guarantee the absence of recidivism. On the other hand, its threat is more often dissuasive to the primary offender, especially in the case of minor acts. With regard to the programme on the judicial protection of young people – a subject to which I am particularly sensitive – the Ministry last year drew up a national strategic plan which should take account of many developments: the reform of the 1945 Ordinance, the programming law, the reform of the State and its administrations. I note that it is sometimes very difficult for a magistrate to impose the appropriate sanction against a minor given the places available in the reception facilities of the region. Having recently visited a juvenile institution, and myself chairing a structure of the authorized voluntary sector that runs two closed educational centres, one in the south-west and the other in the south-east, I can measure how difficult it is to adequately meet the expectations of the justice system when the placement of a young person is carried out only by default. It is the whole organization of the centre that is then upset, sometimes leading to unwarranted value judgments on this type of establishment – to which I personally believe. Because we know that tomorrow's woes are written in prisons, we need to pay the utmost attention to the situation of juvenile offenders and avoid them from doing so. I know, minister, that you have made reducing the prison population a priority of your policy. I agree with you on this point – even though this has always seemed to me to be in contradiction with the construction of new prison places. In French prisons, especially in detention centres, we can observe unbearable situations for both prisoners and prison staff. The implementation of the overseas real estate programme, to which priority had been given, was an urgent matter for the dignity of detainees. The same applies to support structures for exit, which are essential to prepare for reintegration. However, it is necessary for enforcement judges to appreciate its importance, which unfortunately is not always the case. You will see, Mr Minister, that the remarks made by the Libertés et Territoires Group are not just budgetary. They also concern the meaning that we must give to justice. However, my assessment of the appropriations for this mission is positive and I hope, in conclusion, that the commitment authorisations will be translated very quickly into payment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u13	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u14	The Government prides itself on a historic increase in the justice budget for 2021, with an 8 per cent increase in appropriations. In fact, the figures show an increase of about 6% between 2020 and 2021. In addition, the budget increase mainly finances repressive justice, to the detriment of reintegration, and precarious recruitment, which does not meet the demands of justice personnel. This is illustrated by the example of programme 182 on the judicial protection of young people: the construction of closed educational centres is continuing, while they are denounced structures, an anti-chambers of the prison according to the International Prison Observatory. As regards the open environment on the other hand, only EUR 3 million is allocated to the financing of training and integration measures for young people – an amount to be compared to the 2.8 million planned for the maintenance of the computer fleet and the 3.8 million earmarked for the maintenance of the car fleet. The same fiscal policy applies to the prison administration: more prison to the detriment of reintegration. Thus, the sharp increase in real estate loans is in keeping with the programming law, which provided for the creation of an additional 15,000 prison places by 2027, while the very small increase in funds allocated for the prevention of recidivism and the reintegration of persons in the hands of the judiciary clearly demonstrates the Government's real priority in this area. Beyond these examples, the state of justice in our country today should call for less self-satisfaction on the part of the Government. According to an October 2018 report by the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice – CEPEJ – which reports to the Council of Europe, France spent only €68 per inhabitant on justice when Germany spent 128. France is ranked thirty-seventh out of forty-one in terms of the justice budget in relation to GDP, with four times fewer prosecutors than the European average – 2.9 per 100,000 inhabitants – while between 2016 and 2018 the average increased in Europe from 11.3 to 11.7. There are also 2.2 times fewer judges and 2 times fewer registry staff. In 2018, France's budgetary efforts were not yet significant enough in terms of its wealth: in reality, the budget would have to reach EUR 14 billion, far from the EUR 8 billion planned out of special allocation account "pensions. The account is definitely not there. What is more, it is important to know what this budget will be invested in. Prime Minister Jean Castex had promised, in his policy speech, to provide the territories with local judges. In the end, there are no new judges, but simply precarious positions designed to strengthen local criminal justice. Why not recruit more magistrates and magistrates? This budget is only fifty more, compared to a hundred last year. From our point of view, community justice cannot be strengthened with legal assistants, as they are often doctoral students residing in urban centres, who assist in research and decision-making, but do not have the discretion and prerogatives of the magistrates. These statutory staff must also be trained better and more regularly, and the justice budget must respond to this need, as requested by institutions such as the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH), which called for the creation of anti-discrimination poles in prosecutors' offices in order to enable more effective action, a proposal that the Government and its majority have always rejected, in particular by rejecting, last year, our amendments in this direction. Judges need to be more numerous and better trained, as well as registry staff, for genuine community justice to serve the population. Unfortunately, this is far from being the case, which is why we are not satisfied with the budget presented to us and we will not support it – but we will propose amendments in the hope of improving it a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u15	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u16	By raising the budget of justice to 8,2 billion euros, the Government respects the provisions passed by Parliament during the review of the law on the programming of justice...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u18	...what we welcome, because this is never guaranteed, as we saw last year. Yet, everyone here measures the place of justice in a society under high tension. This budget is encouraging if we compare it to the chronic structural underinvestment to which justice has been subjected for many years. I take it as a very first step in the necessary catching-up of the massive investment that justice needs. The figures illustrate this situation of misdemeanour, which has a strong impact on the exercise of our justice and on the working conditions of the staff who carry it on a daily basis, which I would like to welcome. France spends less than 66 euros per year and per capita on its judicial system, while Germany spends 122 euros and Austria 107 euros. Of the 66 euros devoted by our country to justice, only 48 euros are dedicated to the courts, and France still has twice as many judges as the European average per 100,000 inhabitants. This under-investment leads to delays in dealing with cases that are far too long, misunderstanding on the part of the litigants and a profound ill-being of the actors and actors of the justice system. The increasingly important recourse to immediate appearances cannot be the solution to the congestion of the courts, as it is likely to undermine the quality of justice rendered. As France begins its second period of confinement, it should be recalled that the functioning of justice during the first confinement has rightly raised many issues. While most of the civil litigation was discontinued during this period, the criminal litigation was maintained, but deeply weakened, and the guarantees granted to litigants were weakened. Single judge, videoconference hearings, proceedings without hearing and judgements in the absence of the accused or the detained person for lack of extraction: the continued use of these exceptional procedures implemented by order cannot be justified for reasons of managerial logic or the desire to reduce stocks. Similarly, it is unacceptable that criminal courts should be extended widely, where assize courts are the most engulfed. Respect for procedural guarantees must prevail in the interests of the litigants, judicial life must continue during this period of crisis with appropriate and important means, in order to ensure the functioning of human justice and the protection of freedoms and rights. Minister, unlike previous years, the budget increase is not only dedicated to the prison administration – which, however, needs to be strengthened, especially in human resources. The hiring of an additional 2,450 staff, of which I am pleased, must also be the first step towards a massive increase in the number of staff, particularly with regard to judges and clerks, as well as the ongoing catch-up at the Bobigny Court, which I encourage you to pursue. As far as prison policy is concerned, I would like to point out that we have built more than 30,000 prison places in 25 years and that 15,000 are under construction. If this is necessary and essential, the more we build, the more we incarcerate, and the overcrowding remains very high. At the same time, the rate of recidivism, which is very high in our country, does not decrease, and the conditions of detention remain unworthy. As a result, we are regularly challenged by international bodies. According to a report by the Council of Europe, France is the only European country with an increasing number of detainees. The principle of individual confinement is enshrined in the Criminal Code, but its application has been repeatedly rejected because the State has failed to provide itself with the means to achieve the objectives set by parliamentarians. Finally, with regard to juvenile justice, the GDR Group continues to call for the abandonment of the juvenile criminal justice code and the reopening of consultation and a genuine parliamentary debate. I wish to reiterate here the primacy of education over repression: a juvenile offender is a juvenile at risk, and the criminal justice of minors must be seen as part of a continuum with child protection. Despite these important reservations about policy, the GDR Group sees this budget as a first step forward, which will have to be implemented year after year to correct the very difficult situation we are facing. This budget will have to be accompanied by an ambitious policy, which will be coordinated with the judiciary. With all these reservations and requirements, the GDR Group will vote in favour of the Justice Mission appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u19	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u20	Since 2017, with the support of the majority, the Ministry of Justice has been reforming, modernizing, digitizing and recruiting: in other words, the Ministry is acting, because we have made justice a priority of our mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u21	Before that, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u22	Since 2017, with the support of the majority, all justice budgets have continued to grow. For this penultimate finance bill, you announced, Minister, an unprecedented budget for justice. We are here: with an increase of more than 8%, or an additional €607 million – double the already ambitious programming law – it is indeed a considerable effort that is being made for justice. This effort is all the more remarkable as it is made in times of crisis. For some, this is not enough, and I will not say the opposite, because we all know that the road is still long to catch up with thirty years of structural delay in the functioning of our justice system. However, everyone must agree, since the figures do not lie – still it is necessary to be in good faith to recognize it – that the budget presented to us today by the keeper of seals is historic: this is the largest increase in the budget of justice observed over the past twenty-five years. I think that the whole of the national representation can welcome this, if it does not congratulate you, Minister, who have fought for this budget and who want to put it on a long-term basis, you who have convinced the Prime Minister of the need not only to catch up, but to go further, because you know better than anyone else the state of our jurisdictions. This increase in the budget, which would bring it to €8.2 billion, serves the project that we have been carrying for three years, that of a close, efficient, accessible justice that restores trust. How? First of all, by strengthening human resources: especially in the context of the crisis affecting us, more judges, clerks, prison guards, integration and probation advisers and educators are needed, and in all these areas, 2,450 posts will be created by 2021, 950 of which are about to be filled in order to immediately assist the courts, the prison services and the judicial protection of young people. I would point out that this reinforcement obviously applies to the fight against terrorism that we have undertaken, as has been said in committee. I do not recall what my colleague rapporteur Bruno Questel said very well about the resources granted to the prison administration and to the judicial protection of young people, which show how well the Government is in line with the priorities set by the President of the Republic from the beginning of the quinquennium, namely juvenile justice and the improvement of prison conditions. I also want to say a word about aid to victims, which is increasing by 11%, and about the allocation of EUR 5 million, which will speed up the deployment of electronic and anti-approach bracelets – the first of which were successfully laid in my department of Val d'Oise last week. This mechanism, which is a step forward, is enshrined in the budget before us. I conclude by referring to an inescapable subject, that of legal aid. The attention we need to pay to the most fragile populations must be increased in times of crisis, including access to justice. We are proposing to increase the budget for legal aid by EUR 55 million, which is a significant amount, since it represents 10% of its total budget. Should we go further? I think so, but not just how. I myself recommended it in two reports to which I contributed, where I set the bar at EUR 100 million, and I will not give up on this point. On the other hand, you have convinced me, Mr.Minister, of the method and the consultation that is under way. It is true that this subject cannot progress without lawyers, who are the pillars of access to the law: they must therefore be associated with all the exchanges, with all the necessary contacts, in particular on the major issue of the recasting of the scale – on this point, I know that you have recently heard the National Council of Legal Aid – CNAJ. More broadly, I believe that we must succeed in engaging in dialogue on the future of the profession of lawyer, because this fine profession, as we know, needs it. [[Mrs Caroline Abadie smiles]] In the meantime, with the additional €50 million – an ambitious first step that will bring others – you are implementing the recommendations of the two reports to which I have contributed: I am therefore very subjectively in favour of the Government's amendments that you will submit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Colleagues, while the policies of recent years have failed to address the difficulties of justice, this budget gives it considerable resources. My group will therefore naturally vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u23	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u24	"In our home, education, health, security and justice are accessible to all regardless of the situation": these words are taken from the letter to the French and French, which was addressed to them on 13 January 2018 by Emmanuel Macron, President of the Republic. We are pursuing the same goal, Minister, of a justice that works, that is respected, that is accessible to all without conditions. If we all want it to be reactive, respectable and indisputable, we continue not to give it the means to do so. Your knowledge of the institution and your critical reading of its operation had given rise to hope: a minister who knew, convinced, should finally allow, behind great and beautiful words, there are finally acts. You announced a historic budget, and we found ourselves with an arbitrated budget three years ago and voted two years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u25	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u26	As I have had the opportunity to tell your predecessor, Bercy definitely has the hand, whether or not he is a regal ministry, justice or not. Yes, the budget is on the rise. Yes, it's better than a reduction in the resources allocated to justice. Yes, it will make progress. But is that enough? The answer is no, of course, and you know that. As you yourself told us in committee a few days ago, you would have preferred to present us with a budget of 10 billion, which proves that you know this inadequate budget. No, minister, we would not have preferred you to present us with a budget in deficit. This is impossible since first – and this is a budgetary accounting rule – there is no item relating to revenue to be matched with expenditure, second, the resources made available cannot cover the actual needs: there is indeed a deficit. There is a great deal of concern, insufficient resources, and reforms and other experiments are multiplying, resulting in a budget that had not anticipated them and even less foreseen them. The health crisis has greatly slowed down the judicial process last spring and the reform of the juvenile justice system will generate in its transitional phase more work and a need for staff that had not been envisaged in the programming law. The extension, on a constant basis, of the experiment of the new jurisdiction of the criminal courts will also take over judges, clerks and rooms to the detriment of other activities, including those of the courts of siege which they are supposed to reduce. The fight against domestic violence, which has been declared a national priority, which we can only welcome, will also require, if results are to be achieved, important human and financial resources, particularly for the generalisation of an anti-approximation bracelet, for which nothing has been provided. The justice of proximity which you call of your wishes, and which we wish, will be effective only if you devote resources to it. The same applies to the increase in the number of works of general interest, the supervision of which will be extremely expensive. Our prisons are unworthy, you know, you have kept repeating it correctly. You have to build them, and it's expensive. Access to justice for all, while procedures with compulsory representation by a lawyer are increasing, must be financed precisely to enable all professionals in the right to live with dignity, you know better than anyone else. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You find yourself facing a budget without room for manoeuvre, faced with cornelian choices, and finally faced with a total impossibility of making things change. Minister, this budget was already insufficient in 2018 when it was built, insufficient in 2019 when it was voted: how do you want it to become satisfactory today? The programming law is applied, it's good, but is that reasonable? We don't want to sue the past. There were many reasons for his vote and the determination of the funds to be allocated for the coming years. We will not vote on this budget, not out of distrust, but simply because we cannot find what is not satisfactory. We will not vote for this budget, which shares the same objective as the law on programming for justice that we did not vote for, especially since the shortcomings are even more numerous. That's not reasonable. It is by your side that we will fight for our justice, constantly putting our finger on the imperative necessities attached to it so that it will work well, for all, and not by accommodating the subsidies granted by Bercy. To be satisfied today with the insufficiency is to prepare tomorrows that weep.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u27	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u28	For years, the justice budget had seen such an increase: 8 per cent for 2021. Justice has a dire need for resources and a budget like this is an indispensable prerequisite for effective and humane action that is closest to the people at the heart of the territories. This is a strong and concrete signal for the world of justice and for our fellow citizens. That is why, as Erwan Balanant said in the Law Committee, the Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats welcomes the amount of money allocated to the Ministry of Justice. They must give us the means to fully implement the provisions introduced by the law on the reform of the justice system. They must effectively support the modernisation of the institution, as close as possible to the litigants. In 2021, the Judicial Justice Program will benefit from an increase of 5.2% in payment appropriations and 6.3% in commitment authorities compared to the Finance Act for 2020. This will contribute to the strengthening of community justice, in particular through increased employment in the courts. However, Minister, what about the judges assigned locally to the repression of the small crimes of the daily newspaper, which the Prime Minister announced in his policy statement last July? The effectiveness of community justice is a necessity in each of our territories. The French can no longer cope with this petty crime that gangens not only the neighbourhoods, but also the towns and villages. Incivilities, insults, trafficking, unrest, glorified by social networks, are growing, and our fellow citizens are worried. To provide an immediate judicial response to those who find themselves before the courts is to contribute to a republican reconquest. In this regard, we welcome the additional funding for new projects in the care of victims, such as those dedicated to the development of medical and judicial units or the establishment of units for the care of children at risk, the UAEDs. We wanted to draw your attention, Minister, to juvenile justice. We look forward to the recasting of the 1945 Order. We need to strengthen the means of its implementation. In eight years, the number of cases covered by legal education assistance increased by 52 per cent, while the number of criminal cases involving minors increased by 37 per cent. It would also be interesting to explore the possibility, for placement measures, of providing children with the presence of lawyers, cared for by legal aid, so that their words could be heard. It is important to give this juvenile justice more human resources, be it children's judges or bailiffs, and a greater diversity of solutions to support children. In this regard, we welcome the creation of new places in closed educational centres, the CEFs. The armed arm of the juvenile justice system is the judicial protection of young people. And we would like to welcome the increase of more than 7% in the appropriations of the programme allocated to it and the 40 additional posts it receives. For several years, a process of disengagement of the JJP has been under way in favour of associations with respect to investigative measures or follow-up in an open environment. To ensure proper treatment of youth cases, it is important that they remain present to provide support, particularly in the territories, as this is often the last resort before incarceration. Our prison society is also plagued by many ills: the complex working conditions of prison staff, the guarantors of the enforcement of sentences, especially in small structures, such as the one in my constituency; poor conditions of detention and overcrowding. Of course, the number of prisoners has declined, but for reasons that are not permanent since they are linked to the health crisis: there has been a slowdown in judicial activity during confinement and exceptional arrangements for the release of detainees have been implemented. As the Special Rapporteur has pointed out, with regard to the 2021 forecast, the prison administration anticipates a deterioration in the occupancy rate of the institutions. Therefore it is more necessary than ever to have a voluntary real estate program, adapted to the urgency of needs. It was also essential to finance a criminal policy aimed at preventing recidivism and promoting the reintegration of persons in the hands of justice. Our group welcomes the budget allocated to sentencing arrangements and alternatives to incarceration, including out-of-country placements and electronic surveillance. We wonder, however, about the small increase in appropriations for action to develop the work and vocational training of prisoners. Reintegration also requires the development of activities in detention. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to stress the allocation of EUR 158 million for IT investments. They will contribute to the effective implementation of the major plan for the digital transformation of justice, to guarantee better working conditions for the judiciary and to ensure that our citizens have improved proximity and access to justice services. While our group agrees with this digitisation approach, it does not consider it to be a substitute for the human relationship, which creates an indispensable proximity to the quality of the link between people and the professions of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We will vote for an increase in the budget for justice, which is essential for a thorough reform of the budget and for meeting the expectations of the litigants and those who do justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u29	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u30	Minister, you have announced a historic 8% increase in the justice budget compared to 2020, and we welcome the effort that has been made. It should be noted, however, that the budget for 2020 had been reduced to €7.5 billion and that €7.7 billion had been earmarked for the latter. This increase therefore covers a catch-up, which should be made clear. The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice, in its 2020 report, makes a sad observation for France: it has 3 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with an average of 12.13 in the Member States. Instead of challenging the conclusions of his work, as your predecessors have sometimes done, let us make an additional argument in the defence of a common cause. We are here to support you, Minister, in the quest for very substantial increases in appropriations. We can no longer delay a commitment called for with the necessary words by our friend and colleague Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who is also a great connoisseur of the world of intelligence. Judicial and police resources must be put on the table. The time has come to write a new page for justice before citizens turn away from it completely and because the dismantling of political Islamism, at the heart of our concerns, requires surveillance, reactivity, judicial follow-up, therefore means. This budget will not be enough. The tasks of our democracy are immense, in connection with the digital society that now characterizes us. The monitoring and condemnation of people broadcasting hate speech on social networks, inciting violence, posting private information, thus endangering the people concerned, require, as you said, the minister, judges to manoeuvre and react. The pursuit of what is no longer a matter of freedom of expression requires, in order to preserve the cohesion of our society and guarantee its protection, substantial means which cannot be mobilised in the thickness of a trait. As you have understood, we consider that this budget, like the previous ones, is not up to the fight that awaits us. It is that of an improved functioning of justice as we have known it for years, of that justice which welcomes, which settles disputes between individuals, which judges crimes and crimes, which condemns, locks up or makes the choice of an alternative penalty, which also releases. This civil and criminal justice system, which has been weak for years, and which has shown its difficulties in managing the first confinement, must be the subject of our primary concern, that of parliamentarians and that of the Government, whatever they may be. With these observations made, a few remarks on the budget itself. In the 101 "Access to Law and Justice" programme, which is said to be 10% higher than 2020, legal aid, which is the main part of its actions, shows an increase of 28.5 million, but I confess that I did not understand very well how you arrive at such an amount. I would therefore like you to clarify this point, Minister. With an equivalent gross domestic product, European countries have spent twice as much on legal aid on average. The Government also highlights an increase of more than 7 per cent in the budget allocated to the JJP, but it only translates into an additional 40 FTEs by 2021: how hard it is, Minister, to catch up with such a situation, when the stretch is insufficient. In general terms, in the criminal field, if the alternative to confinement is to be a reality and a success, there is a need to devote a great deal of resources to human resources in order to frame those sentenced to alternative penalties. Consistently, a financial priority should have been given to this welcome, less costly and more effective transition to combat recidivism. The admirable work done by professionals, be they magistrates, clerks, lawyers, prison staff, cannot remedy the shortcomings we know. Beyond budgetary issues, the world of justice will not escape a cultural revolution in which time limits for judgement, responsibility, openness to mutual consideration of the various actors, digitalism and ethics must have their full place. Can we count on you, Minister? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote for the budget of the Justice Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u32	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u33	I have already had the opportunity to express in the Committee on the Laws the sentiments that inspire me in this mission "Justice" of the PLF 2021 whose appropriations for all the programmes are in sharp increase: a feeling of relief first, because the Ministry of Justice and all the actors who depend on it had long awaited a revalorisation of these means; a sense of pride, then, because without being satisfied with the objectives set by the great law of 23 March 2019, this ministry seeks to innovate and adapt to the expectations of society; Finally, a sense of confidence, because it seems to me that all the problems on the ground will finally be solved. The day-to-day justice is on the agenda and this budget will allow us to give us the means to re-design its contours. The Action Together Group will take its full part in this task with a bill to improve the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response. As we know, our public service of justice is not up to a great country like ours. France is one of the least invested in justice in the European Union. The delays in handling both civil and criminal cases are too long. Our prisons are overcrowded and old-fashioned. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR, of 30 January, which condemned our country for inhuman and degrading treatment because of the conditions of detention imposed on the complainant, recalled the structural shortcomings in our management of the prison condition. France ranks third in Europe in terms of prison overcrowding. Yet we know that the prison is desocializing and criminogenic: it breaks more than it raises. It should be noted that 63 per cent of those sentenced to a prison sentence are re-convicted within five years of their release. The objectives are clear: on the one hand, to promote quality justice, delivered within a reasonable time; On the other hand, incarcerate less and in better conditions. Alternatives to prosecution serve these imperatives: they provide a reliable and rapid criminal response to small crimes in everyday life; They help to relieve the congestion of the courts, allowing the magistrates to refocus on their office: to judge – I say judge well, and not to make useless moral lessons to offenders who might, sometimes, have forgotten the reasons for their presence in a court, so long the deadlines for summoning them are long; Finally, they allow punishment without incarceration – given that according to a report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council on the reintegration of detained persons, 46 per cent of the sentences currently being executed are less than one year. While short prison sentences ostracize, and often radicalize small offenders, alternatives to prosecution are a step towards reintegration; They place individual responsibility at the centre of the process. We therefore welcome this historic budget and its guidelines. I would now like to ask you, Mr.Keeper of the Seals, about the prosecutor's delegates and about the work of general interest – TIG. I note that EUR 200 million is spent on community justice. In committee, you indicated that €28 million would be allocated to the services of temporary magistrates, honorary magistrates and prosecutors' delegates. This would raise their total number to 3000, and increase the number of vacations they could take. How many more D.A. delegates will there be? Do you intend to give them new skills? If so, if, as I have read in the press, you intend to make their initial training compulsory by the National School of the Judiciary, what would be the modalities? After alternatives to prosecution, alternative penalties are at the heart of local justice systems: 17 million euros will be spent on methods to speed up and diversify the criminal response. What budget will be allocated specifically to work of general interest? In 2016, they accounted for only 6 per cent of sentences handed down in the national territory. The law of 23 March 2019 greatly facilitated the delivery of these measures. Do you have figures to assess the impact of this on delivery and enforcement? Thank you in advance, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for the answers you will give me. The Agir ensemble group will obviously vote – and enthusiastically – on the appropriations for this mission. In conclusion, I will address to you the words of Marc Aurèle: "May the strength [you] be given to bear what cannot be changed and the courage to change what can be changed, but also the wisdom to distinguish one from the other. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u34	We're done with the interventions of the group spokespersons. The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u35	When I arrived at the Ministry of Justice, I said that it was necessary to expand good practices, eradicate the bad habits of the institution and, of course, give more power to justice. Here we go. Before I answer more specifically to each and every one of you, allow me to present the outline of the justice budget for the year 2021. This is an exceptional budget – and I am not overbidding it. Thanks to you, it will give justice unsurpassed means for more than a quarter of a century, allowing both the catch-up of the law of justice programming, and the financing of the priorities that I affirmed when I took office, the first of which is community justice. [[Smile on various benches]] You say, Mr. Special Rapporteur, that you read gazettes that referred to "the Dupond-Moretti effect". I didn't have the chance to read them – much better, no doubt, for my natural modesty, which would have been put to the test! No need, however, to read gazettes: just look at the numbers. Yes, as I say, this is a historic budget – the qualifier is justified, as this budget has reached an unprecedented level for a quarter of a century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u36	Adhering to a law is not really historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] For the first time in 25 years, the budget for justice is growing by more than 8%, or an additional €607 million and an increase of €200 million over the law on programming and reform for justice, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u38	Well, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u39	In fact, this is more than double the increase voted in 2019 for the current year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u40	Yes, for the current year only!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u41	This is, I repeat, a EUR 200 million increase; If for you, it's nothing, then we don't have the same values! At 8.2 billion euros, this budget is exceptional. It incomparably strengthens the human resources of all the professions of justice. Thus, 1,500 net recruitments will be carried out during the year 2021, 240 more than those provided for in the Justice Programming Act for 2021. In addition, 950 additional jobs, which I obtained in 2020, are already in the process of being filled. In total, this represents an additional 2,450 recruitments and a doubling of the prosecutor's delegates, from 913 to almost 2000. These staff will support transplants, which, I know, still have a vacancy rate of 5% in 2020. There will be no more vacancies for clerks at the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u43	These additional appropriations and reinforcements are particularly welcome in the current context. Very concretely, these are additional means for prison intelligence, for the allocation of places dedicated to radicalized prisoners, as well as for the recruitment and training of specialized officers. I have noted, Mr. Questel, your points of attention concerning prison policy, overcrowding in prisons – on which I also ask Mrs. Goulet – the weight of pre-trial detention and the situation overseas. You have just recalled the challenges posed by overcrowding in prisons with regard to the dignity of prisoners, the capacity to reintegrate and, of course, the security of prisons. This remains an issue, as the number of detainees has continued to increase since the end of confinement: on 15 October, there were 62842 detainees, 20682 accused and 42160 convicted. To deal with prison overcrowding, my work within the Government is twofold. First, we are continuing to build 15,000 prison places. To do this, I need the support of all the elected representatives – and of you in particular, ladies and gentlemen – to convince those who, locally, sometimes have some reluctance to see prisons build on their territory. Secondly, we will develop sentencing arrangements. EUR 17 million is spent in the prison component of community justice, through the development of work of general interest or electronic surveillance. With regard to the weight of pre-trial detention, I would like to mention two new areas of action that I would like to develop: emphasis will be placed on orders of house arrest under electronic supervision, and the scope of house arrest under mobile electronic supervision will be extended. Finally, with regard to the overseas prison issue, we are making significant efforts in New Caledonia, Guadeloupe and Guyana, to name but a few. I come to the access to the law, which you mentioned, Mr Questel, in Mrs Avia's presentation – I would also like to warmly greet her. I share your vision of digital transformation: it is an essential vehicle for modernization. It has been started with the digital transformation plan, is continuing and will be scaled up as part of the recovery plan. To succeed in this transformation, it takes three elements. First of all, we need credits. We therefore propose to include €235 million in operational and investment funding under the 310 programme "Management and governance of justice policy", an increase of 30 million in one year, corresponding to an increase of 13%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u45	Then we need men. That is why, in the same programme, we propose the recruitment of 50 additional jobs. Finally, we need organization, management and project mode – the department's departments are working on it, and I am looking after it personally. Let me mention three major achievements that the Ministry of Justice will carry out in 2021, demonstrating that we are acting both for staff and for litigants and detainees: the court portal will accompany the reform of the dematerialized civil procedure; the legal aid information system will contribute to the modernisation, simplification and dematerialisation of the legal aid system; an experiment of the gate of agents and detainees will begin at the Dijon prison in the third half of 2021. The draft budget supports other reforms, one of which is of particular interest to me, Mrs Moutchou: the reform of legal aid. I will have the opportunity to present an amendment on this subject; It will show that, without delay, the Government draws lessons from the Moutchou-Gosselin and Perben reports, after consultation within the framework of the National Council of Legal Aid. As a first step, EUR 50 million will be put on the table from 1 January 2021, a guarantee of credibility given to the profession of lawyer, in order to initiate the necessary substantive work concerning the future of this profession. Finally, and in order to meet the expectations of Mr. Houbron and Mrs. Goulet and Mrs. Untermaier, I share your desire for close and human justice, which is concerned with the weakest. Because justice guarantees respect for the law in everyday life, it must be accessible to all litigants: it is the whole meaning of local justice. The draft budget offers us unprecedented means to deploy the latter, i.e. 200 million euros and the dangling of 1100 jobs out of the 2450 that I have announced. These recruitments will benefit both the judiciary and the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people. Proximity justice is a massive means of delivering justice more quickly and of quality, of speeding up the execution of sentences, of better caring for prisons, of better accompanying juvenile offenders in order to avoid recidivism. I thank you, Mrs Buffet, for your words, which clearly demonstrate that beyond divides, we can agree on a number of essential things – and justice is one of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We must improve the functioning of justice in general. This is the profound meaning of this budgetary mission, since all the links in the judicial chain will be strengthened in order to achieve the same objectives: to better welcome the justiciable, to judge faster, to better execute the sentences. That is what the French expect from their justice, and that is what I propose you to do by adopting the credits of the "Justice" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u46	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the duration of each question and each answer must not exceed two minutes. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u47	I ask you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, on behalf of my colleague Sophie Auconia, who cannot be present in our Chamber today. You know that the fight against violence against women is of particular interest to her – she has repeatedly demonstrated her commitment to this issue. Today, therefore, she would like to ask you about several issues that depend on the budget of your ministry, in connection with the fight against violence against women. We have voted for many new arrangements, with financial resources now to be combined to ensure the effectiveness of the new legal arsenal. So, what exactly about the deployment of anti-approximation bracelets? You are now providing €4.7 million; Spain, for example, provided for 6 million, while the Government had initially announced more than 5 million. Is the amount provided for in the budget for 2021 sufficient? Do you think that new appropriations will be made available to this scheme with a view to its generalisation? In addition, new legislation such as the anti-approximation bracelet, the consecration of the notion of grip or the creation of the aggravating circumstance of forced suicide lead to a need for increased training of all relevant actors. So, are there any funds for training magistrates and other justice personnel? Finally, what are the means for the provision of care and care for perpetrators of violence? We wish to be informed on all these issues, on which better care for victims and better prevention of violence against women depend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u48	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u49	The fight against violence against women was a major concern for the Government and for the protection of seals in particular. I recently visited Pontoise on the occasion of the laying of the first anti-approximation bracelet – you were able to read in the press, or in the gazettes, as the Special Rapporteur would say, that the first bracelets were laid recently. We are now considering an additional EUR 5 million, which we have already provided for, contrary to what Mr Savignat said earlier, which asked me about this. In addition, 1750 serious danger phones will soon be available – you did not mention them, but I wanted to give you this clarification because this tool helps combat violence against women effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You know that our commitment to this issue is complete. In the context of the good practices I mentioned earlier, I am also extending a system that allows the victim of domestic violence to be immediately and fully cared for, both medically and judicially, psychologically and socially. We're working on it. I will undoubtedly have the honour and pleasure to raise these issues in the near future, because, I repeat, everything that can be done to combat violence against women is a priority for the Government, whose commitment is total.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u50	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u51	I too would like to acknowledge the remarkable work of prison staff, the PJJ and, more generally, the justice system, which, in this difficult year 2020, helped to contain the covid-19 and reduce prison overcrowding. My question is specifically about prison. Along with the continuation of the policy of categorical improvements – more than EUR 29 million will be spent on these measures in 2021 – 5314 places will be delivered or under construction in 2022. So this is a promise that comes true! These exceptional efforts will certainly lead to an improvement not only in the working conditions of the officers, but also in the conditions of detention. However, even if the acquisition of land is secure for 73 per cent of the places, it is necessary to continue to invite the local authorities to work with the Ministry of Justice to continue this prison effort. We must no doubt find additional levers to further encourage local and regional authorities. I would like to present to you a lead, which I will defend by way of an amendment when examining the appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission: I propose to take into account the new places of imprisonment in the framework of the obligations laid down for the municipalities with regard to social housing. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it is difficult not to question you about the continuation of judicial activity during this second confinement. We are very concerned that the delay in the first half of the year cannot be caught, or not quickly enough. It is known that telework is possible for many justice personnel, but not for all – I am thinking in particular of clerks. Justice has shown, if necessary, that it is such public services that cannot be confined, a fortiori when the country is going through such a crisis. My second question is therefore simple, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: what measures are you implementing to increase the health resilience of justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u52	Health resilience? What a concept! I wonder what that means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u53	You did well to come, Mr. Pradie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u54	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u55	First of all, I too would like to pay tribute to the work, seriousness and professionalism of the services of the Ministry of Justice, including the prison administration. In view of the conditions under which the first confinement was applied, we can welcome the fact that there was no major incident in our prisons, contrary to what unfortunately happened in other countries. In the coming weeks, staff will once again have to redouble their efforts. I am sure that the national representation associates itself with my thanks for the past few months and with my encouragement for the coming weeks. For the new period that begins, the entire ministry will of course mobilize, seeking to better reconcile the maintenance of the activity with strict respect for health rules, through five main principles. The first is the maintenance of activity, which is of paramount importance. Contrary to what happened during the first confinement, the courts will be open and will welcome litigants; Similarly, the prison wards will be maintained. That's what I announced to the 84,000 officers in the department. The second principle is the massive development of telework, where it is possible, of course. We will ensure that a significant amount of equipment is made available to staff. More than 4000 computers will be deployed in the prison administration, which will allow the agents to telework – I am thinking in particular of the CPIPs, the prison integration and probation advisers, who work in an open environment. Thirdly, we will ensure that managers are present to assist staff in categories C and B before the courts and services. Fourthly, we will adapt the functioning of the courts to prevent agents from travelling at peak times in major cities and in public transport. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, we will ensure the protection of users and agents by welcoming outsiders in spaces where distancing rules and barrier actions can be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u56	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u57	I will ask a first general question and then a second question on a more specific point, which concerns assistance to victims. In 2018, the Court of Auditors conducted an inquiry into the management of your Ministry's appropriations, at the request of the Chairman of the Finance Committee of our Assembly. The conclusion was that the management of appropriations needed to be thoroughly reviewed. The Court of Auditors referred to inadequacies in the extent of the activities of the courts and in the allocation of resources; It called for the use of an integrated steering tool. What about this recommendation today, when the Ministry of Justice is one of the few that does not have cost accounting? Other proposals were made to allow for a finer budget vision – for example, to provide each appeal court with an operational program budget. As you can see, there is a need for a more fine-tuning of the management of appropriations. We have heard you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, underline the increase in your ministry's appropriations, but we have also heard the Special Rapporteur, Patrick Hetzel, explain that this was above all a catch-up with the law on the programming of justice. Beyond the figures, are you going to put in place a finer management tool for the Ministry of Justice's appropriations, of which we know all the importance, a fortiori in the current context? My second question concerns assistance to victims, a policy aimed at improving the care of victims by providing them with material and psychological support. I want to stress the tremendous work done by victim support associations. The budget you are proposing is €28.8 million for victim assistance in 2021, an increase of 1.7% over 2020. Admittedly, there is an increase, but when compared to the other increases, which are higher and which sometimes have a two-digit rate, it is clear that victim assistance is not a priority for next year. What do you intend to do to strengthen your support for victims' associations, whose work is great?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u58	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u59	Mr Breton, I don't know if you were already here in 2018, but I was far from the chancery. I have read the report of the Court of Auditors and I can tell you that we are working on analytical accounting – I think this will satisfy your legitimate curiosity and your concern. I am quite prepared to associate you with this work: go through my door, and you will see that we are working to overcome the difficulty raised by the Court of Auditors. This seems to me to be very important: the accounts must of course be perfectly transparent. Your question is in the right direction, and I think my answer will satisfy you. With regard to victim assistance, funding has been increasing for more than five years, and this is still the case this year. I would remind you that we are putting in place a number of tools in this area, including the anti-approximation bracelet. I can only reassure you on this issue which, again, is entirely legitimate; I understand that the subject is of concern to you, but I should like to know that it is of equal concern to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u60	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u61	The issue of domestic violence is crucial, for many years and especially in the period we are going through. You know as well as we do, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: the latest figures are very bad and what is expected is quite alarming. We will have the opportunity to come back to the issue of financing the anti-approximation bracelet. You will understand, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that national representation is as demanding as you are on these matters, and that we expect specific answers from you. There is precisely one specific question that you did not answer earlier; So I'm resting her now. At the end of the Grenelle des violences conjugales, the then Prime Minister, Mr.Édouard Philippe, announced that two centres for the reception of perpetrators of violence would be opened in each region of France. Today, we are far from it: only a small handful of centres exist across the country. The budget you have submitted does not include any funding directed towards this objective with a view to opening, at a minimum, one reception centre per region, the best being to open two in accordance with the announcements made at the end of the Grenelle. My question is therefore simple: Mr. keeper of seals, can you tell us what budget will be devoted to the realization of this political announcement, of this promise that should be kept in the coming year?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u62	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u63	I am very surprised, honourable Member, that you asked me the question in these terms. You should know that these centres are financed through associations and that EUR 20 million is spent on them in the budget. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u64	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u65	I would like to take advantage of the examination of this budget, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to make you aware of the conditions for the exercise of justice overseas. I congratulate you on the exceptional resources that will be deployed in the years to come, but I hope that they can also benefit the ultramarine territories. In his recent report, Patrick Lingibé, the French batonier de Guiana, rightly denounces shortcomings in terms of services and access to the law. I would like to point out that the poverty rate is four to eight times higher in overseas countries and that the cost of living is about 40 per cent higher. In addition, given the lower number of lawyers, inequalities in access to the law are increasing. I know that a decree on legal aid and legal aid is being drafted. Can you specify what specific means will be provided to enhance access to law in ultramarine territories? I come to the particular case of Polynesia. As you know, it took fifteen years to create Papeete's land court, whose establishment was voted here in 2014, after which it took three more years to give substance to it; Two more years were needed to bring about the reform of the civil code aimed at adapting it to the specificities of the territory. The means and positions – magistrates, assessors, clerks – must be sustained. Currently, two clerks are temporarily redeployed to other chambers. On the other hand, can you confirm the launch of a competition for entry into the body of the state for the administration of French Polynesia – the CEAPF – in order to recruit about ten clerks? Will the posts of the two magistrates assigned to the land court be maintained?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u66	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u67	The Ministry of Justice has invested heavily overseas, as I recalled in my opening speech. In particular, the report on the overseas justice of the Lingibé stickman presents some avenues for reform in the area of access to the law, and I am obviously very sensitive to it, whether it concerns the consideration of social differences, geographical distance or the importance of legal aid in favour of ultramarine territories. I would like to reassure you, Mrs Sage: the justice of proximity that I defend will fully concern the ultramarine territories – it is obvious, but it must still be recalled. To remedy the dispersal of judicial services and the overoccupation of the current courthouse, the delivery of the judicial city to Papeete is planned in 2025 for an estimated amount of 30 million euros. Funding for this operation is well provided for in the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law. Finally, with regard to the launch of the clerk's competition, I would like to point out that the clerks assigned to Papeete belong to a specific body whose low volumetricity – 48 jobs in 2020 – explains that competitions are not organised every year. However, it is well planned to hold a competition in 2021. We are currently working to amend the decree establishing its general organisation, the nature and programme of the tests and the composition of the jury.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u68	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u69	Justice credits for 2021 are on the rise and are to be welcomed, although they are not enough to fill the backlog of the means of justice that has been accumulated for years. Yes to the recruitment of magistrates, clerks and other officials in the courts and in the prison administration, yes to the local justice system. All this can go in the right direction, on one condition: justice must be done in the name of the people and it has not escaped you that the people no longer believed in the justice of this country, and for cause! Delinquency and crime have increased dramatically. Terrorism thrives inexorably and, although our police forces are doing remarkable work on the ground, justice is not at the right time to ensure the safety of people and property. Lack of means, maybe? Partially! It is also the fault of an ideology, a laxity that reinforces the sense of impunity of criminals and offenders who spoil the lives of honest citizens. Insecurity, Mr. Keeper of Seals, is not a feeling; it is real and is measured every day. The French no longer trust the magistrates and no longer trust you – not only because of your formulas such as "France is not a coupe-grap" or your baby football game, but because they find that penalties are not being applied and inadequate. They see that multi-cidivists with long criminal records like the arm are free to crack over and over again, and nothing is done. They see that hundreds of Islamists are freed. They see that real life does not exist in this country, even for the worst garbage. Where are the sanctions? This is all that is perfectly unbearable for the French – and we understand them. My question is simple, minister: this budget increase is very good, but are you going to change your own software? Are you going to put yourself on the side of the victims rather than the side of the thugs? Will you finally take serious steps to ensure that the offenders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u70	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u71	...the criminals, the terrorists, the Islamists and all those who violate our laws are really condemned and put out of order to harm?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u72	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u73	You're the wrong day, Congressman. Wait for the question-and-answer session of the Government to ask me this question and you will have a firm answer! Today we are talking about the budget. It's probably an opportunity for you – TV – to give us once again your old recipes, your old moons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u74	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Indeed, insecurity exists and I have suggested that we should not add a sense of insecurity – these are the words I have said. As for the throat cutter, it was in a completely different context that I talked about it, but with the opportunism, cynicism, demagogy that characterizes you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u77	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... you took that word back to put it on the unfortunate terrorist attacks we know! That is my answer: today we are talking about the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u78	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u79	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u80	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u81	I call the appropriations of the "Justice" mission, listed in statement B. The draftsman of the opinion, in support of Amendment No. 2004, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u82	The purpose of Mrs Avia's amendment is to create, within the "Justice" mission, a "Digital Transformation of Justice" programme to improve the identification of the Department's resources for this policy. The Committee on Laws has not considered this amendment, but on a personal basis, I am expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u84	I agree with the idea of increasing the visibility of the appropriations devoted to the digital transformation of justice, but I do not believe that the creation of a dedicated programme is the only way to make this development more readable: there are other tools, such as analytical accounting, to monitor budget implementation. I tend to see this as an appeal amendment, and I expect the Government to let us know its position on this matter. As this amendment has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, it is in my personal capacity that I express an unfavorable opinion, not because of an opposition in principle but because the method proposed here differs from what we generally advocate. We will also have the opportunity to come back to these issues, as other colleagues have proposed similar solutions to improve the identification of means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u86	I fully recognize the need to make investment in digital transformation more readable for Parliament. To address this well-identified challenge, the department is committed to developing analytical accounting tools to track projects. The adoption of this amendment, far from improving readability, could complicate the implementation of the ongoing improvements, which are in line with your wishes. The Government is asking you to withdraw this amendment in view of the commitments I have just made before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u87	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1205.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u88	If I may, I will also defend Amendment No 1206, both of which aim to strengthen the financing of the creation of statutory jobs for magistrates and registry staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u89	How about 1208?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u90	No, he'll be presented separately! Indeed, it seems to us – and this is also the opinion of many professionals – that the increase in appropriations for recruitment does not correspond to the needs, especially of these essential staff. The preference for the recruitment of contract staff, on the contrary, contributes, in our view, to the precarization of justice and its trades. That is why we are proposing this transfer of appropriations, which aims to ensure the creation of more permanent jobs. Justice is better done by real public servants than by mere contract workers or precarious assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u92	The amendments you have just defended, Mrs Obono, had already been supported by our colleague Bernalicis in the Finance Committee. He was told that it seemed inappropriate to take the money you need to secure the amendment from the Prison Service program, but I understand that you cannot propose another solution. However, I regret that in the area of community justice, ambitions have been reduced and that, contrary to the announcement made by the Prime Minister in his general policy statement here on 15 July 2020, there is no longer a question of setting up genuine local judges. I recall, as I had argued in the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice, that genuine community justice would require the assignment of at least one new magistrate and one full-time investigating judge to each court. The Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavorable opinion on these two amendments, which it considers to be appeal amendments: since the details of the budget on the number of jobs created are not clear, I hope that the Government will be able to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u94	It seems to me extremely important to make it clear that there has never been a question of creating local judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u95	That was the Prime Minister's speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u96	On the other hand, the provision of legal assistants through this budget will double the number of judgements rendered, which will give judges the time to devote themselves to the most disadvantaged, the poorest: that is the sense of local justice. I am thinking in particular of guardianship or other civil litigation of this nature. I would add, beyond our discussions here, that the allocations provided for in the recovery plan will also enable the judges, who have been relieved of this workload, to go towards the most disadvantaged. The Government therefore gives an unfavorable opinion on these two amendments for the reasons I have just outlined, but also because this budget provides for the creation of 914 jobs that will increase the number of staff to improve the service rendered to the accused.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u97	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u98	I support both of these amendments. I recognize that it is always difficult to reallocate funds from one programme to another, but it is not enough to create jobs as judicial assistants to strengthen the capacity of the justice system to act: I too believe that it requires an increase in the number of magistrates. The report presented last year by the Court of Auditors to the Committee on Finance shows how the Ministry of Justice lacks resources compared to other European countries: France ranks second only in Europe if we consider the level of the justice budget in relation to GDP. Creating judicial assistants is good, but there is a shortage of magistrates, especially in financial justice, whom I know particularly well. Our justice is exsangued in the territories; It does not have the means to work and the means provided for by the programming law will not suffice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u99	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u100	These are indeed appeals amendments, but they are also intended to highlight the fact that we cannot be content with a mere catch-up on the budget made a little "to-do" without really consolidating the means of justice. The creation of 640 additional posts of magistrates and magistrates would make it possible to improve the quality of the judgements rendered, if only by providing the necessary supervision of these assistants. Rather than a rebalancing of resources, it is real job creation that the unions representing the staff of the registry offices are asking for, which is overburdened. This rebalancing of appropriations will not allow to meet the needs of a local justice system, such justice assuming time and means, especially human ones, since a judge does not judge alone but with a team. That is the meaning of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u101	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u102	I would like to make two very quick clarifications. First of all, 596 additional positions, in full-time equivalent, will be created in the registry – that's not nothing, forgive me! On the other hand, Mrs Cariou, my point was not about the legal assistants, but about the legal assistants, who will be 268 more in 2021, or almost two per jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u103	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1208.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u104	It aims, again through an accounting game that is imposed on us by the budgetary year, to strengthen the budgets allocated to the specialised interregional courts – JIRS – in order to enable a real fight against organised crime and financial crime, in particular against drug trafficking. I myself have had the opportunity to meet with magistrates and magistrates who work in these jurisdictions and who report on the difficulty of covering this type of case, which is often lengthy and tedious. It seems to us – and we are not the only ones – that the account is not there. I recall that, in its comments to the JIRS and Specialized Courts Working Group, the Judicial Union observed in May 2019 that "improvements are needed, however, in terms of the means available to JIRS and the PNF [the National Financial Prosecutor's Office]. [...] The caseload of the PNF is now in the order of thirty-two cases per magistrate and most JIRS appear to be very busy". The JIRS included ninety-one prosecutors and prosecutors and seventy-one investigating judges in 2017. It will be agreed that such a workforce is insufficient in view of the importance of the procedures they have to conduct. That is why we are proposing to strengthen this sector, so that we can really fight trafficking and not simply communicate these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u106	We have raised this issue in the Finance Committee. In substance, I fully agree with you that the resources allocated to the JIRS lack clarity. We had also agreed that it would be important for your amendment to be defended at the meeting, as you have just done, so that the Government could clearly justify itself on this point. The Committee on Finance, on the assumption that the creation of new programmes contributes to an increase in the management of appropriations, did not consider it necessary to create a programme entirely dedicated to JIRS. It therefore expressed an unfavorable opinion. That being said, it seems important to me that we hear the Government on this issue, because the stakes are real.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u108	There is no trouble: things are infinitely clear. Courts' endowments are included in those of the courts of appeal. It's no more complicated than that – you mustn't see a wolf everywhere, Mr Special Rapporteur! The JIRS are within the jurisdiction of the courts of appeal, whose endowments provide for the needs of the JIRS. I would also like to point out that the budget for 2021 provides for an increase in appropriations of more than 26% – 26%! – which will enable the efforts of justice to be improved mechanically and materially.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u109	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u110	In his reply to the Special Rapporteur – and not to our amendment – the minister does not deal with the issue at all. What we stress is the inadequacy of catching up: an increase in appropriations is expected, but it is still less than needed. Again, the problem lies in the gap between the needs of the courts and the means allocated to them. You are referring to a general increase of 26%, while our amendment deals with specialised courts. The Government is communicating everything about the fight against drug trafficking: we have been flooded, on social networks, with tweets announcing seizures of three grams of cannabis and a few shit pellets, which are supposed to demonstrate the Government's determination in this regard. It's a little short and it unfortunately confirms our criticisms and fears: beyond the announcement effects, the means devoted to this work – which everyone agrees is a work of lace, tedious, and that it is necessary to considerably strengthen the teams to mount operations – are not enough and your answers do not inform the budgetary debates at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u111	Amendment No 1206 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis has already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u112	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1966 and 1967, which can be presented together. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u113	These amendments, based on difficulties on the ground, are part of the local justice policy and the good practices that you are advocating. The aim is to provide the courts with a budget at their own hands to enable them to communicate, promote their work, support users and carry out the actions they deem necessary to open the judicial world to citizens. The prosecutors and the presidents of the court have told me how useful it would be for them to have a staffing to do so. The latter would remain quite modest, since the request relates to EUR 60000 in Amendment No 1966 and EUR 30000 in the following amendment, which is a withdrawal amendment. To enable these institutions to function in a mature and agile manner, it seems to me very essential that the heads of jurisdiction should be able to use some funds to carry out operations enabling them to act within their perimeters and to amplify the logic of proximity that you want to highlight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u114	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u115	First of all, I would like to make a general comment: parliamentarians play their part, Minister, when they question the Government, especially when they defend amendments to ensure that resources are directed towards certain missions. We understand that as the keeper of the seals, you felt that a certain globalisation of credits is necessary, but everyone is in their role. If we insist on some means, it is because we, as parliamentarians, are alerted on the ground about these issues. With regard to the two amendments tabled by Mrs Untermaier, let us be clear: the Committee on Finance has not examined them and I have to speak in my personal capacity. Having said that, it is clear that, again, the questions asked are legitimate. On the ground, everyone notes that the courts face operational difficulties. You can't ignore them. As soon as Mrs Untermaier and her colleagues are looking for funds to remedy this – up to €600,000 per court for the first amendment and €30000 for the second amendment, which is in decline – I can only issue a favourable opinion in my personal capacity, because they are dealing with a real difficulty. Our colleague Untermaier raises a real question, on which we must obtain the Government's lighting. It is important that you indicate in which direction you want to go because, if speeches are one thing, the actions are another: we would, of course, like your commitments to be followed by actions. In any event, the committee has not voted on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u117	First of all, I want to say that no one here complains about doing their job. You ask me questions, I'll answer you. You're in your role, I hear it; I'm trying to be in mine. Secondly, too precise a shift in budgetary appropriations clearly poses a problem of fungibility and management. However, this is too general a response to satisfy you, Mrs Untermaier, so I will answer you more specifically. Firstly, with regard to the overall resources allocated to the courts for 2021, additional operating allocations are, as you know, proposed to finance actions to strengthen community justice. These very substantial allocations represent more than EUR 200 million for the total expenditure of programme 166, "Judicial Justice". In the area of communication and visibility for litigants, actions have already been initiated by the central administration and are due to continue in 2021. Secondly, with regard to the expenditure circuit, the distribution of the means of operation of the courts obtained under the finance law – described in Action 06, "Support" – is made, within each operational programme budget, between the courts of appeal. Within this framework, each court has funds to cover, inter alia, local needs. As part of current operating expenses – non-real estate – each court consumes an average of €610,000 each year, in addition to the resources programmed at the scale of appeal courts. The adoption of these amendments – of which I agree, to reassure the Special Rapporteur, that they are perfectly legitimate – would therefore not better meet the stated objective than the allocation of the budget proposed in this bill. The Government therefore expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u118	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u119	How complicated the public debate on the budget is, in the end! Either we make targeted requests and we are opposed to their already being met, or we are forced to amplify certain appropriations to finance the measures desired. Perhaps we should draw collectively the conclusions of this gribouille work that we are forced to do. Containment showed that some jurisdictions were not able to purchase a computer for a clerk who lacked it. I found, in my constituency, that while we had developed good practices by creating a SAUJ – the single action service of the justiciable – relocated to Louhans to allow exchanges between this sub-prefecture, whose court of jurisdiction has been abolished, and the Chalon-sur-Saône court, we had to imagine absolutely extraordinary devices to provide a computer to the person responsible for providing this service. That is what I wanted to make with these amendments, Minister. I am not sure that a centralization of the system is really useful: on the contrary, it seems to me preferable to trust the heads of jurisdiction in order to lead the action of justice in the territories. The lack of targeting of funds dedicated to communication and outreach does not necessarily seem relevant to me, as such targeting would be a manifestation of confidence in and accountability to the heads of jurisdiction. That is why I maintain these amendments. I hope they are satisfied, as you say, but I believe that you should make progress in this direction: it is incredible that the courts do not have, in 2021, 20,000 euros to spend as they please to overcome major difficulties or to make urgent communication, without having to refer them to the Court of Appeal or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u120	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u121	Mr Minister, for four years we have seen, from budget implementation notes to budget implementation notes, the under-executions of the justice budget. The increase in appropriations you are announcing for 2021 corresponds in large part to the catching-up of successive sub-executions. The reality before you is that of the justice of the territories. What I observe in the Meuse department is a jurisdiction that works with software that is incompatible with the technologies available in the 21st century; These are premises which have not evolved since the 1950s or 1960s, which are not accessible to persons with disabilities and which do not allow for the care of children when juvenile justice is rendered or when parents are heard by the judge. I can multiply the examples: you know this reality. But what you don't know is that every year, since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have been increasing the budgets of justice here and that we have been under-executed every time: your department has not applied the law passed by Parliament. That is why Mrs Untermaier wants to change the appropriations: to guide spending in a finer way. I think she's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u122	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u123	We must restore a truth: you have been hammering since the beginning of the morning, colleagues in the opposition, that all these credits are only catch-up. That is partly true, and of course the Special Rapporteur is right to say that this budget is EUR 115 million lower than the trajectory provided for in the programming law 2018-2022; But I would remind you that the budget for this mission is increasing by 607 million euros! There is certainly a catch-up share, and fortunately, but also an increase share, corresponding to additional resources. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] With regard to Mrs Untermaier's amendments, they would be justified if there were no additional money for courts and local justice – more than 200 million euros, it's not nothing. And then I do not believe in a flat-rate allocation per jurisdiction across the country, whether it is 60000 euros or 30000 euros. I am more in favour of more flexibility in the allocation of resources at the local level, as the heads of the courts must see more room for manoeuvre in the budgetary management of their courts. It is on this point that we must make progress, and that was one of the proposals in Didier Paris's report at the end of the committee of inquiry on the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, chaired by our other colleague, Ugo Bernalicis. To provide for an overall allocation, thus blindly, would not serve the territories: rather, it is necessary to layer the allocations on the difficulties encountered by each jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the letter of our Rules of Procedure – which provides for an expression for and an expression against the amendment – on which I will have some flexibility here, I would remind you that we are constrained by the deadlines set by the agenda. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u125	Thank you, Mr. President, for your kindness. I have said at the outset that our group will vote on this budget, which is not so common on the part of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u127	...and I have no controversial intention here. It was not I who took the idea of allocating 30,000 euros, 20,000 or 15,000 to each jurisdiction out of my hat: it was their respective presidents who told me about this idea. And my role as a deputy, in my view, is to relay the word of the field when it does not seem aberrant to me. [[Mr. Jean-Michel Clément applauds]] Let us take the example of the prefectures: they have funds to combat the crime they have within the framework of a certain financial autonomy, and this is very useful because they can deal with visible, identified problems, which allows Members to promote field operations. Of course, fungibility and flexibility are needed, but the administrative difficulties involved are well known. It would therefore be expedient to tell the heads of the courts that they have, with such a sum, the hand to make the court live in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u128	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u129	I would ask no better than to give you reason, Mrs. Moutchou; But there are two problems which you seem to be unaware of and which cannot be ignored when you are Special Rapporteur, which I have been in for several years: firstly, there is, as other colleagues have already pointed out, a chronic under-execution of the appropriations to the Ministry of Justice; Secondly, there are prisons. It is clear that, every year, hundreds of millions of investments are announced for prisons, but there is nothing going on behind this display. It is therefore communication, not execution. All this leads me to draw attention to the risk of inertia. I note the will of the keeper of the seals, but we saw that his predecessors were also full of good will and that, afterward, inertia took him away and things were not done. Please understand, my dear colleague, that the Special Rapporteur is in his role in alerting us to past under-executions, and thus to possible budgetary slippages, particularly with regard to the appropriations allocated to prisons. So you can't just say that there is an extraordinary increase in appropriations: our arguments deserve to be heard. It's always the same thing: we'll see what's going on in terms of budget implementation, but for the moment, experience is a denial of what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u130	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u131	I would like to add a few very brief details, but they seem useful to me. First of all, Mrs Untermaier, with regard to the difficulties you rightly refer to, I would like to inform you that the General Inspectorate of Justice is working directly on this. We can partly agree on the diagnosis. For the rest, let me remind you that I have requested a strengthening of the management dialogue, i.e. relations between the presidents of the courts, both first instance and appeal, and the central administration in order to better calibrate needs, including local ones. Mrs Cariou rightly pointed out that there are, of course, local specificities. And headquarters, the department, take them into consideration. Finally, with regard to non-executions, you are right, Mr. Special Rapporteur, but they mainly concern real estate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u132	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u133	And as far as prison is concerned, you know that there can be great differences between what is announced at the national level and what is achieved at the local level: we agree to receive a new prison, but at the neighbour's, in the town next door.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u134	[[Smile]] "Not at home! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u135	And that's it: we all know what's going on, and it complicates things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u136	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u137	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 1784.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u138	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, one of the priorities you have set for your action is access to justice, especially for the most vulnerable. And the houses of justice and law, especially in rural areas, provide a great deal for people who are far away from it. This amendment therefore proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the action "Support for access to law and justice". A decline in resources in this area would be a bad symbol, contrary to your stated willingness to facilitate access to justice, especially for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u140	Mr Brindeau, I will give you a two-step answer: first on principle, then on budgetary technique. You propose to strengthen the means of access to the law by transferring €10 million from the Prison Service programme to the Judicial Justice programme. I hear your concern, and I can only share it personally. There is, however, a problem of budgetary technique: there is a great deal of funding for access to the law, particularly the courts and the law, which is not included in Program 166, "Judicial Justice", but in Program 101, "Access to Law and Justice". That is why I am expressing an unfavorable opinion, but in my personal capacity, because the committee has not considered the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u142	Everything happens: I fully agree with the Special Rapporteur. It is for a purely technical question that the Government's opinion is unfavourable, Mr.Brindeau. I would like to take this opportunity to support my earlier response – a pardon for this late response – which probably did not have to satisfy your legitimate expectations: know that the funds allocated to help victims increase by 11.4%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u143	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u144	I hear the arguments of the Special Rapporteur and the Minister, but it had seemed to me that the appropriations for the action "Support for access to law and justice" were included in the judicial justice programme, hence the drafting of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u145	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1209.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u146	As I indicated in the opening discussion, this amendment echoes the one that we tabled during the review of the programming bill, which was based on the recommendations of the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights. It aims to allocate funds to the experimentation of judicial centres specialising in the fight against discrimination. Placed at the appellate courts, they would include not only magistrates and magistrates at the headquarters and prosecutor's offices, specialized judicial police officers, but also anti-discrimination associations and litigants drawn at random to be as close to the population as possible. I believe that we all share the view that there is a need to combat discrimination. Unfortunately, for the past three years, the Government has not made any positive changes in the implementation of public policies in this area, particularly in the area of justice. There are numerous testimonies highlighting the difficulty of prosecuting discrimination, and reports from NGOs – non-governmental organizations – and various associations and institutions such as the Defender of Rights show that too many obstacles remain in this area. That is why we consider this amendment all the more important. Before the end of the legislature, we must take up this issue, which has unfortunately been too ignored so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u148	You are referring, Mrs Obono, to reports on the question of combating discrimination, and the subject has obviously given rise to a debate in the Committee on Finance. The Commission considered that the creation of a judicial centre dedicated solely to combating discrimination was not desirable, since the courts themselves obviously ensured that all the constitutional and legislative rules relating to the principle of equality and non-discrimination were respected. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u150	It is clear, honourable Member, that we are all extremely sensitive here to all issues relating to discrimination. However, I agree with the Special Rapporteur that the current judicial process is a perfect way of understanding discrimination. Justice does not leave the perpetrators unpunished, and that is very good. The Government is therefore totally opposed to the creation of a particular centre, specifically dedicated to these acts: this would make no sense in this regard, even if, I repeat, the Government shares your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u151	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u152	I have referred to several reports; I also refer you to what the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) has been advocating for several years, and to the findings of the Defender of Rights: in theory, victims must have access to justice, but this is not the case at the moment. That's literally not true! If you look at the work of your ministry, you will realize it yourself. That is why we are presenting this amendment and making these requests. While we can discuss the appropriations to be deployed, it is irresponsible to consider everything to be all right. Victims find it difficult to access justice and face very complex procedures. What you say is not up to the stakes: while you are aware of the problem, you are not giving yourself the means to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u153	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1981.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u154	It concerns the means dedicated to the fight against economic, financial and fiscal crime, and draws on the work carried out by Ugo Bernalicis and Jacques Maire, recorded in a report. We propose to recruit enough judges for the national financial prosecutor's office – PNF – so that it can function optimally. While only fifty additional magistrates and magistrates will be funded under programme 166 in 2021, there are numerous warnings about the lack of resources allocated to the PNF. In 2013, the impact study of the Law on Combating Tax Fraud and Large Economic and Financial Crime, establishing the PNF, recalled: "A prosecutor cannot follow up on more than 8 cases, given the complexity of these cases (complex monitoring and settlement, long hearings that may involve more than one prosecutor). Today, there are only eighteen judges in the PNF, which makes it possible to handle 144 cases optimally, for 590 cases in progress, i.e. 32 cases each. According to our calculations, seventy-three magistrates – fifty-five more than today – would have to be able to deal with eight cases each. This would be a strong signal of the Government's commitment to combat high crime, which is too rampant with impunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u156	As the amendment has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, I can only deliver a personal opinion. It is simple and shared by the Republican Group, which supports the abolition of the PNF. While there is obviously a need to combat financial crime, the PNF has been diverted from its mission. Thus, he placed under surveillance persons belonging to the former President of the Republic's entourage, outside any legal framework, endangering the professional secrecy of lawyers and journalists. I am therefore personally very opposed to the amendment because we are in favour of abolishing the PNF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u157	That's consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u159	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u160	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u161	Mr Special Rapporteur, I am very surprised to hear that your group is in favour of abolishing the PNF. It was not created to prosecute politicians, but to combat economic and financial fraud. Since its inception, it has made it possible to recover more than 7 billion criminal fines – sums that no court had previously demanded, in addition to administrative fines that could be imposed by several authorities, including the tax administration. I recall that Pierre Cordier and Éric Diard, both members of your group, have co-written with me reports on Bercy's lock, cross-border mounts and the application of the anti-fraud law. All these reports have concluded, in agreement with the Court of Auditors which we have heard and which has drawn up a specific report on financial justice, that in order to make financial investigations more effective, the means of justice had to be strengthened, thus strengthening the PNF and increasing the recruitment of police officers and gendarmes. That is why I fully support Amendment No 1981. The following amendment, which I myself will defend, is formulated a little differently, but it has exactly the same objective. Removing the PNF, the main outcome of the sanctions of the Autorité des marchés financiers and the reduction of Bercy's lock, would be very dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u162	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u163	We know the criticisms of the political instrumentalisation of justice in general and of the PNF in particular, but, like Mrs Cariou, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen the means of this body. A reform aimed at improving management can always be envisaged, but the PNF has the merit of tackling the scourge of financial crime. I often hear colleagues sitting on many benches utter very hard words about zero tolerance for shit smokers or bicycle thieves;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u164	Sometimes they're the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u165	...we'd like to see as much about financial crime. At the time of the FinCEN files – files leaked from the U.S. Treasury Department's office responsible for combating financial crime, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network – where, scandal after scandal, one realizes the level of impunity in this area, the lack of a judicial response is very worrying. We are also seeing – the minister's very short answer proves this – a problem, which affects the public service, politicization and political instrumentalisation of justice. We have not finished hearing about this issue. I understand the minister's embarrassment, but he should go beyond these disputes to think of the general interest: that of justice and the fight against impunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u166	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u167	Mr Hetzel, your conclusion is excessive: facts attributed to some perfectly identified magistrates cannot call into question a whole functioning institution – Mrs Cariou recalled the figures! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am, however, against the recruitments proposed by Mrs Obono. The PNF does not ask for additional magistrates, but one or two specialized assistants – this is a request to consider. We will have time to discuss this again in the debate on the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and on specialised criminal justice, which we will be considering in a few weeks' time. Mrs Obono, since you want to fight against the great crime that is raging with impunity, in particular the crime that harms the European Union's financial interests – that is a lot of money! – I give you an appointment on the occasion of this transposition text and I have no doubt that you will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u168	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 2044.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u169	Its aim is to stimulate the criminal chain acting against economic, financial and fiscal crime, by increasing the budget of the anti-fraud sector and by creating a dedicated programme, which would irrigate the prosecutor's office and its investigative services, particularly in the police and gendarmerie. As I have pointed out, a number of parliamentary reports, as well as observations by the Court of Auditors – in particular its reference to the means devoted to combating economic and financial crime – show that investigative services face a dwindling of financial resources and that financial justice generally lacks resources. The Court therefore calls – in particular, we relayed this request in the report we drafted with Pierre Cordier – to strengthen the entire anti-fraud industry. We propose the creation of a specific programme, which could bring together the corresponding budgets. Minister, as part of the 2017 Settlement Act, the majority adopted an amendment to create a cross-cutting policy document, a TPD, on fraud – the rapporteur-general remembers it well and can confirm it – whose purpose was to centralise all the elements of assessment relating to the means devoted to the fight against tax fraud: those of Bercy, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and possibly the Quai d'Orsay with regard to bilateral negotiations and agreements. This document is not currently available: we do not have data from the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. This lack of coordination is not in a position to strengthen the fight against financial fraud. While, two years ago, we collectively decided to ease Bercy's lock, it is time to give this opening up criminal opportunities through adequate means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u171	As Ms Cariou points out, the decision to lift Bercy's lock must continue. In the Finance Committee, reference had been made to the Government's promise to produce this cross-cutting document, which, for the time being, was lacking. The amendment proposes to allocate resources to the fight against fraud to develop the use of external economic and financial expertise. This point is noted in the Court of Auditors' report and is regularly recalled. As fraud is increasingly sophisticated, additional expertise is needed. The amendment has not been discussed by the Finance Committee; In my personal capacity, I express a favourable opinion because I believe that this issue, which comes back in a recurring way, is important. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, your ministry is not alone in this matter since it is a cross-cutting document; I hope that you will take the necessary steps and relay the information to your colleagues so that the national representation finally has the elements to assess the consolidated means of all the ministries, yours like Bercy. This would be relevant and consistent with the work that has been under way for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u173	Mrs Cariou, thank you for alerting me to this document which I will endeavour to transmit to you as soon as possible, after having joined with the other ministries concerned. The commitments you are referring to were made in 2017, when I was not in office; But if this document has been promised to you and it must allow Parliament to exercise its control over the Government, it must be sent to you. I will send you this document, or at least alert the other departments concerned so that we can establish it. For the rest, the resources involved in the fight against financial crime are obviously taken into account in programme 166, "Judicial Justice", whose appropriations are considerably increased by 2021. In these circumstances, I can only deliver an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u174	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u175	Minister, in fact, the TPD has come out well, but the elements of the Department of Justice are not filled in. Every year, we receive a kind of duplicate from the report of the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – while the TPD must be much broader than that. I thank you for your willingness to provide us with these elements, but you will find it difficult to do so. The Court of Auditors has pointed to other problems, in particular the way in which costs are assessed at the Ministry of Justice, where there is a clear lack of a whole chain of reporting. In fact, in writing our reports on financial justice, we had a lot of difficulty recovering statistical data. You are no more responsible than we are for the billions of euros in deficit that we found when we got to business. We all have a mission to work for the future. If you assure us that the necessary tools will be put in place so that the costs of each of the actions in this programme are accurately quantified, if you guarantee us that you will give us the opportunity to see much clearer about the means allocated to the fight against fraud, we will of course be satisfied. But I would like to warn you right now that, because of the influx of cases that we have created voluntarily – and also at the request of judges – especially on the tax fraud side, we really need to strengthen the means of financial justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u176	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u177	I can only bring you my good will. However, when I propose it to you, you answer that it will be difficult for me to draw up the cross-cutting policy document in question. To the impossible no one is held, you know it well. So, to satisfy you, I will do what I can.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u178	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1895.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u179	This is an amendment of appeal, or even of reflection, from my report calling for a police of trust. When a police officer is accused by a citizen or, conversely, a citizen by a police officer, there is a suspicion of justice, of the strong link that exists, locally, between the prosecutor's office and the police station. To get out of this, to move towards a police of trust and a justice of trust, I suggest, on the one hand, a systematic shift in business and, on the other hand, the creation of a chamber specializing in relations between citizens and the police. This proposal is the result of my own experience, Minister. As a journalist, I had to go through a bunch of libel trials when I threw my duck at Amiens. Now, as long as I was tried in Amiens, I can tell you that I did not trust the justice of my city. The lawyer of the opposing party, president of the football club, sat on the prosecutor's desk with obvious complicity and the deliberations were copied-paste of the opposing party's pleadings, including spelling errors! And I've been systematically convicted. When I had the happiness of getting judicial change of scenery, especially in front of the 17th Correctional Chamber, that is to say, in front of the press chamber, I felt like I was in the land of the Enlightenment – at last! – and to be in front of people who knew what the words "freedom of expression" meant. The same would seem to me to be true with a chamber specializing in relations between the police and citizens. By subtracting cases from local ties, which would also be tried by judges with comparative points, confidence would be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u181	This amendment has not been considered by the committee. It is therefore in my personal capacity that I express an unfavorable opinion, and not, dear colleague, because you would not address an important issue, that of the relationship of trust between the population and its police, on the one hand, and its justice, on the other; But if we create a specialized chamber, it is not certain that this question will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u183	In essence, MP Ruffin, you say that police officers tried in their jurisdiction would not be, like any other citizen, like any other person. But creating a specialized room would not change anything – we would stay in the same place, if I may say, within the same perimeter. You could therefore propose a change of scenery, but in any event, I would remind you that we are examining the finance bill and that you are referring to your convictions, all of which are unfair, which may have, for some, the authority of the res judicata. You would have discovered the Enlightenment in front of the 17th chamber of the Court of Grand Instance of Paris, which will no doubt be delighted to know that it has thus made it possible to enlighten you in this way – fiat lux in the 17th chamber! Good, I welcome it, but, forgive me for insisting on it, we are out of the question. Opinion totally unfavourable, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u184	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u185	We are not out of the question, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u186	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u187	We are looking at the budget of justice, and if we create a specialized chamber, it will have to be financed. The question is, however, not to be denied, how to improve relations between the police and citizens. I hear what the Special Rapporteur says when he believes that my proposal would certainly not solve the problem. I have to admit in all humility that I'm not sure either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u188	Well, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u189	But I wanted to ask how, through budgetary measures, we could improve the situation. Indeed, when police officers are tried in their jurisdiction, they are not tried in a neutral manner because there is a clear link between the prosecutor's office and the police station. As you know, I am not a specialist in justice and I have never claimed it – my colleagues Obono and Bernalicis take care of it. I have submitted a small report on the matter. I just want to know what the Ministry of Justice is doing to improve the situation again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u190	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u191	A small clarification, Mr Ruffin, which is not anecdotal: the seat is not the parquet floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u193	To say that the seat would be the prosecutor's office would be offensive to the independence of the judges of the seat, which is a constitutional rule, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u194	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u195	You started your speech, Mr. Ruffin, by talking about trust. But trust begins with truth, and truth requires a little nuance. You cannot say that every time a policeman is tried in a court of law at the place of his activity, there would be a wolf. That's not true. I would like to make the principle of specialized jurisdiction a totem, but that will not solve all the problems. You talked about the relationship between the police and the population, all right. I would therefore insist on prevention. It is on prevention that we must put the package. It is not when a procedure is initiated, when a sanction is imposed, that the problem will be solved. In this way you are all the more out of step because, technically speaking, your proposal is inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u196	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron to support Amendment No. 1881.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u197	The purpose of this amendment is to recruit two additional specialized assistants who would be assigned to the cybercrime unit of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the judicial court in Paris. Indeed, cybercrime is a type of protean and growing crime. Crimes involving this type of crime include incitement to terrorism or racial hatred on the Internet, bank card fraud, child pornography, money laundering and online scams. Cybercriminals have taken particular advantage of the crisis of the Covid-19 to carry out an increasing number of attacks, especially against very small and medium-sized enterprises – TPE-SMEs. As of 1 September last year, specialists from the National Agency for Information Systems Security, ANSSI, had already intervened 104 times against computer attacks of the kind "ransomware", this form of online extortion particularly problematic for companies because it paralyzes any activity. This is almost twice as much as in 2019 – a year for which 54 cases were counted. In the face of this growing threat, I wish to alert you to the need to strengthen this component of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u199	You recall one often noted difficulty: the growth of cybercrime, on which we all have examples to mention. You propose to create two posts for just over 163,000 euros. Since the Committee on Finance has not voted on your amendment, I am relying personally on the wisdom of the House. Indeed, I am still somewhat reluctant when it comes to this – you propose here to transfer the appropriations from Action 04, "Management of the central administration", from Programme 310, to Action 02, "The conduct of criminal policy and the adjudication of criminal cases", from Programme 166. However, you emphasize a real difficulty that cannot be kept insensitive, especially since this type of crime has, let us repeat, developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u201	Of course, Mr. Houbron, we are all interested in the development of cybercrime. While all jurisdictions may have jurisdiction over cybercrime, the Paris court, as you know, has concurrent national jurisdiction. With regard to cyber-attacks, the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office has two specialized assistants to assist judges in their efforts to combat cybercrime. No job creation for a specialist assistant has been provided for in the five-year programming law. It is not possible, in this context, to satisfy the new demands of the courts without redeploying a job as a specialist assistant or to secure a job of category A, which I imagine you fully understand. The ongoing management dialogue with the appeal courts will allow to assess the reality of the needs and the conditions for a possible reinforcement of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office. I have previously referred to these dialogues between the courts of major jurisdiction, the courts of appeal and the administration. I would also like to point out that at the National School of the Judiciary, the ENM, a special training course on the fight against cybercrime is given. However, at least as decisive as the financial means are the costs of justice for computer expertise, the number of which increases significantly. All of this is in line with your legitimate concerns. Your amendment also gives me the opportunity to make a useful reference, and I thank you for that, to the valuable role of the 109 specialist assistants who are high-level collaborators of specialised magistrates, either in economic and financial matters or in the field of organised crime – and, of course, cybercrime – or in health matters, in cases of ever-high complexity. For the reasons I have just mentioned, I express an unfavorable opinion, even though I wanted to tell you how sensitive the Government was to cybercrime and how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u202	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u203	Minister, in February 2017, candidate Emmanuel Macron promised the construction of 15,000 prison places during the next quinquennium and advocated a zero-tolerance policy towards delinquency. In committee, while I was defending the increase in appropriations in order to create prison places, so to fulfil the promise of candidate Macron, the draftsman, you advised me to read your report on the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people, which I have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u204	You have sound readings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u205	It was a very healthy and very interesting reading, yes, and I thank you for advising me because I had no knowledge of a number of figures. "The real estate prison program, launched in 2018," you write, "is planning the delivery of 7,000 places of detention by 2022 and the launch of another 8,000 places by 2027. Exit, therefore, the 15,000 seats promised for the present quinquennium. You continue: "To date, 27.5% of the 7,000 seats in the first tranche have already been delivered, which represents 1926 places. And you conclude: "A total of 5314 places will normally be delivered or under construction in 2022. » From promise to reality, then, there is a long way. I therefore propose to increase programme 107, "Correctional Service", to help the President of the Republic keep his promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u206	It's not about money, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u208	You underline, Mrs Ménard, a major issue in this budget for 2021. The implementation of an ambitious real estate programme is necessary to significantly improve the conditions of detainees and to achieve the objectives set by the President of the Republic himself and that majority; The point we are talking about is going to span the quinquennium since the horizon does not end in 2022 but in 2027. That being the case, I would like to express an unfavorable opinion, and with your amendment you withdraw 200 million from the judicial system, of which everyone agrees that it already lacks resources. From a budgetary point of view one cannot do otherwise, but it amounts to undressing Paul to clothe Peter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u209	We don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u210	In fact, it is clear from your argument that the overall question of means arises. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, but in my personal capacity, since the committee has not voted on this amendment. However, I do not ignore the need to pay particular attention to our prison administration, which is also experiencing difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u212	In supporting your amendment, Mrs Ménard, you thought you had to recall that the current President of the Republic had mentioned zero tolerance during the election campaign. Allow me to remind you, or to tell you if you do not know – which I would be surprised to hear – that with more than 90% the criminal response rate is extremely high in our country, and the rate of execution of sentences is over 90% as well. This parenthesis being closed, I will answer you precisely. Between 2017 and mid-2020, more than EUR 1 billion in commitment authorisations have been mobilised to implement the programme "Real Estate Prisons", which provides for the construction over ten years of an additional 15,000 prison places. That is what has already been done. In 2021, 335 million investment credits will be allocated. That's what we're going to do. Nearly 2000 places have already been put into service, and another 5,000 will be delivered or in the process of being delivered in 2022. By the end of the quinquennium, the second wave of 8,000 places will be launched for delivery by 2026. For example, the works are very advanced in Lutterbach and Koné, engaged in Basse-Terre, Bordeaux and Caen, and they will start in Troyes in a few days. On the second Caen project, design studies continue in all other operations in the first 7000 places. Finally, consultations are already underway in Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni and for the future Tremblay prison, for 8,000 places. As you know, the implementation of the "Real Estate Prisons" programme is well under way. It does not require the proposed budget transfer, a fortiori in proposals that would no longer allow civil and criminal courts to function. Ensuring this good functioning is our first duty vis-à-vis the French. Under these circumstances, the Government is of course expressing an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u213	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u214	Thank you, Minister, for your extremely precise answer; But for these figures I am basing myself on the report of the draftsman. What has been decided is not to open nearly 2000 places today and more than 5000 in a year and a half: a total of 5314 places will be delivered or under construction in 2022; In other words, the figure of 5000 places will not be reached by that date. The budget year is unsatisfactory in that, as the Special Rapporteur has said, we withdraw here to put it, but that is what we are being forced to do; Without this constraint, I would have simply added credits without withdrawing any of them from any program. What I'm asking is to add credits on this line to create real estate because, as you can see, in 2022, at the end of Mr Macron's quinquennium, his goal and his promise of 15,000 additional prison places will not be met. That is why I would like to refer to the figures of the draftsman. The promise will not be kept, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u215	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u216	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why it is imperative to re-elect President Macron if he comes again, Madame Ménard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u217	So he can make the same promises again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u218	Amendment No 1421 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u219	There's no one to defend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u220	Mr Special Rapporteur, I would like to remind you of the rule relating to the particular context in which we live: any member of the group can defend an amendment even if he is not a signatory to it. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u221	It is an amendment quite similar to that of Mrs Ménard, even if the point of puncture is not the same. I am issuing a wisdom opinion in my personal capacity, knowing that this amendment has not been debated in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u222	I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 732.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u223	With this amendment we would like to see the creation of 1000 posts of prison overseer. New spaces are being created in large numbers, and additional staff will be required to manage these spaces. This amendment is especially an opportunity for us to welcome the role of prison overseers. We have recently had a special thought for teachers and other difficult professions, such as police. In prisons, supervisors have an essential role and often very difficult work. If they could be more numerous, it would be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u225	In reply to Ms. Pau-Langevin, it would be useful to know the vacancy rate among prison guards; I do not have this number, but we will probably have the answer by the seal keeper: this is an important question. I also warn that this administration is having a hard time recruiting; But wanting to deal with this in 2021 with a move of 50 million punctuated on the steering of the policy of justice, therefore on the budget of the General Secretariat – which also needs means for digital – is a bit problematic. The committee has not discussed this amendment, to which I personally give an unfavorable opinion for the reasons given. The problem, however, is real, and I hope that the Government will shed some light on the vacancy rate in the prison administration, as improvements are needed in this area. I believe that the amendment is also intended to say that we must not continue in the wrong direction taken for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u228	There are 1,000 vacant posts. Of the 1092 new positions planned for PLF 2021, 719 are supervisory positions, including 390 for vacation filling, 309 for establishment openings and 20 for team strengthening. In total, about 1900 supervisors will be recruited by competition in 2020 to ensure these job creations as well as to fill departures. The campus of the National School of Prison Administration is physically unable to accommodate 1000 more students, while we have never recruited so much since 2017. In addition, we know from experience that the supervisor recruitment pool does not allow 1000 more supervisors to be recruited. I would add that the internal security professions – police, gendarmes, customs officers, supervisors – compete with each other and recruit at high levels. As a result, I necessarily express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u229	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1813.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u230	An amount of EUR 33.19 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations is programmed under the subsidy for public service charges of the ENM. This school is partly responsible for the culture of laxism and the excuse that prevails today in our justice. In fact, in 2018, a famous lawyer repeatedly called for the abolition of the ENM, certainly for other reasons, judging it too "corporatist" and denouncing an institution "capable of training future magistrates both professionally and humanly". In order to break with these practices, the ENM should be abolished and the appropriations allocated to it should be reoriented. On the other hand, the need for additional prison places is still so acute. The electoral promise of the President of the Republic to build 15,000 new places is far from being kept, that has been said, and the real need tends rather towards the 40,000. It is therefore a matter of allocating some 33.2 million to the prison administration for the construction of new prisons: this is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u232	This is probably an appeal amendment. The substantive issue is that there is a need to train public servants. The way we train them is another question, but if we want a real public service, if we want a regalian in our country, people must be well trained. To do this, we need places to train them. I am therefore among those who believe that the issue of training our officials should not be neglected. Your amendment has not been debated in the Committee on Finance, but in my personal capacity I have an unfavorable opinion, because if you put it to me, you must not throw the baby away with bath water. There may be some very perfect things in the training of our officials, including on the justice side, but if we want to make progress in a justice system of the twenty-first century, we still need to provide ourselves with the means to have fully trained judges. We could have a debate – but that would then come out of the budget framework – about, for example, the timing of recruitment: either directly upon graduation from the Masters, or, as in other countries, after ten years of experience. The same question also arises for ENA, the National School of Administration. But if we don't have a place to train our officials, we collectively shoot ourselves in the foot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u234	Mr. Meizonnet, perhaps you should – this is just a suggestion, because the imperative is forbidden to me when I address you – read me more. I have indeed envisaged, not the outright abolition of the ENM, but a joint training school for lawyers and magistrates. That is quite another thing than what you are proposing, which is to allocate the ENM's appropriations to the construction of new prison places. Clearly, the ENM would no longer have a penny and would be eliminated. That's the proposal you're making, and you'll concede to me that it's at least nihilistic. [[Smile]] It shows that you are bold, which is a virtue: does Virgile not say that "luck smiles at the bold"? Despite your audacity, however, you will receive only an unfavorable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u235	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u236	It is intended to increase the appropriations for out-of-home placement, which we consider insufficient budget for. We propose to quadruple it in order to improve the funding of associations that have entered into agreements with the prison administration and thus increase the number of persons eligible for outside placement. In 2018, the International Prison Observatory pointed out: "The daily price awarded to associations does not correspond to the cost of the measure and this requires a multitude of co-financings today more and more complicated to find. In the face of these uncertainties and the difficulty of balancing this action, associations tend to disengage from the implementation of this measure. Thus, at the end of 2017, the Realise association, which offered 30 accommodation places, closed its service dedicated to outside placement. The only possibility to maintain the scheme is to finance it in the form of an overall allocation. Finally, we object to the logic that the goal of individual confinement for as many prisoners as possible could only be achieved through the creation of new prison places. On the contrary, there is a need for a mechanism of prison regulation. Sanctions remain, but their implementation is appropriate. That is the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u238	This amendment by Members of the Group of the European People's Party raises the question of the allocation of resources and the application of the measure of external placement. The Finance Committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion, however, considering that the decision on such a matter lies with the Government: the choices and guidelines that govern the allocation of resources are eminently political. However, the associations interviewed requested additional resources; It's a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u240	The reallocation of resources proposed here seems to us to be disproportionate to the needs, and it would be at the expense of the real estate prison programme. Under these circumstances, the Government cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u241	Mr Philippe Dunoyer's Amendment No 1429 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u242	The Committee on Finance has not considered this amendment, tabled on the initiative of several of our colleagues who are concerned about the situation at the Nouméa prison, particularly in the face of overcrowding. The amendment is aimed at transferring 10 million commitment and payment authorizations from the 310 programme, "Leading and piloting of justice policy", to the 107 programme, "Correctional Service". Personally, I am against this because the 2021 Finance Bill provides for increased funding for the custody and control of persons in the hands of justice. Like many of my colleagues this morning, however, I would like to once again alert the Government on the implementation of the prison administration budget and on the investment in prison places.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u244	The prison population of the Nouméa prison has decreased significantly since the beginning of the health crisis. The occupancy rate rose from 130 per cent in March 2020 to 108 per cent in October 2020, representing 445 persons currently detained instead of 541, for 414 places. This decrease in the prison population has led to some improvement in the conditions of detention and consequently in the working conditions of staff. Following the initial studies, the development of a master plan for the restructuring of the camp is to be entrusted to the Public Agency for the Real Estate of Justice before the end of 2020. The operations are therefore under way. The allocation of additional payment appropriations is not necessary at this stage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u245	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 805, and to give the Committee's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u246	This is an appeal amendment, the aim of which is to challenge the Government on the need to combat prison overcrowding by increasing the number of places available in prison. The Government has made commitments for 2022 and 2027: to keep them, we will have to pass the multiplication place Vendôme and match them with financial measures now. That is the meaning of this amendment. I would point out that several of our colleagues have tabled similar amendments and that the Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u248	Mrs Ménard's amendment No 238, which we discussed a few minutes ago, pursued the same objective. I obviously did not change my mind: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u249	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1212.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u250	We propose to earmark funds for the purchase of masks for persons in detention. The wearing of the mask is now mandatory in all enclosed places – including in the family and for individual exchanges, the Prime Minister told us – but it is not in detention, which seems to us problematic from a health point of view and from a point of view of equality between citizens. As with the rest of the population, the figures on the spread of the epidemic are of particular concern in detention. An article in the newspaper Le Monde, dated 28 October, reports: "According to weekly data, on Tuesday 27 October, 171 positive prisoners were brought back to prison by all institutions, compared to 117 a week earlier and 88 on 12 October. The acceleration of the epidemic is also measured among prison staff with 431 positive testers, compared to 287 eight days ago and 188 two weeks ago. » In addition, it should be recalled that the detainees made masks and participated in the equipment of the caregivers of the AP-HP – Public assistance – Hospitals of Paris – and of the officials of the Ministry of Justice. It seems to us abnormal and unfair that they cannot themselves dispose of these masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u252	Do inmates and prison staff have enough masks? Although the question should be asked, the committee, considering that it was not a matter of budgetary debate but of the day-to-day functioning of the institutions, gave an unfavourable opinion on the amendment. It is in fact an appeal amendment aimed at questioning the Government on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u254	The prison administration has enough masks to ensure the health security of its staff and detainees. Therefore, Madam Member, the amendment you are presenting cannot receive a favourable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u255	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1460. You, my colleague, could present it jointly with the following amendments Nos 1461, 1462 and 1463.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u256	While these four amendments deal with the same subject, securing prisons, each deals with a separate issue. So allow me to introduce them one after the other. The 2021 finance bill devotes €62.6 million in commitment authorizations and €63.7 million in payment appropriations to the security of prisons. In 2018, the report of the fact-finding mission on the legal regime for searches in detention, which our colleague Dimitri Houbron, present here, and I myself had written, showed that the problem of searches raised the broader issue of security in detention and the means available to heads of institutions and supervisors to combat the entry of dangerous and illegal objects into institutions. The information mission proposed to strengthen the monitoring capacity of inmates and visitors, in particular by developing equipment in millimetre-wave portals. If an improvement in the security of establishments appears in the budget blue, no amount is indicated for the development of millimetre wave portals. Furthermore, we do not know what increase has been made in the budget for this security over previous finance bills. For these reasons, it is proposed to increase the appropriations for the security of prisons and, in particular, the appropriations for the development of millimetre-wave portals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u258	This amendment concerns, as the three following, the security of prisons; I shall speak once on these four amendments, if you do not mind. The report of the fact-finding mission on the legal regime for searches in detention identified several problems in the security of institutions and called for the establishment of millimetre-wave portals, but also for the strengthening of the control of detainees with the help of cynotechnical units, the deployment of anti-projection devices – in order to combat the introduction of external objects in prison sites – and the modernization of the video surveillance system, which sometimes failed. Each amendment tends to move 2 million towards a recommendation. Clearly, it is a call for amendments, which are intended to open the debate and to obtain clarification on the allocation of funds for the security of institutions. The Committee on Finance has not considered them, but I am issuing a favourable opinion in my personal capacity, since I am a co-signatory – I am consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u259	[[Smile]] You are quite consistent, Mr Special Rapporteur: you are in favour of your own amendments! What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u260	I will also make one and the same answer for the four amendments, if you agree. The Ministry of Justice, it is quite legitimate, devotes very important resources to the security of its prisons. The appropriations concerned amounted to EUR 40.6 million in 2017; in 2021 to €63.7 million, an increase of 60% over four years and 9.6% between 2020 and 2021. They obviously allow you to answer all your questions about the continued renovation of video surveillance, perimetric security, the fight against malicious drones and the deployment of interference systems; In addition, appropriations for prison intelligence amounted to EUR 5.9 million. The overall envelope reaches almost 70 million euros: this is the budget response to your concerns. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u261	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1461.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u262	I would have liked to make a grouped presentation as you had invited me to, Mr. Chairman, but the topics we are talking about are all important, especially for prison staff. Whether it is the support of the cynotechnical teams or the anti-projection devices, these are practical problems in prisons; On these four amendments, therefore, we cannot simply say'mov around, there is nothing to see' by presenting budgetary masses whose allocation is not known to anyone. Amendment No 1461, for example, aims to develop cynotechnical units. It is the result of a report that we have drawn up with my colleague Dimitri Houbron in conclusion of the work of a fact-finding mission on the regime of searches in detention. There were only three cynotechnical units in 2017, and a fourth will soon be established within the Interregional Directorate of Penitentiary Services in Rennes. Will others be created and, if so, when and how? They are highly sought by prison supervisors to support their interventions in some difficult situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u263	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1462.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u264	I regret that no clarification is given in response to requests for cynotechnical teams, but I will now deal with anti-projection devices. In 2020, there are 118 anti-projection devices in prisons, but their effectiveness remains to be assessed. Yesterday we received a list of the establishments concerned; that of Bourg-en-Bresse is considered to be equipped, whereas the device is obviously not effective – I say so knowingly. Such devices must also be taken into account in the construction of new establishments or in the renovation of existing ones, in order to avoid the importation of telephones or even weapons into establishments. We need concrete responses to what is being done and what is planned in the coming months to improve security in prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u265	Mr. Special Rapporteur, you have already spoken on this amendment. Minister, would you like to clarify the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u266	To illustrate the means that have been devoted in recent years to the deployment of anti-projections devices, I will give some very telling figures: 3.1 million euros were invested in 2015, 6.4 million in 2016, 11.5 million in 2017, 7.5 million in 2018 and 13.5 million in 2019. For this year, 10.8 million are planned and, by 2021, the effort has been increased to 15.8 million euros, in order to secure the establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u267	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u268	In the light of the quantifiable clarifications given by the keeper of the seals, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u269	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1463.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u270	It concerns video surveillance systems. It would of course have to be set up where there are none, but it is mainly a matter of modernizing existing ones to improve them. Indeed, there are many gaps in the quality of the images or in the angles of view. There is also the question of combating the overflight of prisons by drones, which is a growing phenomenon. We would like to know what progress has been made in this area by the prison administration, in connection with civil aviation: it is a sensitive subject for the security of institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u271	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 347, 744 and 804. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 347.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u272	Although it is increasing compared to 2020, will the budget for programme 101, "Access to law and justice", be sufficient to meet the needs identified in particular by the Perben report? It considers that the legal aid scheme allowing access to justice for all French citizens "suffers from chronic underfunding"; It further states that "France, with a budget of EUR 5.06 per capita devoted to legal aid, is below the European average of EUR 6.5 per capita". The increasing use of legal aid has not been accompanied by an increase in the compensation of lawyers who, in many situations, work at a loss. We must also take into account the situation of a health crisis in our country. The number of people living below the poverty line is expected to increase by 10 per cent; They must be able to enjoy the right of access to justice and to defend their rights. That is the purpose of this amendment, which aims to increase the budget for legal aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u273	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 744.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u274	As stated in his introduction, it was drawn up in consultation with the National Bar Council, in full transparency. According to the budget blue, the financial resources of legal aid will increase by €28.5 million – if these figures are correct, because it is rather complicated to know the exact amount of this increase. In any case, we know that this is not enough. In this area, Minister, we are not faced with the recruitment problems that you legitimately opposed our previous amendments; There are also no difficulties regarding the absorption of credits, since they are immediately consumable in this matter to relieve a long-standing profession. Like my colleague Mrs Buffet, I have read the Perben report; It is in many respects entirely relevant, but it seems to me that we need to go much further if we really want to make a cultural change in the field of justice. I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss it. In any event, the report explicitly states that the legal aid scheme suffers from chronic underfunding. We didn't wait for him to tell us, and the lawyers are here to remind him. The situation in France is not bright; We need to consider the lawyer better, because he is an essential player in the functioning of justice. It is about the survival of these professionals who work at a loss to assert the rights of the defence: it is also a ethical question, which questions the place we want to give to these rights. We therefore propose that EUR 53 million be allocated to action 01, "Legal aid", of programme 101, "Access to law and justice", in order to revalue both the unit of value used to calculate the amount of the remuneration paid to the legal aid lawyer and the level of the threshold at which it will be accessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u275	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 804 and give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u276	It is indeed the same as those who have just been excellently defended by Mrs Buffet and Mrs Untermaier. It has also been drawn up in consultation with the National Bar Council, which has alerted us on the subject, and is also in line with the Perben report. How can we increase the legal aid budget? We must have this debate. This is another amendment that I tabled in committee. I must say that Amendment No 804, which I am defending, received an unfavourable opinion. Amendments Nos 347 and 744 have not been discussed in committee, but, since they are identical, we can consider – if that does not shock you, colleagues – that the committee reserves the same fate for them. That being said, you see that from various benches in the Chamber, we are alerting you to this issue by relaying the concerns of the profession of lawyers. This is not new – the National Council of Bars has been reporting for some time – but I would like to insist on the need for special vigilance with regard to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u277	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u278	We know how alarming the situation of lawyers is; This is the reason for the Perben report, in which Mrs Naïma Moutchou participated, among other things. We have examined all the proposals that have been made, and we have already decided to increase the legal aid budget by EUR 50 million from 1 January 2021. As I said in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, this is only a first step. The increase is significant – more than 10% – and we have also considered paying better for the use of mediation; I am personally very attached to it. The UV – unit of value – will triple from 4 to 12. I also met the representatives of the bars. We need to discuss several of their commitments, first in terms of ethics – but this may not be the most important issue – and then in terms of the company lawyer's experimentation. We are discussing this and, as you know, Mrs Untermaier, it is not simple. I am in regular contact with the various representatives of the bars to try to find solutions to all these questions. However, as early as January 2021, 50 million euros were a first step. I have already specified the increase that this represents: it is not anomalous, and that is why the opinion is unfavourable. I will refer later to the amendment tabled by the Government on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u279	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u280	I understand, Mr Minister, that an increase of EUR 50 million is foreseen for legal aid. You say it yourself, it's a first step. But with the emerging economic and social crisis – an additional 1 million unemployed people are announced this morning in Ile-de-France in the coming weeks and months – the demand for legal aid will grow steadily. The amendments call on the Government to adapt to this new situation and to put the necessary means – the second and then the third step – to ensure that no individual is deprived of his or her rights to justice because he or she is a victim of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u281	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u282	Our colleagues are right to say that this is an important issue, because access to justice for the poorest is a democratic requirement. I have said this twice, first in the context of the report I drafted with my colleague Philippe Gosselin last year, and then in the preparation of the report to which I contributed with Dominique Perben. An increase of EUR 100 million for legal aid seems reasonable to us; That's what we're planning. However, it cannot be said that nothing is being done in this area! Since 2015, this budget has increased by 150 million euros, which represents an increase of 62%: this is anything but negligible! To those who say that this is insufficient, I reply that we are improving significantly over time. Secondly, it is not enough to say that France is one of the European countries that devotes the least resources to legal aid – which is true – but we must go to the end of the line of reasoning: it is also, if not the only one, at least one of the few countries that grants legal aid for the whole of the proceedings and where the user does not contribute to the financing of justice. A German litigant who takes action for a dispute involving 3000 euros, for example, will have to pay 325 euros while, in a similar case, the French litigant will pay nothing. If I didn't want to be concise, I'd give you more examples. Also, let us not elucidate the essential question of the counterparty. The Perben and Gosselin reports advocated the creation of a stamp duty in return for the EUR 100 million increase in this budget, which can be discussed. We can be proud and content with free access to justice, but there are consequences, ladies and gentlemen: justice is ill-equipped and legal aid is scarcely budgeted. That's how we make choices. We must move forward on these issues and, for my part, I trust the minister to engage in this consultation with the legal profession. We will be vigilant as to the follow-up that will be given to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u283	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u284	The legal aid effort is considerable and even historical. If everyone is to have access to the law, professionals must be able to respond to and live on this demand for services. The increase in resources will greatly improve the situation. Successive governments have played on the fact that lawyers are bad accountants and managers. However, the conclusions of the report recently commissioned by the profession to the KPMG firm will have to be borne in mind: the average hourly cost of producing a lawyer is 115 euros per hour, and 440 million euros are missing. I do not blame you for not granting these EUR 440 million in the immediate future, because I am fully aware that this would be impossible, and I concede that the effort made is consensual and important. In this debate, however, it should be recalled that the legal profession largely funds legal aid and access to the law for all. This reminder is necessary to defend the image of this profession and to play a role in certain speeches in the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u285	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u286	Thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for this announcement with an envelope of EUR 50 million – not EUR 28.3 million, as we read in the budget blue. This progress is a good thing for lawyers, but it is only their due. On the other hand, on the subject of judicial justice, we have not heard of any compensation that should be expected in terms of cultural evolution in practices or delays in judgement. This increase in the legal aid envelope should not lead to waiting for change only on the part of lawyers, who are doing their jobs. Business lawyer is another subject that has greatly fueled our debates on the Macron Act. You should not link developments that you might expect from lawyers and the treatment of legal aid, a factual, concrete and immediate problem. Legal aid credits are immediately consumable and will immediately be in the economy. EUR 50 million this year is very good; 50 million euros next year will be great.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u287	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u288	The lawyer in business, we're asking for it on an experimental basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u289	That's another subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u290	[[Raphaël Gauvain applauds]] Not completely: these are counterpart requests to the profession. It is not a question of imposing corporalism, but of experimenting. The profession is in difficulty enough for it to draw the blood of new possibilities. I would like to remind you of this framework, since you mentioned it, in front of the citizens who are watching us, in particular the lawyers concerned. We wish to conduct this experiment. When I was a lawyer, I experienced difficult times, especially when legal advice was integrated into the profession, marking the end of the traditional bar. But things finally went well. So I wish we could take this step, then notify. If this were to improve the situation of lawyers, we would not have wasted our time suggesting this evolution to the profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u291	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1215.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u292	Like those that have just been discussed, this amendment tends to increase the budget for legal aid, which will be done if judged by the announcements of the seal keeper. Following on from my colleagues, I stress that we cannot satisfy the current means. As far as comparisons are concerned, it is not just a question of saying that litigants in other European countries have to incur other costs for the same type of proceedings: French litigants also pay costs, outside the scope of legal aid, which poses a problem of equal access to justice. In the current economic and health context, the poorest may feel it even harder, but the middle classes, particularly disadvantaged, may also find themselves in difficult situations and need legal aid. That is why our amendment remains relevant, at least to support the warning of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u294	You want to strengthen the funds for legal aid, which is in line with our own proposals. In my personal capacity, therefore, I am in favour of this idea. However, in order to remain within the framework and not to create additional expenditure, you propose to take EUR 50 million from the appropriations allocated to the prison administration, which is a problem. In my personal capacity, I would therefore be in favour of the amendment if the Government were to remove this obstacle, which could be compared to a pledge. In order to be fully transparent, I would point out that the Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u296	I have already spoken at length on this subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u297	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 1330.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u298	Like the previous ones, it deals with legal aid and is roughly the same as the one defended by our colleague Danièle Obono. Perhaps it would have been more relevant to bring all these amendments together in a joint discussion... [[Ms. NaïmaMoutchoupplaudited]] Having taken note of the efforts that will be made to ensure access to legal aid and the remuneration of lawyers acting in that capacity, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I shall withdraw this amendment. We will, of course, remain vigilant about the follow-up given to the announcement you have just made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u299	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 807 and give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u300	The bill to act against violence against women, by our colleague Aurélien Pradié, strongly reinforces protection orders. Women can now be effectively protected within six days. In order to meet this challenge, beyond the new legislative arsenal, it is imperative to increase the number of family judges and prosecutors. The Government had announced the creation of 100 judicial posts for 2020, but none were for family judges. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to abound the appropriations for Action 01, "Treaty and Judgement of Civil Litigation", of the programme 166, "Judicial Justice", of EUR 20.526_369 million. This increase is offset by a decrease in the appropriations for Action 04, "Headquarters Management". This proposal is consistent with the excellent text defended by our colleague Pradieu a few months ago and with the commitments made in the wake of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u302	I obviously do not share your analysis at all. The Justice Programming and Reform Act created 100 judicial jobs per year in 2018 and 2019, and will create another 50 in 2021. Beyond the replacement of all retiring judges, we are creating additional jobs. A distinction must be made between job creation and judicial assignments. In view of the delays in training, judicial posts created under a budget were not assigned to the courts in the same year, but thirty-one months later in the case of judicial auditors from student recruitment. The 341 judicial auditors, who came from the 2018 promotion, were assigned to court in September 2020, according to the positions proposed by the Judicial Services Directorate. Of these, 133 chose to become prosecutors: 44 substitute prosecutors, 89 substitute prosecutors. The remaining 208 elected to serve as magistrates: 84 judges assigned to the first President, 26 non-specialized judges, 29 protection judges, 11 investigating judges, 24 enforcement judges and 34 children's judges. Contrary to what is indicated in support of the amendment, several of the 341 judges who graduated from the ENM in September – both at the seat of judges placed or non-specialised judges as well as at the public prosecutor's office – deal with family matters. Therefore, there are well-planned reinforcements in this area. That is why the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u303	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u304	I would like to support the amendment tabled by Mr Hetzel, given the importance of the protection order for women victims of violence. For them, the prescription is kind of a survival tool. Thanks to the Pradiah Act, the time limit for deciding on protection has been reduced to six days, which is a guarantee for these women. There is a real need to empower family judges to meet this new legal deadline. This is an example where the correctness of the law must be translated into means. All associations that combat violence against women welcomed the adoption of the Act. The lack of resources should not prevent it from fully entering into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u305	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u306	It is an absolutely vital subject and I do not imagine, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that you were unaware of it. Last year, during the debates on the justice budget, we asked your predecessor about the creation of posts, about reinforcements. Nicole Belloubet had made it clear to us that none of these reinforcements concerned family judges. That is why the question is being asked again. Marie-George Buffet is right: our country made the choice many years ago to base emergency protection on the family judge. I do not go back to this arbitration of architecture which, in my opinion, will be debated in the years to come. In any event, it is the family judge who holds the essential tool of the protection order, reinforced by the need to process applications in six days. He was also given an additional tool: the anti-approximation bracelet. You cannot build such a legislative building on an architecture as weak as that of the family judge. Their resources must be strengthened, which is not the case today. In the context of the report that Guillaume Vuilletet and I have devoted to the application of the law to act against violence within the family, we see that keeping the six-day deadline, among other things, is impossible if we do not give additional resources to family judges; The entire roof of this house of justice that allows us to protect women rests on too weak pillars. This is an absolute emergency, Minister. Beyond the figures that you can have, and which are surely aimed at neutralizing the debate, you know that the subject is real. We lack family judges: this must become a priority of your policy for the years to come. It is not a matter of polemics here, but of alerting you on a subject that must worry you too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u307	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-02-O1053.u308	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further examination of the appropriations for the Justice Mission; Review of Health and Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
