ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to relations with local and regional authorities (No 3399, Annex 36 ; No 3404, Volume VI) and to the financial assistance account "Advances to local and regional authorities" (No 3399, Annex 36). Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u3	First of all, I note that we have still not had a great debate on local authorities in this House. Therefore, if part of my speech will obviously focus on the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local authorities", the financial assistance account "Advances to local authorities" and the related articles, its scope will also include the question of taxation. Let us first explore the appropriations of the mission. I note that in 2021 they amounted to EUR 4.09 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 3.91 billion in payment appropriations. The €260 million increase in commitment authorisations over 2020 is due to the addition of three perimeter measures, two of which are linked to local tax cuts – which I will comment on later, as I have just indicated. I am pleased that the Government has stabilized the level of commitments. I also note that payment appropriations reflect the maturity of the investment allocations and the electoral cycle. The amounts allocated to the DSID – the department's investment support allocation –, created more recently, are increasing vigorously, while those allocated to the municipal bloc – the "city policy" endowment, DSIL, the local investment support allocation, and the rural land capital endowment, DETR – are decreasing slightly. I am sure that we will have a proportionate and tight debate here on the DETR, which has been the subject of a fact-finding mission on the recasting of its award criteria, with a view to ensuring better targeting. Finally, with regard to investments, I cannot ignore the opening of an exceptional DSIL in the third PLFR – the draft law on amending finance – with EUR 1 billion in commitment authorisations. I am surprised to find in this finance bill – PLF – for 2021 only an amount of 100 million euros. That deserves some explanation. Let us then study the financial aid account "Advances to local authorities", where more than 110 billion euros pass through. During the crisis, we rediscovered the usefulness of this account and its ability to facilitate community action. It has indeed come into play to support the departments affected by a decline in revenue from DMTO's repayable advances – transfer fees for consideration: €2 billion in loans were released in July. What will happen in 2021, will you ask me? The review of the PLF reveals that a new provision of EUR 700 million is planned to anticipate the future decline in DMTO revenue. I now turn to the two articles related to the mission. Finally, the first deals with the implementation of the automation of the VATF – compensation fund for value added tax – which had already been postponed twice. This is article 57 of the PLF: we will have to remember it! For here we are: although the provisions of this article will only come into force gradually, from 1 January 2021 onwards, I am very satisfied, because they will help to facilitate the management of the fund. I would remind you that the FCTV, which will reach €6.5 billion in 2021, is the main financial aid for community investment. Let us then look at the second non-attached article, the traditional FB allocation article – overall operating allocation – which includes vertical equalization. The latter will reach a historic summit in 2021, thanks to increases in the DSU – the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion – and in the DSR – the allocation of rural solidarity – of 90 million each, as well as the additional 30 million for inter-communities and the additional 10 million for departments. The amounts subject to equalisation under the DGF thus reach exceptional levels – 42.4% for municipalities for example. This raises an important question: how far do we have to go in terms of vertical equalization? At the same time, I note that the same article envisages reducing adjustment variables to EUR 50 million, an exceptionally low level. We thank you for that. In total, state financial assistance to communities will be increased to €49 billion in 2021, up 1.7%. State support is therefore very important in the current context. [[MM. Sébastien Jumel and Charles de Courson applaud]] Without transition, I am broadening the scope of analysis, as I promised at the beginning of the intervention, to refer to taxation. The EUR 10 billion reduction in local economic taxation from 1 January 2021 represents a further major change, in addition to that of local taxation linked to the abolition of the housing tax. I am warning you that since 2017, we have moved from a recast to a reform, then to adaptations and finally to abolitions of local taxation. These deletions were, I agree, rather well compensated by the state, but the words have a meaning: we have not completed the reform of local taxation or the simplification of compensation or equalization schemes. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LT, SOC and GDR groups]] The health crisis that we are going through puts pressure on the finances of the state, social security and communities and challenges our certainty about the tax baskets. Therefore, the year 2021 must lead us to clarify the financial relations between the state and local and regional authorities and to choose our public policies fairly, without dispersing us. In all these respects, 2021 will be full of uncertainties, but we have all the cards in our hands to overcome them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u4	[[Smile]] Nice speech, for an opposition deputy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u5	I call Mrs Emilie Guerel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u6	I am pleased to present, for the second year in a row, the appropriations for the Mission "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities". I will not detail them, because the Special Rapporteur has just done so. The practice in the Law Committee is that the draftsman emphasises a particular public policy that the appropriations just presented make it possible to finance. This year, I took an interest in the issues of the differentiation of the competences of local and regional authorities. Indeed, in order to respond to the need for greater proximity and readability of public action – a need expressed in particular by local elected representatives and our fellow citizens during the great national debate – and in the context of the health crisis which reminds us every day of the impossibility of providing uniform answers throughout the national territory, it is high time, it seems to me, to take a step towards a better adaptation of competences to the specificities and needs of the territories. According to your own observation, which I fully share, Madam Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, the old dream of the French garden – a place for everything and everything in its place – has lived. The constitutional framework, which enshrines the principle of equality, if it compels us as legislator, still allows us to take into account different situations by assigning differentiated competences to local and regional authorities. However, our use of this possibility remains largely marginal. Thus, while it is possible, without ignoring the principle of equality, to attribute by limited and precisely identified transfers differentiated competences to a community if this is justified on grounds of general interest or on grounds derived from a difference in situation, we have for the moment exploited this possibility only once, through the law of 2 August 2019 on the competences of the European community of Alsace, which transfers in particular the competence in the operation and management of national roads and unlicensed motorways. The delegation of powers between local and regional authorities, which has been included since 2010 in Article L. 1111-8 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, is an interesting mechanism, but very little used by local elected representatives because of a rather complex mechanism to be applied. The delegation of powers of the State to local and regional authorities, authorized by Article L. 1111-8-1, is even rarer. There is only one example: in 2015, the State delegated to the Brittany region a few competences in cultural matters, in the field of support for the fields of books, cinema and intangible cultural heritage. Here too, the procedure is cumbersome and complex, due in particular to the territorial conferences of public action – CTAP. Moreover, from the beginning of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic had expressed his willingness to give territorial authorities a right to differentiation. The goal is both to provide communities with skills that are not available to all communities in their class and to allow communities to deviate from certain standards on a sustainable basis. Since the Constitution could not be amended in 2018 to ease the constraint imposed on the legislator, at the beginning of the year 2020, Madam Minister, you launched a great national consultation on the distribution and exercise of powers, in the perspective of the future law called 3D – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration. Without prejudging the results of this consultation or the content of the future law, have you identified any powers of the state that could only be transferred to a few communities, due to different situations, as we did for Alsace in 2019? On the other hand, although they are now installed in the local institutional landscape, the CTAPs are the subject of numerous criticisms by local elected officials. How can we reinvigorate these tools, which could prove very useful in the future? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On 14 October, the Law Committee gave a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities". I call on you to do the same and to vote for these very essential appropriations for the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u7	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u8	The "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission we are looking at this morning differs from the others, in that it does not provide for appropriations for public policies defined by the Government and implemented by the administration. It regulates part of the financial relationship between the state and the communities – a small fraction, however: a much broader perspective is needed to examine it. How can we understand, in fact, the appropriations examined today without having in mind other provisions such as the abolition of the regional share of the contribution on the added value of enterprises – CVAE – or the unprecedented mechanism for guaranteeing the resources of the communities, created last July to deal with the consequences of the crisis on local finances? However, this mission remains the main vehicle for supporting community investment. As everyone knows, local authorities are the first public investors. In the crisis we are facing, while uncertainty is a powerful barrier to investment by households and, above all, by businesses, local authorities must maintain, or even accelerate, their investment projects. In short, the resilience of the economy depends in part on local territories and elected officials. I welcome the unwavering commitment they have shown since the spring and encourage them to continue along this path. The State must trust them and rely on them to ensure the success of the France Recovery Plan: it must play a role of facilitator and accompanier to disseminate and decline the recovery plan as close as possible to the realities on the ground. It seems to me that this finance bill fully meets this imperative: never will the stimulus plan have relied so much on the territories. By voting last July for the exceptional DSIL of EUR 1 billion, we have created a tremendous lever for recovery. Think that, for 1 euro of allocation, the municipalities and their groups commit, on average, almost 5 euros of investment! In addition to this exceptional SIDS, the Recovery Plan includes several other community supports, including support for community energy renewal, which we welcome. With regard to the narrower scope of the "Relationship with local authorities" mission, the funds allocated to DTER, DPV and DSIL outside the recovery plan remain stable. The DSID is increasing by €55 million. We welcome these arrangements. The increase in payment appropriations foreseen in 2021 reflects the maturity of the investment allocations. While we fully support the appropriations proposed this morning, we are, however, putting forward several questions and proposals. First of all, we fear that the exceptional DSIL will lead to too high a concentration of credit in the major cities. We would have preferred a fairer distribution of credits between DETR and DSIL. In addition, the very short deadline for the submission of files, while the health situation has deteriorated, may further reinforce this imbalance. The beneficiaries could be the largest communities, which have the necessary human and technical resources and sometimes already well advanced projects, leaving aside our small communes, which are indispensable for a recovery project by the territories. I know, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs, that you will be attentive to this risk and want to assure you of our full support here. I would also like to refer to FCTV, first of all welcoming Article 57, which provides for the gradual entry into force of its automation. Already postponed twice, this measure should facilitate its management at all levels. The VATCF is one of the main investment aid to local and regional authorities and a strong leverage to be exploited in the context of economic recovery. In order to support investment in our territories, it would be wise for VAT reimbursement through the VATF to take place in year n+1, not in year n+2, for all beneficiaries – at least those who get the refund during the current year of course. I hope that we can start this work with the ministers in the coming months. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] While keeping these perspectives in mind, the Group of the Party of European Democrats and Related Democrats will vote for the appropriations for this mission, which are in a position to contribute to the revival and transformation of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u9	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u10	Local authorities were the first bulwark to deal with the consequences of the covid epidemic-19. Many of them distributed masks to their inhabitants, most often free of charge, while the state was struggling to assume even the equipment of health facilities. They have also often replaced him to provide EHPADs, Liberal nurses and city doctors with some FFP2 and overblouse masks, which they lacked to protect themselves and to carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u12	Out of necessity, the most popular municipalities have often gone further by organizing food distributions or by exempting social park tenants or small traders from rent – a significant financial effort for them. At the same time, they suffered a significant drop in their tax, state or tariff revenues, between school canteens and closed coffee terraces and private tourist hotels, a net loss estimated for all the communities at EUR 5 billion by the excellent report – albeit of course prior to the second confinement – by our colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve. In this regard, we deeply regret the weakness of the community resource guarantee scheme introduced in Article 21 of the PLFR3. We denounced it, and the review of the draft implementing decree by the local finance committee confirmed it: only 2,500 communes, out of the 12,000 to 14,000 announced by the Government, will benefit from it, and for very modest amounts. It was therefore unsurprising that the Local Finance Committee – CFL – opposed it. By failing to take account of the loss of tariff revenue, estimated at EUR 2.3 billion, and by reducing the revenue losses from the increase in taxation, you have omitted the fact, Madam and Mr Ministers, that a primitive budget is built on the basis of the tax products expected, not those that were previously collected. As budgets must be balanced, the expected increase in taxation is not an additional resource but simply covers planned spending. As a result, you have undermined the cash flow of some communities in high stress. Their contribution to the recovery through investment will be very uncertain. In addition to these revenue losses, some local and regional authorities are facing an explosion in their operating expenses, beyond those directly related to the covid-19. This is obviously the case for the departments, with a sharp increase in the number of beneficiaries of active solidarity income – RSA – since the beginning of the year. In October 2020, the increase was already at an average of 9%, with for example a peak of 12.3% in Seine-Saint-Denis, an increase of almost 60 million euros in a poor department which already bears a balance of 215 million for the financing of this competence. We note with satisfaction the letter sent by the Prime Minister to the elected representatives of the department, which opens the door to experimenting with a renationalisation of the financing of the RSA in 2022. This represents a real step forward. However, we must allow all departments to cope with the wave of additional contractors that emerged in 2020 and 2021. However, while the PLFR4 finally provides for 200 million payment appropriations for the financing of the RSA for 2020, nothing is foreseen at this stage for 2021, while most of the effort is ahead of us, as unfortunately evidenced by the surge in unemployment in the third quarter, with 9% more job seekers. As in committee, we will table an amendment on this. The appropriations of the PLF for 2021 are completely inadequate in view of the context which I have just recalled. With regard to equalisation, which is still to be described as vertical when it is very horizontal, we of course support the EUR 90 million increase in the DSU and the DSR. We regret, however, once again, that its financing is made by crumbling the lump sum allocation, which leads many municipalities to self-finance all or part of the progress of their own equalization. For this reason, and in view of the financial consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, this year we decided not to introduce an amendment to increase vertical equalization such as horizontal equalization. As we mentioned in committee, particularly during the debate on the contribution of municipalities rich in negative DGF, and as Christophe Jerretie pointed out earlier, we have reached the limit of what could be done in the absence of a profound reform of the allocations to local authorities and of local taxation. I regret that the current majority has made the same mistake as the previous one by not undertaking this work at the beginning of the mandate, which may result in the postponement of such reforms beyond 2022. On the other hand, I welcome the work we have done with the rapporteurs on the necessary developments in the DETR, in continuity with the report we have presented. Even if we do not agree on all these developments, I am satisfied that we can begin a reform of this allocation this year. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In spite of our work on these technical projects, you will have understood that the appropriations allocated to the mission seem to be too insufficient for the Socialist and related Group Members to be able to vote on them as they stand. However, the adoption of some of our amendments could change the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u13	That's nicely said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u14	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u15	The mission we are looking at this morning is of particular importance in view of the essential role played by local and regional authorities during this pandemic, which greatly affects their level of revenue and expenditure. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes first of all the general increase of 12.88 per cent in the payment appropriations allocated to this mission, which reflects the Government's clear desire to support the most fragile local and regional authorities, in particular through equalisation allocations. Of course, it was absolutely necessary to maintain the funds allocated to these mechanisms within the DGF in 2021. This increase also illustrates the Government's choice to rely on local and regional authorities to support and support the recovery. As we know, they are the strong link that allows us to carry out structural projects in our territories. We therefore welcome the sustainability in 2021 of the amount of funding allocated last year to the two powerful local investment levers, DSIL and DETR. However, at this stage I should like to make a few regrets. With regard to the billion of the exceptional DSIL voted in PLFR3, we welcome, of course, the fact that all commitment authorisations not consumed in 2020 are carried forward to 2021. We are, however, surprised that only EUR 100 million of payment appropriations have been foreseen, while many files have been submitted and work could begin very quickly. We then regret the inadmissibility of some of our amendments aimed at extending the eligibility of the DSIL to municipal trade unions and mixed trade unions composed of municipalities and public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – even though they are eligible for the DETR and are solid, investment-bearing structures. I am thinking in particular of the trade unions exercising the competence of GEMAPI – water management and flood prevention – or of the inter-communal unions of educational grouping. Finally, we regret that our requests to standardise VAT recovery through the VATF mechanism have remained a dead letter, although, as we know, this provision would have been an additional asset in supporting local investment. This closed parenthesis, the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" plays an important role in supporting these communities, struck by public disasters. In this respect, the appropriations allocated in the PLF for exceptional grants, amounting to 40 million in commitment authorisations and 30 million in payment appropriations, seem insufficient. The recent disaster in the Vesubia Valley and the proliferation of extreme weather events must invite us to ask ourselves now about the strengthening of these mechanisms, which will be increasingly required in the future. Finally, the health and economic crisis we are currently experiencing does not produce the same effects everywhere, in a uniform way. The slowing down or even halting of tourist activity in too many territories significantly obsesses the finances of some municipalities and of some EPCIs. Thus, in my constituency, a community of agglomerations that derives 85% of its tax and economic revenues from tourism anticipates very high revenue losses, of the order of 10 million in 2020 and much more in 2021. The situation could therefore be critical for these communities. As Mrs Pires Beaune said a few moments ago, the safety net is probably not an effective remedy. They will therefore have to be accompanied if we are to prevent them from being placed under guardianship. We have therefore proposed, through several amendments, to strengthen the exceptional grants to municipalities in difficulty provided for in programme 122 to the tune of 10 million, not 2 million as foreseen by this PLF. I know, Madam Minister, that I can count on your kind attention to effectively support these communities. By the dawn of 2021, the challenges facing local and regional authorities were emerging. One of them, less visible and yet at the heart of their concerns, focuses on our local tax model. Indeed, although local and regional authorities have seen the effects of the various reforms – in particular that of production taxes –compensated against the euro, it is the principle of their fiscal autonomy that has again been called into question. For our part, we are fully convinced that we will not be able to avoid reform if we are to bring communities' financial self-sufficiency objectives into line with the support mechanisms in our territories and the necessary rationalization of public spending. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] However, the "Acting Together" group will vote unreservedly for the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u16	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u17	The examination of the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" is obviously taking place in an extremely specific context. The uncertainties they raise are even greater than in previous years. Local and regional authorities, whether communes, intercommunalities, departments or regions, have been at the forefront of the emergence of the unprecedented covid -19 epidemic, a health crisis that no one had anticipated. It extends and renders the strategies developed by the State to support local and regional authorities in their budgetary trajectories somewhat obsolete. In the report submitted this summer by Jean-René Cazeneuve, the revenue losses of the communities related to the covid-19 crisis were estimated at about 7 billion, a figure that is no longer relevant because of the second confinement, a new situation that we must take into account. I'm coming to your strategy. The IDU and independent group understands, of course, that the Government, in support of local and regional authorities, is advancing the equalization allocations of the DSU and the DSR by €90 million each, but this is done in a stable overall DGF envelope. It may be necessary, in a forthcoming Finance Amendment Bill, for the state to abound this FMD envelope, because targeted equalization measures only affect a limited number of communities. Of course, the communities concerned have centrality responsibilities. They have therefore had to bear both losses of revenue and additional expenditure directly related to the health crisis and the resulting economic crisis, and their operating expenses will clearly increase sharply. But this is also the case for communities that do not have these centrality charges and are not eligible for DSR or DSU. They have seen some public services shut down while their operating costs and fixed charges have not decreased. The gap between state support and the reality of their budgets will widen. This can put them in trouble. The second major pillar of the State strategy is strong support for local investment. We welcome the progress of DETR and DSIL in this regard, but this support only makes sense if the communities concerned can continue to invest heavily. They have been able to do so so so far, but what about tomorrow if their self-financing capacity, linked strictly to the ratio between their expenditure and their revenue, decreases sharply by the effect of the economic crisis? They will no longer be able to invest and, as a result, the leverage that you intend to generate, Minister, will not be as important as desired. Hence our call to rebalance this strategy, between support for operations and support for community investment. Another example relating to the functioning of communities, that of the high-age premium, attributed by decree to caregivers working with the elderly, including territorial agents since some communal centres for social action – CCAS – run EHPADs, which we welcome. Today, there is no certainty that the State will compensate for the payment of this premium, which, however, amounts to 118 euros per month per agent and will therefore weigh very heavily on the budgets of the communities. We also call for guarantees of compensation by the State for this measure, which we support. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] Overall, the IDU and independent group supports your strategy, Madam Minister, by calling for inflections in a future budget if not possible from now on. We will vote for the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u18	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u19	As is the case every year, the review of the appropriations for this mission gives us an opportunity to discuss the financial relations between the state and the communities, a subject which, as we all know, goes far beyond the framework of this mission and even of this budget. This is a reminder of the measures to be taken by the communities decided in particular in the third and fourth budget collectives to deal with the emergency. These include advances of transfer rights for payment to the departments, additional deciles and a clause to safeguard the tax and public revenues of the municipal block. It is true that some of these budgetary initiatives have deflated somewhat: we learned at the end of October that of the EUR 750 million safeguard clause, only EUR 250 to 300 million would actually be paid in 2020. A smaller than expected decrease in revenue is highlighted, but this differential calls for, like your decision, Madam Minister, to open only EUR 100 million of payment appropriations in 2021 for the exceptional allocation of support for local investment, whereas EUR 1 billion had been opened in the third amending finance law. I would point out that in total, the financial impact of the crisis was estimated before the second confinement, in particular by the Special Rapporteur Cazeneuve, at at least EUR 6 billion. In the PLF for 2021, compensation related to the impact of the covid-19 crisis was absent. They have been somewhat strengthened in committee, through the support fund for small communes and the renewal of the solidarity fund of the departments. We will also follow closely the implementation of the agreement reached on 28 September between the State and the regions on the territorialisation of the recovery plan. While the Liberties and Territories Group of course welcomes this agreement, it is concerned that the promised co-piloting of investment policy will in fact be in the hands of the prefects, which, of course, we will dispute if this happens. Another direct consequence of the recovery plan on community finances is the reduction in production taxes. This reform, which aims to improve the competitiveness of enterprises, further undermines the financial and fiscal autonomy of local authorities. It comes as a result of other reforms – abolition of the business tax in 2010, phasing out the housing tax – and responds to the same logic. Among the different strata, it is once again the departments that are the worst off, their room for manoeuvre diminishing as they face the explosion of solidarity spending, first and foremost the income of active solidarity. The problem is old, but it is taking a dramatic turn: in 2020, the increase in RSA beneficiaries would be 10% at national level, 12% in Val-d'Oise, while the main tax resources of the departments are affected by the economic context, from 2020 for the DMTO and in 2021 for the CVAE, resulting in an unprecedented decrease in their self-financing capacity. In this context, Members of the Liberties and Territories Group will support amendments creating an emergency fund to help departments. We have taken note of the government's plan, which we welcome, to recentralise the RSA in Seine-Saint-Denis, but could you give us some information about your intentions, Madam Minister? I recall that during the previous quinquennium, an attempt to renationalize the RSA had failed. I also wanted to point out to you, Madam Minister, that while we must of course help the Seine-Saint-Denis department, the communes of the eastern part of Val-d'Oise are now facing even more dramatic social situations. However, this department does not receive any aid: since it also has a rural part, this fact is often forgotten. We, the Members of the Val-d'Oise, will collectively grasp this problem. I also wanted to warn you, Madam Minister, about the situation of the intercommunal communities in the vicinity of major international airports. For reasons that can be understood, as the activity of these airports has stopped, the revenues of these intercommunalities will fall drastically and so far the compensation funds are not up to what they can expect. I also remember another project that could not be completed in the previous legislature: the renovation of the endowments. The main staffing, the DGF, is both illegible – it is not my colleague Pires Beaune who will contradict me – complex and unfair. The Government adheres to its commitment to freeze this allocation, and that is good news in the current crisis, but it will, of course, be necessary that we can finally start this reform of the DGF, after the crisis, of course, because it is indispensable. The state will still have to be able to support the communities to date. More than 35 years after the major decentralization laws, local elected officials confirmed their managerial qualities. The crisis of the coronavirus was the demonstration: who had the ability to react quickly while adapting the measures to the specifics of the territory? Who has been willing to play their full part, and sometimes to remedy the shortcomings of certain State services? Who raised the demands of businesses and self-employed people in the face of the crisis? Who works with associations to help our most affected compatriots? Each time, local authorities responded. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] That is why we believe that giving local elected representatives the opportunity to act on fiscal levers is a democratic imperative within the framework of a fully decentralised republic. This also implies a reduction in the tax resources of the communities, but also in the financial assistance of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u20	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u21	We see from year to year a weakening of local and regional authorities due to the reduction in their budget, which is now reaching critical proportions. The shortfall in profits caused by successive downsizing amounts to $50 billion since 2014. The situation has deteriorated particularly since the beginning of the quinquennium, in particular because of contracts to control local expenditure. These contracts have imposed on communities, under penalty of extremely high financial penalties, to keep the increase in their operating expenses below 1.2%. In 2022, the cumulative shortfall due to this reform would amount to about 40 billion euros since 2018, not 13 billion as the Government claims, and that is not to mention the removal of the housing tax on the main residences, including for the most fortunate 20%. In this regard, the Senate's projections show that housing tax revenues would have increased by another €4 billion in 2020 if it had been maintained. As a result, the loss of profits for the municipalities in 2023, the year of its complete abolition, is likely to be much greater than the €17 billion set aside by the Government. To these budgetary problems is added the health crisis linked to covid. The revenue loss is estimated to be roughly €7.5 billion for 2020, i.e. 3.2 billion for the municipal block, 3.4 billion for the departments and 1 billion for the regions. Forecasts are at best the same for 2021. These losses would account for more than 20% of net savings in communities, according to our colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve. The Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunality – AMF – estimates that the cost of the health crisis will amount to 8 billion euros over three years for the municipalities, of which almost 6 billion will be in 2020. As for the departments, they are likely to see a sharp increase in their social expenditure in the short term, whether for the financing of the RSA, for the contribution to the EHPAD tariffs, or for the support of associations and businesses. Currently, the departments spend €38 billion on social expenditure, including €11 billion on RSA. These expenditures are expected to increase from 9 per cent to 14 per cent. Therefore, the question of government ownership of the RSA arises. Prime Minister Jean Castex has also announced an experiment on his state ownership in Seine-Saint-Denis, a department that will have 90,000 beneficiaries of the RSA at the end of 2020, i.e. a budget of 500 million euros for this single item of expenditure. That's a pretty good thing. The La France insubmissive group considers that this renationalisation is positive and should be extended to the whole territory, however preserving the management capacity of the departments. The government is communicating, under the PLF, an increase of €1.2 billion in state financial assistance to communities next year, including an increase of 1 billion in appropriations for the thermal renovation of municipal and departmental buildings. However, the provision of equipment in rural areas, the provision of support for the investment of the departments and the political endowment of the city will remain broadly constant compared to 2020. Tensions are as usual important when it comes to calculating the compensation promised by the State. The AMF believes that, under the guise of a stimulus plan, the Government has reactivated its former project to replace local tax revenues with State allocations, which is considered to be a form of control over the communities as their resources will increasingly depend on its own decision. We know that the consequences of the social, health and economic crisis will unfortunately be sustainable, but also that our local and regional authorities, which are in direct contact with our citizens, must have the necessary funds to deal with them. However, according to the AMF, nothing is foreseen in the PLF to compensate the communal block for the tariff losses and new expenses caused by the crisis that we are going through. In June, Christophe Castaner, questioned by the senatorial delegation to the local authorities, acknowledged that the mayor-prefect binomium had shown its virtues and came out reinforced by this crisis: "The last few months have shown to the public the complementarity of our actions and the relevance of the prefect/Mayor couple to respond, as close to the ground, to the emergency situation" and to deal with the risks. It will now be necessary to match words and actions, particularly with regard to the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u22	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u23	Since March, local authorities have been at the forefront of this unprecedented health crisis: they are in the oven and mill to take care of the inhabitants, to assist the State in the implementation of measures to combat the pandemic, to provide masks when they are missing, to accompany the hospital and caregivers on the ground, to support the deployment of testing campaigns, to ensure the holding of markets, to devise solutions to continue the school, to maintain the care of children in out-of-school care and in crèches, when the decisions taken at the top of the State on economic activity sin. It is towards them, to the mayors, that the small traders and artisans turn when they are asked to close shop although they have taken all the precautionary measures necessary to welcome their customers; It is their local public services that often remain the only anchor of the Republic for all and everywhere, which meet the daily needs of the inhabitants. It is the small hands of the CASA and the departmental services of the RSA that bring solidarity to life while poverty is exploding in France. The best proof of the service rendered to the nation by the local authorities, by the municipalities, at the heart of this crisis came from the proclamations taken from the state summit on the indispensable character of the mayor-prefect couple. Suddenly, with his hand on his heart, in a sort of remake of Bourgtheroule at the time of the roundabout crisis, the executive power remembered the mayors – neglected, neglected, little considered –, affirming in the newspaper of 20 hours their indispensable character and stressing the urgent need of the level of proximity, that of the commune and its ediles, to confront the pandemic, to confine, to make the most appropriate health decisions. The State has thus rediscovered this year that the Republic was walking on two legs: its own and that of the communities. In these circumstances, it could be expected that the budget for 2021 would come from a single year 2020, which would test the simple but cardinal lesson that it was essential to strengthen this second leg, in order to give it the means to continue to move forward. Las, the communities are going to reconnect next year with a form of ungrateful state that demands a lot, helps a little and controls too much – or even hinders – the movements of this indispensable leg, bridging its autonomy. After the failure of the municipal elections first, the Senates then, the Government could have wondered about its difficult relationship with France of proximity, about the link of democracy embodied in the communities. Instead, it is their guardianship that continues, the gradual suffocation of their financial autonomy. After the removal of the housing tax, including for the richest, you return to the charge this year. The bill is growing to promote your supply-side tax policy: 10 billion a year less local economic revenues with reductions in so-called production taxes, the CVAE and the CFE. And you again charge local authorities for these somewhat unilateral choices. The bill also extends the measures against their autonomy: centralisation of the 2.3 billion local tax revenues on final electricity consumption, complete non-compensation, as the excellent Cazeneuve report has shown, of the 5 billion revenue losses for the communities in the face of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u24	[[Smile]] It's your fault, Jean-René!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u25	The bill increases with the health crisis, and yet the state will not compensate for all the losses: nothing on the rate losses, while hundreds of municipalities have seen casinos closed – I have three in my house –, municipal campsites – I have many – and swimming pools, especially those managed by public service delegation. Nor is there anything to compensate for the loss of community rate power. The bill is growing longer and there is no plan to extend the local finance safety net: only 250 million euros, while the losses of 2020 have not all been wiped out and the crisis will continue to hurt local budgets in 2021. Not content to attack tax autonomy, you do not say – as the Special Rapporteur has pointed out – the whole truth about the state's contribution: with a further slight decrease of 90 million euros, the DGF remains frozen at its 2013 level and does not integrate the negative effects of inflation or the effects of population growth. By 2020, 14200 municipalities had seen their DGF fall by more than 1%, of which 6500 were more than 5%. I must stress our satisfaction with the doping of the DSIL and the DETR, even if the budget entries will have to confirm this; But overall we are witnessing a decline in resources. Community investment could fall by 5.8% in 2020 and by 2021, spending contracting will be on hand, foreshadowing the return to austerity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is a combat budget that would have been necessary to empower municipalities and other communities to play their role, to take care, to implement solidarity, social justice and the ecological transition. An equalization system should have been built to ensure the presence of public services and the Republic everywhere and for all. That is the opinion of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left on the budget you are presenting to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u26	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u27	For 2021, the budget of the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities" is EUR 4.1 billion in commitment authorisations. We have found constants over the past three years and specific measures to support local and regional authorities' response to the pandemic and to the recovery plan, in which communities play a major role alongside the state. Recall that two specific actions were created in 2020 to support local authorities in the face of the health crisis: the exceptional competition for the purchase of masks and the exceptional abundance of DSIL to the tune of 1 billion euros to start the territorialisation of the recovery plan and support the ecological transition. It should also be noted that the Cazeneuve mission stressed the scissors effect which, once again, affects the departments with the increase in social expenditure, even if we will have to look at the evolution of DMTO's revenues on a case-by-case basis. For the municipal block, the differences between loss of revenue and expenditure dynamics will also have to be taken into account. The Cazeneuve mission estimated the possible net losses of the territorial authorities at 5 billion, but as of 2020 we voted for a safeguard clause for fiscal and state revenues based on an average of the years 2017-2019, as well as a repayable advance from the state on DMTO revenues and a guarantee of resources for the overseas regions and territorial authorities. At the same time, the Government has set up a mechanism for spreading charges and resorting to borrowing, the so-called covid account, for exceptional operating expenses related to the crisis. Finally, the additional DSIL billion must be added to the 4.2 billion additional support provided for in the recovery plan. In all, this year, nine of the fifty-two articles of the PLF are of direct interest to local and regional authorities. The least we can say is that the state is on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u29	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u31	[[Special Rapporteur Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] This relativizes our debate on the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities: fiscal autonomy, of course; but decisive support from the state, to prevent the crisis, which directly and severely affects our fellow citizens, from being further translated into a surge in local taxes. State support is very good news for our local and regional authorities, but especially for our citizens. Also, the fall in regional, communal and inter-communal economic taxation, due to the reduction of 10 billion production taxes, which contributes to the recovery plan, will be offset by a fraction of VAT allocated to the regions for the CVAE, which is part of the CET – territorial economic contribution – and by a new levy on the State's revenue allocated to municipalities and inter-communalities for property taxes. Thus, the State's financial assistance to local and regional authorities for 2021 will be maintained at a historical level. Operating allocations will be maintained for the fourth year and communities will also benefit from the safety net, already mentioned, of the crisis-related safeguard clause. In the area of investment, they will benefit from the exceptional DSIL, the DSID, the DETR, whose mechanisms are fluidized at the request of local elected officials, and 546 million more for the FCTV, whose operation is automated. Finally, equalization allocations are also either stable, as is the case with the national fund for equalisation of intercommunal and communal resources – FPIC – or increasing, such as the DSR, DSU, intercommunal allocations or equalization allocations between departments and doubtless between regions; We'll get back to it. Finally, I was talking about constants: there is of course the end of the massive cuts in the operating allocations for the years 2013 to 2016, but also the commitments made to compensate for the reduction of the housing tax on the principal residence of our fellow citizens. With the maintenance of strategic zonings, it is an essential element in restoring confidence between the state and the elected representatives of local and regional authorities, which is being rebuilt step by step, for the benefit of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] The group La République en marche will also vote in favour of the appropriations of the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u32	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u33	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u34	The 2021 finance bill is in a context of uncertainty for local finances. The local elected representatives, some of whom we are still concerned, are concerned about the financial loneliness in which we leave the territorial executive of our country. Chronic instability and loss of visibility of community resources are difficult for elected officials and their administrations. We could take on board André Laignel, Chairman of the Local Finance Committee: "This PLF for 2021 is calamitous for the communities. It takes a decline in their freedoms, sets in place insufficient tax compensation, continues the rationing of endowments and does not compensate for the loss of revenue and costs caused by the crisis of the covid-19".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u35	Well, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u36	We said this before the crisis: the loss of €23 billion in housing tax revenues, which a second phase will gradually eliminate for the remaining 20% of taxpayers, is inappropriate. We can doubt the sincerity of a compensation to the euro, which has never been a temporary replacement to the downsizing of the resources of the communities. To this is added the reduction of the so-called taxes of production: a good measure, but taken brutally, out of any global reform of the resources of the local authorities...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u38	... particularly with regard to the business property assessment and the property tax on industrial built properties. In total, the decline in fiscal autonomy amounts to more than €3 billion. Finally, let us not forget the nationalisation of 2.3 billion euros of the local tax on final electricity consumption. This will result in an increase in the price of electricity for hundreds of thousands of taxpayers as tariff harmonization will be aligned with the highest tariff. In view of all these measures, the Group of the Republicans intends to oppose the temptation or even the recentralising obsession which is emerging in the way the allocations are allocated. Indeed, the various budgets show a systematic return to power of the central state. Of course, compared to last year, the draft finance bill announces an increase of EUR 4.8 billion, with a constant scope, of the State's financial assistance to local authorities, but in order to compensate for all the damage to the fiscal autonomy of the local authorities that I have just mentioned, the Government proposes only pipework mechanisms without ever presenting the great reform of the local taxation promised, expected and expected. We regret this logic, which simply removes local authorities' own resources and compensates them with a fraction of VAT. [[Laughs]] [["Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Instead of an ambitious reform, with a vision of the future and hope for our communities and their elected representatives, you present to the national representation a simple DIY – a vast game of dupes where the national taxpayer constantly replaces the local taxpayer. I mentioned the abolition of the CVAE and of the departmental share of the property tax on the beaten properties... pardon, built, which will be transferred from the departments to the communes: it is a revealing lapsus, since the resources of the departments will be breached! There are also decreases in revenues associated with the removal of the housing tax and the loss by the regions of the costs of managing this tax. In short, this text continues and amplifies the financial supervision of municipalities and intercommunalities. It contradicts the statements of the Government, in particular yours, the Minister, who regularly speak of territorial differentiation. How can we not see a contradiction between words and deeds when we bind the hands of local elected officials? When is a partnership made of mutual respect? When is the trust in local elected officials? When, for the francilian elected one I am, is a real clarification of the territorial levels, while in the metropolis of Greater Paris you let the budgetary chaos persist? The finding is cruel. The damage to the self-financing capacities of local and regional authorities will deprive them of their energy and agility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u39	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u40	The communes and intercommunalities which, in this period of crisis, could participate in the recovery plan will in fact show themselves to be sluggish. Indeed, on the ground, we find that the tone is rising, the local elected no longer knowing what sauce they are going to be eaten,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u41	We don't have the same ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u42	... submitted that they are to the good will of the prefects, who have control over the endowments, unaware if they will really be able to invest, as executive, without the assurance that they have the means, autonomy and resources necessary for decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u43	They are very happy to have received the DSID!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] With the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – the NOTRE law – coupled with the declines in endowments of the Netherlands years, which paralyzed the investment of the local authorities, with the uncertainty related to the covid-19 and the uncertainty related to the 3D bill, with the non-reform of local taxes, we are entering a new cycle of fears and apathy of investment for the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u46	That's not true...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u47	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u48	Joël Giraud and I are pleased to be with you today to examine the appropriations for the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities" and the related amendments. In listening to you, I was still thinking that when examining missions, we should always keep in mind the general context in which France's budget was drawn up. Here, it is the difficult, exceptional context of the covid-19. As a result, the barriers between the various financial laws and between the various missions have probably been broken. As far as local finances are concerned, the balances set out in the Finance Act for 2020 have already been significantly changed by the crisis and by the support measures adopted in the Third Amending Finance Act. I note that additional aid is also included in the year-end budgetary collective. In addition, the whole of the budget debate is marked by the discussion on the recovery plan, referred to by both sides, which provides for a major role for the territories. Thus, if credits for the benefit of communities are included in the "Relaunch Plan" mission and not in the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission, they fully share the same ambition. I would also like to recall, in response to the concerns expressed by some speakers, that what we have undertaken this year and are now proposing to you is not the end of history: the Government will continue to closely monitor the situation of local finances. As Jean-René Cazeneuve advocated in his report, often cited and which I congratulate in my turn,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u49	An excellent report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u50	... we will have to see again at the beginning of 2021 to take stock of 2020, in particular to draw the consequences of the new confinement. I would remind you, however, that we are at EUR 195 billion in deficit at the moment. With regard to the mission "Relationship with local authorities" and the associated revenue levies, I will highlight several trends. First of all, the PLF for 2021 confirms the guidelines adopted for more than three years, first and foremost the strengthening of the resources granted to local authorities. Indeed, since 2017, we have kept our commitments to local elected officials and first of all to stabilize their resources after four years of drastic downsizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u52	Next year, communities will even receive higher resources from the state than in 2020, with an increase in financial assistance of €1.2 billion in 2021, net of perimeter measures. This increase is first made possible by the stability of the main endowments over the past four years. The DGF is set at €26.8 billion in 2021, which is stable compared to 2020. This will also be the case for commitment authorisations mobilised for the DETR – EUR 1.46 billion – for the DSIL – 570 million – for the DVP – 150 million – and for the DSID – 212 million. The PLF also gives communities new means: credits to support the support measures provided for in the July Finance Act, the payment appropriations associated with the exceptional DSIL, the sums needed to feed, in 2021, and the safety net on tax and government revenues – I point out in passing, because I have heard the criticisms, that we can be pleased that the revenue losses and therefore the compensation are less than expected: it is rather good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u53	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u54	TVCF credits are expected to increase by 546 million next year, due to the high level of local investment in 2019 and early 2020. In total, the law will therefore open up more than €6.5 billion in appropriations on this line. I would also point out the positive effect of a measure adopted in the first part, whereby the State will directly support the transfer rights equalisation fund for consideration between departments, at an estimated cost of EUR 60 million but which, of course, if the needs are greater, will be higher. The Government will propose to amend the first part of the PLF in the Senate to guarantee the guarantee funds of the departmental funds for the distribution of the DMTO of the small communes, those of less than 5000 inhabitants, at an estimated cost of between 15 and 50 million euros. Finally, the fourth draft law on amending finance opens up 200 million euros of appropriations to abound the stabilization fund of the departments, a fund whose amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve proposes the reactivation. The Government will, of course, give a favourable opinion on this amendment. In addition, advances are planned for the mobility organising authorities – AOM: 750 million for provincial AOMs, and in parallel 1.2 billion euros for Île-de-France Mobilitys. More broadly, in addition to the appropriations for this mission, appropriations from the "Relaunch Plan" mission, for example €950 million of new funds for the thermal renovation of municipal and departmental buildings. Second point: to support the investment, the VATCF payment procedure will be automated from 2021 onwards. Some of you rejoiced, starting with Christophe Jerretie. In concrete terms, starting in 2021, we will gradually move from a refund system based on paper files to an automated refund. The implementation will be carried out gradually, this has been recalled, in order to verify that the new procedure is working properly and does not entail any additional costs compared to the current regime. It will therefore initially concern only those communities whose expenditure is eligible for VATF in the year in which they are realised. At the time of recovery, this is a welcome step, particularly for small municipalities that will no longer have to fill in these documents and will therefore have less administrative burdens. The third point: in addition, we propose strengthening solidarity between territories in the distribution of the DGF, solidarity more than ever on the agenda with the crisis. The figures have already been mentioned: 220 million euros, plus 90 million for the DSU and also for the DSR, 30 million for the allocation of intercommunality and 10 million for the equalisation of departments. I stress that this deepening will also greatly benefit the overseas municipalities. You remember that a catch-up was decided last year to gradually adjust the insufficient amount of the overseas equalization, paid through an endowment called the DACOM – development endowment for the overseas communes and territorial districts. Mr Reda, the Local Finance Committee, chaired by Mr Laignel, had drawn up a catch-up scheme in five years, which made it possible to allocate last year to the municipalities of the DOM – overseas departments – 11.5 million euros more than usual. However, we propose to speed up this dynamic in order to take account of the effects of the crisis on the already fragile finances of the municipalities of the DOM, by achieving, in 2021, one third of the remaining catch-up. DACOM will therefore increase by EUR 17 million. In the fourth point, I will mention another aspect of the PLF: to adapt, as every year, the mechanisms for allocating financial assistance to take account of reforms. In this case, we are committed to renovating the calculation of financial indicators to take account of the reform of local taxation, so that it does not have any impact on allocations. The amendments proposed by the Government are those submitted to the Local Finance Committee last July, which had received its approval. They're two orders. A first reconstructed in fact functional indicators by integrating the new compensation resources – I am of course thinking of the removal of the housing tax. A second neutralizes the consequences of the first on the level of indicators, while leaving the dynamics free. Technically, the article provides that a correction fraction equal to the difference between new and old products, i.e. the pure edge effect of the reform, should be removed from each indicator. Of course, these parameters can be completely reopened. I propose that they be in the CFL and Parliament next year before the new system comes into force in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u55	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u56	Is it already over?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u57	[[Smile]] Yes, for two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u58	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] So I'll just say that I can't finish without mentioning the concerns you've raised... But I will respond to that when the amendments are discussed, and I would be happy to provide further details.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u59	We come to the questions. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u60	My question is about the DSID for 2021. This endowment was created in 2019 to replace the overall equipment endowment – CEO – and covers a broader scope: the CEO was in fact targeting very specific points in the capital expenditures of the departments. This flexibility helps to support most of the projects carried out by the departments, e.g. the renovation of colleges or public service houses, and thus also to avoid the dusting observed with the DGE. In 2021, the choice was made to strengthen payment appropriations; We welcome this will. However, do you not think that this success invites us to continue to take charge of the DSID by perhaps taking into account environmental criteria to encourage the renovation of departmental buildings, such as colleges? More broadly, the investment of the departments will be under pressure in the coming months, due to a scissor effect between declining revenues and rising social spending. Does the State intend to encourage departments in this challenge?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u61	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u62	Thank you for this question about DSID. As you point out, its creation in 2019 was a considerable step forward compared to the CEO, which was distributed fairly unfairly and on very constrained spending fields. You rightly say that the DSID is dedicated to important investments in the departments. The option was not chosen to amplify the effect of the DSID itself, since it is still set at €212 million in commitment authorisations in 2021. On the other hand, of the €950 million for thermal renovation of buildings, €300 million is directed towards the departments. Since a number of colleges are thermal coffers, these 300 million will be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u63	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u64	The allocation, in fact, is being increased from €212 million to €512 million, with a shift towards the appropriations I have just indicated, but this will be very beneficial to the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u65	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u66	The current health crisis is cataclysmic, not only for businesses, associations, households, but also for public finances, especially those of communities. Since the beginning of this quinquennium, we have been witnessing, even before the crisis, a blow to territorial democracy. At every financial law, we have moved further away from the fiscal autonomy of the communities, but also from the financial autonomy that was enshrined in the 2003 constitutional review. Communities, from year to year, are increasingly collecting less own resources and receiving more and more state allocations, thereby increasing their dependence on the latter. All the reforms undertaken are in this direction for the time being: the abolition of the housing tax, the reduction of the property tax on built properties and of the CFE, or, this year, the reduction of half of the CVAE and the re-centralisation of various taxes such as the electricity tax to DGFIP – Directorate-General for Public Finance. Each time, of course, these are offset by levies on State revenue, by the transfer of a fraction of VAT which you will agree is in fact only an annexed appropriation. There is no question of a territorially-based tax that would truly constitute a start to the fiscal autonomy of the communities. To sum up, the only taxes that communities could decide responsibly by themselves, this quinquennium simply removed them. The upward trend since 2003 of the ratio of financial autonomy of local authorities, announced by the Observatory of Local Finance and Public Management, is only illusory: the very definition of own resources is far too broad – Charles de Courson and Christophe Jerretie have shown this very well in their 2018 report – since it includes not only the tax resources over which the communities have some power, but also those over which they have no control. Communities are currently no more or less than government endowment managers; We are far from the accountability put forward by the President of the Republic and which should be reflected in the 3D bill we are waiting for. Isn't the enormous crisis we're going through an opportunity to thoroughly reform the public finances of communities? To avoid the fragmentation of the community budget debate, which is detrimental to its consistency and readability, are you prepared, Minister, to introduce an annual law on the financing of local and regional authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u67	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u68	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The President of the Republic announced in his election campaign that he would abolish the housing tax, and he kept his commitments. If this tax has been removed, it is for the French. And I haven't seen many mayors campaigning at the municipalities by advocating the restoration of the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u69	It's not up to them to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u70	This is not their responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u71	There's been a drop in production taxes, but it's due to the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u72	No, it's been two and a half years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u73	And all this is compensated, you know, since you are sitting in a community that is both a department and a region: offset by VAT for production taxes and property taxes for the housing tax. We have drawn the consequences of the shortcomings of past systems, such as the abolition of the professional tax – I was mayor at the time – by providing for a dynamic mechanism, which will adapt to the changes of the local bases. [[Laughs]] I hope this is going to last. You'll have to elect the same majority to make sure it lasts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u74	There's another way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u75	The best proof of this is what we have been doing in the last four years, as we are still delivering on the commitments we have made. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I agree that an annual debate in Parliament on local finance should take place ahead of the PLF. I've always been, I'm saying it loud and clear again. We need to make it clearer and more comprehensive all that the state does with local and regional authorities in financial terms – and I do not think that we will be blamed for what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u76	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u77	Several Members referred to this in the discussion, with the weakening of community finances reaching critical proportions. The health crisis aggravates this situation and the social expenditure of the departments, particularly those linked to the RSA, is increasing sharply. As I said, the renationalization of its funding by maintaining management in the departments seems to us to be in the right direction. In our view, this loss of revenue will compromise the investment capacity of communities over the next few years. However, there is an urgent need for an ecological bifurcation. The Climate Action Network estimates that the public investment needs of the communities amount to at least 1.7 billion euros by 2023 for the municipalities, just for the transport, energy and building sectors. According to the same estimates, investments should be increased to EUR 3.1 billion annually over the period 2024 to 2028. Can you tell us how you are going to enable communities, despite their budgetary problems, to respond to the ecological emergency we face?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u78	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u79	I would like to remind you one thing: if we look at the level of investment in local authorities since 2016, it has increased from 53 to about 67.5 billion last year, which means that the level of investment in local authorities has grown significantly and that the policy is therefore not necessarily bad, since it has allowed investment to be made to a considerable extent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u80	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u81	To support community spending, the government will commit resources. Future contracts with local authorities will be green recovery and transition contracts, and rural contracts, which will retain this name, will nevertheless include the same obligations as conventional green recovery and transition contracts. I recall the resources that will be made available: €6.5 billion of FCTV in 2021, €2 billion of DSIL, DETR, DSID and DPV, €950 million of thermal renovation credits in the recovery plan, €600 million for the regions, an exceptional DSIL 1 billion, and FNADT's credits for local investments will be 2.5 billion higher than normal years. I believe that this is clear on the ground, since of the billion euros of exceptional DSIL, 320 million euros are already committed. It is now a question of verifying that these means are well balanced on the territory, between urban and rural, but this is another debate. But the credits are there, especially for the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u82	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u83	In the context of the health, economic and social crisis that our country is experiencing and that is affecting the entire territory, state support for communities is important. The funds allocated to the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission reflect only part of this effort. In response to this crisis and the needs of the territories, many support tools are mobilized. I will not mention them all, only the significant increase in the DSIL, which is unanimously welcomed in our territories. My question is about the departments. In spite of this, there is also a strong and specific support – 200 million, plus 50 million for the most fragile – a strong scissor effect has been seen for many years. The deterioration of the economic and social climate will lead to an increase in the expenditure borne by the departments. The increase in RSA spending and the decline in revenues, such as DMTOs, add to this difficult environment. The recent recentralisation of the RSA in Mayotte, French Guiana and La Réunion has been a new funding modality relevant to these communities, in order to cope with the difficulties they face as a result of the rapid increase in their social spending. The experiment with the recentralisation of the RSA in Seine-Saint-Denis, which is expected to begin in 2022, pursues the same objective: to take over a substantial expenditure of national solidarity whose dynamics can no longer weigh on local taxpayers alone. Faced with this effect of scissors of the finances of the departments, which is very dominant in some of them, what is your analysis of the financial perspectives of the departmental councils? Do you consider that new ways of supporting departments could be envisaged, in connection with the future 3D law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u84	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u85	Thank you for that question. Everyone, I believe, is aware of the financial difficulties of the departments, linked to the scissor effect that you mentioned. However, I would like to point out that, in the third amending finance law, Parliament has authorised the opening of advance payments on the proceeds of the DMTO: 394 million euros have been disbursed to 40 departments. Why only forty? Because resources have been greater than expected in other departments, due to a reboot of sales. Two weeks ago, you also voted for an amendment allowing the state to abound the Department's DMTO equalization fund. That should be 60 million, I said. I stress that these two mechanisms are primarily beneficial to departments with high social spending. With Olivier Dussopt, we also authorized the departments to spread out the crisis-related expenses, including increases in the RSA, over five fiscal years. It's a very appreciated flexibility. We are almost daily in contact with the departments, with working meetings in which Jean-René Cazeneuve takes part. In the longer term, the Government is prepared to study the conditions under which the burden of the RSA could be taken over by the State. In response to Mr Pupponi, who asked me the question, I said that we would go through the experiment. A number of departments are in the process of moving forward, and there are even more departments. The Seine-Saint-Denis is often referred to, but there are others, including rural departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u86	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u87	I call the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", listed in state B. Ladies and gentlemen, we must consider 150 amendments on this mission and almost 1000 amendments on non-attached articles by Friday night. So I invite you to be concise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u88	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u89	Yes, it is. You have the floor, Mr de Courson, to support Amendment No. 477.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u90	[[Smile]] With Charles de Courson's intervention, it's starting well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u91	The real purpose of this amendment is not to reduce the payment appropriations allocated to the DSIL by EUR 50 million, but to go back to a problem which has been raised by the rapporteur in substance and by the draftsman. While the third amending finance law for 2020 provided for an amount of 1 billion commitment authorisations for the DSIL, the PLF for 2021 opens only 100 million payment appropriations. However, the Government is encouraging local authorities to speed up the recovery, which will be quite impossible with payment appropriations representing 10 per cent of commitment authorizations! Minister, how is this situation explained? Do you have any amendments to increase the payment appropriations of the DSIL, which should amount, at least, to 400 or 500 million? Local authorities will be in great difficulty if they do not, and will rightly protest that the promises made to them are not being fulfilled. I would add that the prefectures cannot afford to pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u93	Jean-René Cazeneuve and I asked ourselves the same question, which is also included in our information report. We have therefore tabled Amendment No 1525, which comes right after, in order to question the Government too on the gap between the PLF's 100 million payment appropriations for 2021 and the billion commitment authorisations for PLFR 3. As Mr. de Courson has just said, mayors and communities have made significant commitments following the announcement of the outstanding SIDS. It is our intention, of course, not to withdraw payment appropriations from another programme, but to alert the Government to this situation and to the need, in the next PLF, to increase the payment appropriations of the DSIL to a large extent. As Mr. Giraud has indicated, given the major investment plan of $10 billion, including FTCVA, more than $50 billion will be provided to communities to support the investment, which will allow for a "super-rebound" of the construction and public works sector and economic activity in general. We hope, however, that the Government will be able to reassure us of the increase in the payment appropriations of the DSIL, if not in the immediate, at least in the medium term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u95	I understand that these two amendments are more about questioning the Government than about amending the text. The question of sizing payment appropriations in relation to commitment authorisations is obviously a legitimate question. Please be aware that the Mission currently has the necessary reserves to meet the expenses incurred. The Government, however, makes a commitment to you to make a plethora of payment appropriations as soon as the first amending finance law for 2021 if necessary. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u96	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u97	I am satisfied with this answer, Secretary of State. The Group of the European People's Party takes the same view as Messrs. of Courson and Jerretie with regard to DSIL's payment appropriations. As I pointed out in my opening speech, we believe it is necessary to abound them, probably in PLFR 1 by 2021. Minister, Secretary of State, it is imperative that subsidies be paid quickly to local authorities – and not eight months or a year later, as is often the case – if you want them to accompany the recovery in 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u98	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u99	I support both of these amendments. Prefects invite mayors to go fast when they ask for DSIL. Special Rapporteur Christophe Jerretie stressed this, which is a consubstantial element of the role they will play in the recovery, since it will allow them to inject the money needed by the actors into the local economy. However, the multiplication of contracting tools – territorial contracts with regions, departments, intercommunalities – places the communes, at the end of the day, in the position of bankers: they are obliged to make cash advances for the benefit of larger communities, which puts them in unnamed difficulties. They are even sometimes obliged to make bankers for the state, which yet announced the payment of ringing and stumbling subsidies. There is an urgent need for payment appropriations to be in line with commitment authorities. It is the word of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u100	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u101	My aim, of course, was not, with this amendment, to reduce the already insufficient payment appropriations of the DSIL, but to obtain an answer. Secretary of State, 570 million commitment authorizations had been opened for DSIL in 2019. You have explained that this year's 100 million payment credits were enough because there are residuals, but the argument is not: 1 billion, it's almost double the 570 million! So you won't hold, even with postponements. According to the Special Rapporteur, payment appropriations traditionally account for 20 to 30 per cent of authorizations, and the Government is now asking local elected officials to accelerate! It is therefore 30% to 40% of payment appropriations that will have to be recorded, i.e. about 400 million – 300 million more than now. However, you do not have a margin of 300 million on previous payment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u102	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u103	Mr Jumel, you are spreading too much: it is still the state that is putting its hand to the pot. Moreover, the account of advances to local authorities is largely involved. Of course, communities play an important role in the control of works and in the control of works, but it is wrong to say that the state borrows from local authorities! Clearings and investment allocations have been subject to relatively high payment appropriations and commitment authorisations over the past three years. The prefects organize themselves at best and, if there are sometimes coracs, we think, together with Jean-René Cazeneuve, that the system works satisfactorily overall. After hearing the reply of the Secretary of State, I should like to point out that I am withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u105	A few clarifications seem necessary. If I spoke of reserves, it was simply because program 119 "Financial assistance to local authorities and their groups" opens up $3.75 billion in payment appropriations. I repeat, and I pledge to the Government, that we will allocate the necessary funds to meet the needs, depending on the consumption of the appropriations, in the context of the first or second PLFR for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u106	Mr de Courson, would you like to retain the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u107	No, Madam President. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u108	Amendment No 1525 by the Special Rapporteur was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u109	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1534.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u110	Rather than providing the exceptional ISIL with 1 billion commitment authorities and only 100 million payment credits, it would have been better to abound the traditional ISIL, whose timing is different. That is the meaning of this amendment. However, I want to go back to the previous discussion and the gap between program authorities and payment appropriations. Until 2015, they were the same, up to 50 million, but a gap subsequently widened, from 200 million first and even more from 2017. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, if the parliamentary mission undertaken this year continues in the future, it would be good if it followed the evolution of this gap: there is no reason why DETR appropriations, and only from this endowment, should have been expected for seven, eight, or even nine years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u112	I invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Pires Beaune. It deals with a recurring subject, which we discussed last year. As for the DETR, we alerted the Government to this issue in the spring of the evaluation. It is necessary to move faster today because more than 4.5 billion payment credits have been dragging in prefectures for four or five years. There is a need to accelerate the consumption of "remnants to be realized" for the benefit of local and regional authorities. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u114	The question you raise is relevant, Mrs Pires Beaune. It is not up to me to say whether the parliamentary mission will continue, but be sure, if so, that it will continue to benefit from the attentive listening of the Government. As for the amendment, on a slightly different subject, I would like to recall that the Government has committed to a stable amount of DSIL of 570 million for the quinquennium. This year, an additional $1 billion is planned in commitment authorities. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u115	Mrs Pires Beaune, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u116	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u117	On Amendment No 938, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1389.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u118	Local authorities play an important role in accelerating ecological forklifts. They could be useful in one particular area: public lighting. It accounts for 41% of communities' electricity consumption and 17% of their energy expenditure. However, 25 to 30% of public lighting is more than 25 years old. So there's a lot of work to do to help communities make the transition possible! According to a specialized study, investment needs would range from 9 to 10 billion for the 10 million light points in the French communes. In addition, communities will need to invest $1 billion in the coming years to comply with French and European regulations. This amendment is therefore an appeal amendment. I have of course noted the increase in the DSIL, Mr Special Rapporteur, and I welcome it, but I maintain that the municipalities sometimes serve as bankers to the state! This is the case for masks – we have still not been reimbursed. This is the case for urban renewal operations, those of the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU – and those of the public housing offices – OPH – notably: local authorities are often forced to advance the payment of the contractors, waiting for very long credits to come! I hope that the ANRU 2 will work better from this point of view. In short, I have examples to illustrate my point of view, but I don't generalize anything: it does happen that the state pays cash, it must be admitted honestly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u120	I too, Mr. Jumel, recognize that sometimes things are more difficult in some cases... With regard to public lighting, it is one of the often forgotten subjects with water, because they are secondary networks: communities and the State, through the aids it allocates, prefer to build roundabouts rather than to renovate public lighting. I have the same numbers as you, Mr. Jumel, when it comes to needs. I invite you to withdraw your amendment because it is a call amendment, but ecological transition and the modernisation of networks are at the heart of the priorities of many missions, communities and the state, through the DSIL. In any case, the modernisation of public lighting is necessary in terms of energy. Request for withdrawal, therefore, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u122	Very honestly, Mr. Jumel, the priorities given to the DSIL already fund the investments you are talking about in terms of public lighting. This is also the case with the DETR, provided that the commissions of elected representatives make a clear statement on the subject. I remind you that in 2019, DETR and DSIL financed 286 public lighting projects for €7.4 million and 120 projects for €10 million respectively. It does not seem necessary, therefore, to make a shift on a specific topic, especially since such a system would deprive the commissions elected by the DETR of their power in this field, which is granted by law. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u123	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u124	I hear those answers. However, I would point out to you, Mr Secretary of State, that the prefects, through instruction circulars on the DSIL and the DETR, have reoriented very strongly the use of these State endowments to deal with the health crisis, and that the prerogatives of the commissions of elected officials are in this area, as you know, very marginal. We often seek consensus, but in the end, when the prefect targets, for example, fire defences or school and refectory extensions in response to the health crisis, there is no room left to support other projects. As for the figures you are quoting, I take note of them, but they are inconvenient with the need of EUR 10 billion that I mentioned in my speech. I therefore withdraw the amendment, while hoping that you will take into account the stakes it raises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u125	You have the floor, Mr Jumel, to support Amendment No 1391.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u126	In the same vein, it aims to deal with another ecological issue, that of water losses due to leaks on the grid, which, as you know, represent 20% of the total water volume. In 2015, a parliamentary mission recalled that, across France, annual leakage losses amounted to nearly 1 billion cubic metres. In 2018, the network renewal rate was only 0.6% per year on average; At this rate, it would take 167 years to update the whole! It is clear, therefore, that there is a need to support communities more closely, more firmly and more quickly in this necessary effort. This is not only a national issue, but also a contribution to the problem of water scarcity on the planet as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u128	As far as water is concerned, the problem is a little different. First of all, we must not forget that the supplementary budgets allow us to invest on the principle of "water pays the water". As a result, communities must also provide funding for network renewal, but many have forgotten to do so, causing significant challenges. We must stress that. Secondly, developments have taken place in the last two legislatures thanks to numerous calls for projects, for example launched by ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency – to allow the renovation and renewal of networks. In addition, additional funds have been allocated. The problem has therefore been addressed, but there is a need to speed up. The water bases also allowed to put money on the table, I will not detail, and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations develops "aqua loans" at record rates, such as that of 30 million euros that we have benefited from in Corrèze, which is not insignificant. We therefore have effective tools, but we recognize the need to accelerate to meet this major challenge. The issue of water is also addressed in the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", certainly more appropriate to address the issue. Let us not forget, however, that the supplementary budgets are also made to provide for the investment, and, having been elected local, I know that many forget to do so while it would allow them to have low prices, thanks to the principle of "water pays the water". Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice, as before. A withdrawal would be wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u130	Mr Jumel, this is indeed a question parallel to the previous one. I will therefore not repeat the arguments that the scope of the DSIL should remain relatively broad. I would remind you, however, that investments in water are in the very long term. Financing them through water agency credits and borrowings therefore seems more appropriate than mobilising DETR and DSIL. However, local and rural projects that do not fall within the criteria of water agencies – which vary from one department to another – can quite well be financed under the DETR – 223 projects last year, for a total of almost 18 million euros – and the DSIL – which financed 25 for 6 million euros. I also believe that the fact that the annual circular on investment allocations gives priority to projects that contribute to the ecological transition favours those that relate to water and sanitation infrastructure. Request for withdrawal, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u131	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u132	I take note of your answers. Of course, I have not escaped the fact that water is the subject of supplementary budgets: this is part of my few budgetary concepts concerning local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u133	It's for general understanding!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u134	But it has not escaped me either that the elected representatives, when they have to balance their water budget, must also take into account the contributing capacities of the users of this public service. Water is not a commodity like any other: it is a precious good, a common good, of primary necessity, and equal access to this resource, especially for the most fragile populations, is an issue that local elected officials must take into account, including when balancing their annexed budget. That is why I believe that the State, if it is to play its role as protector and developer of the territory, which is supposed to ensure that the Republic is present everywhere and for all by applying a principle of uniform tariff equalization, must take up this matter. That is the meaning of this appeal amendment, which I withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u135	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1617 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u136	It aims to increase the DGD – general allocation of decentralisation – by EUR 4.1 million within the programme 119 "Financial assistance to local and regional authorities and their groups", in order to compensate for the transfer to the Eurométropole de Strasbourg of road-related charges carried out under the CEA law – the European Community of Alsace – which transfers competences to both the CEA and the Eurométropole. In accordance with the provisions of this Act, the compensation is equal to the average of the expenditure recorded over a period of five years prior to the transfer of powers for investment expenditure, and three years for operating expenditure. These expenses are tax-free and discounted based on the rate of non-tobacco inflation. The compensation entered in the draft finance law for 2021 is provisional: it is made on the basis of the periods 2015-2019 for investments, and 2017-2019 for operating expenses. A financial adjustment will be made in finance law for 2022 on the basis of the periods 2016-2020 and 2018-2020, to determine the final amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u138	We have not considered this amendment in committee; In my personal capacity, I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u139	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u140	I note that the compensation provided for in this amendment is provisional, as was, strictly speaking, the revenue levy of EUR 15 million organised by an amendment adopted in the first part of the draft finance law for the benefit of the European community of Alsace. Nevertheless, the method is surprising. With Rémy Rebeyrotte, we published a report a few weeks ago on the implementation of the Alsace law; It stressed that the local and regional authorities expected a budget of around 30 million euros, CEA and Eurométropole de Strasbourg combined. However, if we add the 15 million planned in the first part of the PLF to the benefit of the departments to the 4 million planned here, in the second part, to the benefit of the Eurométropole de Strasbourg, the total amounts to only 19 million. The parliamentarians of the majority justified this by repeating in the local press that the FCTV would also intervene. However, the fact that part of the transfer of powers can be financed by the FCTV poses a problem in view of the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. In fact, not all expenditures are necessarily eligible for TVCF, and one can very well imagine that the management of competence by the communities is likely to redirect some funds from investment to operation, and vice versa. In any event, the amounts are much lower than those required by communities and the government should have invested in this road network for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u141	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u142	To increase the amount of decentralisation for the European community in Alsace by EUR 4 million does not seem to us a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u143	It's for the Strasbourg Eurometropole, not for the CEA!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u144	In time for me. This allocation exists pursuant to a law passed in 2019, which provides for a transfer of the State's unlicensed national road network to the Strasbourg Eurométropole. We were opposed to this text, and we are also opposed to this amendment. Indeed, we believe that such a transfer of competence is not a good thing. The worst thing is that money is being taken from the 203 "Transport Infrastructures and Services" program of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" while millions are lacking, especially to strengthen the railway network, maintain small lines and develop the night train. This is a promise of the President of the Republic, and you said earlier, Madam Minister, in speaking of the housing tax, that the promises would be kept: I therefore expect them to be fulfilled. To experience it week after week since the beginning of the legislature, I must say that the situation of night trains is deteriorating, and we look forward to the development of the corresponding lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u145	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 938.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u146	It concerns an experiment to open the RSA to young people. The figures at our disposal show that we should expect an increase of more than 9% in the number of beneficiaries of the AHR in 2020; In some departments, such as the Seine-Saint-Denis, the increase is even stronger. INSEE expects France to have more than 1 million more unemployed by the end of 2020, and the number of households using food aid is expected to increase by 30% compared to last year. One in six students must work to live, in a context of mass unemployment. The situation, Madam Minister, is therefore alarming. The health crisis is now becoming an economic and social crisis, and we are witnessing an explosion of poverty. In view of this situation, this amendment aims to accompany an extension of the RSA to young people from 18 to 25 years of age, on an experimental basis, by providing the necessary funds to the voluntary departments for an amount of EUR 3 billion. Supporting businesses and a policy of supply is good, but it is crucial to support young people in the period of their lives when they have to train, and it is not only through apprenticeship contracts that we will do so. We therefore ask for these funds to help young people between the ages of 18 and 25: many of them find themselves in a very precarious situation, which obviously causes social inequalities but also inequalities in access to education and vocational training. Let's help companies, but let's also help the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u148	As far as the form is concerned, I do not think this amendment should be part of the mission 'Relations with local and regional authorities', and I think you know that very well, Mrs Cariou. I would like to point out that we have already mentioned this subject recently, perhaps on the occasion of the PLFR4 review: EUR 3 billion, of course, is much more than what we have for this mission, and it is an expenditure that is not acceptable. However, the subject of the RSA is already a problem at the departmental level. We must collectively take this into account to resolve it. An experiment is under way on this subject. Having followed the debates we have had in the Chamber for the past three weeks, I can then point out that the recovery plan contains 28 schemes which are available to the communities and which represent 30% of the appropriations of the Cohesion of the Territories mission, i.e. around EUR 10 billion. In this respect, therefore, many important elements are put on the table by the State. I'm not saying that's enough, but these are the first answers not to be overlooked. I therefore call for the withdrawal, firstly because this mission is not the place to debate a young RSA, even if we need to have a debate on youth, and secondly because we can consider it instead in the context of another more appropriate mission, perhaps the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", or possibly in the next PLFR, which will allow us to address the RSA more generally. For our part, we take note of your concern. We will of course have to discuss the RSA with the departments, so that it will one day be recentralised or abounded, because we know that its financing is a problem. Unfavorable notice or request for withdrawal, on the understanding that this is not the appropriate mission to discuss such a measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u150	I also give an unfavorable opinion. The problem you are raising, Mrs Cariou, is very real. I would remind you, however, that the Government has launched a specific plan, entitled "1 young person, 1 solution", with an envelope of €6.5 billion, which aims, first of all, to facilitate the entry of young people into working life, in particular through a boost to recruitment, which is a matter of speeding up; Secondly, to direct and train 200,000 young people towards the sectors and professions of the future; thirdly, to accompany young people away from employment by building 300,000 tailor-made integration routes. I refer you to the clarification that the Special Rapporteur has just given with regard to the provisions on the subject in the recovery plan and confirm that we are going to carry out an experiment on the RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u151	[[Protests on various benches]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will accept two contradictory statements, that of Mrs Cariou, and that of Mrs Cloarec - Le Nabour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u152	I also asked for the floor, Madam President! If that's how it is, I'll ask for a session suspension!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u153	If it starts like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u154	I will take into account your requests, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u155	What do you mean by "two sets of contradictory words," Madam Chair? One to defend the amendment, the other to oppose it? If that's the rules! Mr Special Rapporteur, on this finance bill we have tabled more general amendments relating to the RSA. Among other things, they were aimed at increasing allocations to departments, which had to cope with an increase of more than 5 per cent in the number of beneficiaries. But they were rejected. We are therefore using the review of the appropriations for this mission to come back to the issue of young people. Minister, not all young people have a vocation to learn, to join a business as young as 19 years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u156	Neither do young people have a vocation to enter a system of assistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u157	In life, there is a time for training and education. A student in mathematics, philosophy or nuclear physics will not necessarily go to a company to learn there; He has to do his studies and, for that, he needs a roof and must be able to feed himself. It is outrageous that this government does not rely on youth! In this time of unprecedented health crisis, we must support our young people. They represent the future of France, the future of a developed nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u158	The future is not social assistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u159	I heard you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm able to be flexible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u160	We had no doubt, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u161	I will therefore give the floor to one speaker per group. Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u162	[[Ms. Émilie Cariou protested]] Every week, the question comes back to the table; Every week, I intervene to point out that we do not have the same ambition as you for our young people. Let me say, please, I didn't interrupt you. The "1 youth, 1 solution" plan does involve many measures, which will be monitored and evaluated. During the review of the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission at the end of last week, the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration made a commitment to set up a working group to this end in conjunction with her cabinet. If the plan does not provide an appropriate response to some youth, i.e. if there are holes in the racket, we will be able to see it. I would also point out that the local missions, which accompany 1.5 million young people each year, do not at all highlight the question of a young RSA. Starting with an RSA is a strange prospect for young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u163	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Maybe there are holes in the racket. It is up to us to determine whether the planned measures are appropriate and effective. We will review our copy if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u165	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u166	Thank you for your flexibility, Madam Chair. That is correct, but the solution proposed by the authors of the amendment is very bad. We are all afraid that young people will be sacrificed because of the economic crisis following the health crisis. However, when you start your adult life at the age of 18, when you get into working life, there is still a different perspective than social assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u167	Yes! Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u168	What planet do you live on?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u169	[[Exclaims on various benches]] When one has just acquired one's majority, conquering one's freedom and autonomy, there is another prospect than being bottled with social aid! In 2009, Nicolas Sarkozy had the courage to create the young active RSA for young people who would lose their activity or decide to stop it, in particular to resume training. This is the meaning of the RSA: it is designed to compensate for a career accident in employment; It is designed for the assets, not for those who are training or begin working. As we look at the allocation of funds to local and regional authorities, I would add that it would be much more appropriate to help communities bridge the digital divide, promote youth mobility, including through driver's licences, and finance training,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u171	They're already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... in order to provide opportunities for young people and to avoid, as Martin Hirsch said, falling into the trap of social assistance, which only increases the poverty of the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u173	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u174	What planet do you live on?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u175	The planet France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u176	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What is good with the reacs or liberals you are, is that when you talk about those who have an empty stomach, who are starving, it awakens old reflexes in you: in your opinion, we are complacent in poverty, we even choose to be poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u177	Poverty is your electoral trade fund! That's why you're not helping us solve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u178	The Fondation Abbé Pierre demonstrated that 650,000 young people will not benefit from the aid announced by the Government. All the studies – Marie-George Buffet, rapporteur of the committee of inquiry on the effects of the crisis on children and young people, will soon present her report – show that young people are the first victims of coronavirus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u179	The first victims are young people who die!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u180	Young people have an empty stomach, and it is not a working group or a commission that will respond to this social emergency. The social cost will be much higher than the amount provided for the experimental device you mentioned, Mr. Special Rapporteur. For our part, we are in favour of an income of autonomy for young people, which incorporates all the dimensions we have mentioned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u181	You're the one who's reactionary! In 1968, at least, you fought for freedom! Populists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u182	... so that they can gain autonomy and integrate into employment. Young people are the first victims of job cuts in hotels and restaurants, of the destruction of precarious jobs. We propose – it is a question of dignity and solidarity – that they be the first to be protected in the face of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u183	You don't want young people to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u184	You are in luxury, calm and voluptuousness, and you love that. We are in the social reality of the territories, which we want to protect. Young people deserve us to be on the rendezvous now, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u185	Youth deserves something more than what you propose!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u186	She deserves something other than the RSA!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u187	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u188	The departments are at the forefront of RSA, and many of them are concerned about the plight of young people. Indeed, French youth is one of the forgotten. Cloarec - The Nabour spoke of possible "holes in the snowshoe". In fact, the snowshoe doesn't even have a sieve, it's just a huge hole! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we look at the way in which the countries of Europe treat their youth, we see that France is a good last, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u189	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u190	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I know that you will do the trial of the previous governments, but that is a reality, and you cannot turn those proposals aside, saying that we will have to study the issue or that you will direct the young people to the local missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to Mr Saulignac!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u192	In our country, I recall, almost one in two students must work to finance their studies, and among young people between the ages of 18 and 25, the unemployment rate is almost 25 per cent and the poverty rate is three times higher than among those over the age of 60. You can always refer us to a particular study and consider that assistance is not the right solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u193	Young people need work! For you, the solution is always assistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u194	And what do you do with family solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u195	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For us, one thing is certain: in the current context, if we do not deal with the issue very quickly, our company will sooner or later have to pay the bill, and its amount will be extremely high.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u196	We can't be further from reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u197	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u198	I am a little surprised at the nature of the debate. The amendment tabled by Mrs Cariou is rather an appeal amendment. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has repeatedly referred to the difficulties faced by young people and the need to take them into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u199	Everyone said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u200	Some have not been able to work this summer or find employment to finance their studies and therefore find themselves in a catastrophic situation. The amendment has at least one interest: its authors propose a solution, recommending that we go further to take account of these difficulties. With regard to the management of the RSA, Madam Minister, even if it is necessary to extend it to young people more than has been done, we must not be at the experimental stage in 2022; Now is the time to act! RSA will be increasingly solicited, and departments will not be able to pay. As for experimentation, it must be conducted in a transparent manner: we must know the selection criteria. We learn in the press that such a department has been retained, but we do not know how or why. What will be the criteria for support? The Committee on Finance should take up the matter and make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u201	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u202	On all the benches, we do the same constant: in France, the situation for young people is serious and will worsen further because of the health crisis and the resulting economic and social crisis. Nevertheless, young people between the ages of 18 and 25 are in very different situations. If they sometimes live in the same poverty situation, it is necessary to distinguish between those who have already had work experience and those who have not yet had work experience. When it was created, the RSA was designed as a safety net for people who are temporarily or longer-term away from employment. The main problem for young people between the ages of 18 and 25 is not that, but that of occupational integration and economic and social integration. So I don't think the RSA is the right tool. As Mr Pupponi has just said, this is an appeal amendment, a proposal. There is indeed a need to find a solution, which could be to strengthen certain mechanisms, including the youth guarantee managed by local missions, which favours the integration of children under the age of 25. I do not think that the RSA, whose connotation can be devalued for young people, is the immediate solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u203	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u204	To begin with, we cannot consider the RSA to be a living.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u205	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u206	Generally speaking, with an RSA, we don't have anything to live with. However, in this emergency situation for young people, it is necessary to help them. You know, as I do, young people with the most precarious situation are forced to work to finance their studies, which creates additional difficulties for them and often leads them to failure in these studies. This is a social inequality. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore support this amendment, even if we consider it necessary to bring about other solutions for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u207	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u208	My remarks will join those of Pascal Brindeau: we all see that there is a problem for our young people, but I do not think that the extension of the RSA to young people aged 18 to 25 would allow us to solve it. There is indeed a need to improve the vocational integration of young people. In this regard, the 2021 finance bill and the recovery plan already offer solutions that, I am sure, will bear fruit. The proposed measure in this case would cost EUR 3 billion, which would be taken from the budget for local and regional authorities. It would not be a gift to the departments, some of which already face great difficulties! Of course, we support the idea of accompanying young people, but this is not the right tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u209	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u210	The AHR was designed not for young people, but for people in difficulty. Keep in mind all the measures adopted by this majority in favour of young people, if only the increase in aid for free jobs, from 5000 euros per year over three years to 17000 euros! Today there are mechanisms to support young people, and it is important to stress the value of work: young people need to start their adult lives by working, not waiting for aid from the department, which in fact has something else to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u211	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u212	Without prolonging the debate, I would simply like to say to Mrs Émilie Cariou that the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", to which I referred, is not limited to learning; Its spectrum is much wider. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] Let me also tell you that learning is a great success and it concerns many branches, many training courses and all levels of study. And I do not agree with you at all when you say that some young people want to go to school, and not necessarily to learn. Apprenticeship, MP, is a form of study!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u213	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u214	I put to the vote Amendment No 938.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u215	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 120 Number of votes cast 114 Absolute majority 58 For adoption 11 Against 103
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u216	Reacs are the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u217	On Amendments Nos 1326 and 1327, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1531.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u218	It concerns the departments, which are objectively the most difficult communities, due in particular to the explosion of the number of RSA applicants in some of them. It aims to create an emergency fund of EUR 200 million to offset part of this additional financial burden. I tabled this amendment in committee and withdrew it to work together on this issue with Jean-René Cazeneuve, which unfortunately did not take place. I therefore present it again, after having improved it a little in order to avoid the effects of a boon. This fund should be able to benefit only the departments concerned by a substantial increase in the number of beneficiaries of the RSA and in which the expenditure associated with this solidarity grant represents a significant part of the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u220	This amendment had indeed been tabled and subsequently withdrawn for the benefit of possible joint work; It was the thing to do. The €200 million you want to allocate to this emergency fund are actually included in PLFR 4 for 2020 and will be carried forward to 2021. From a formal point of view, therefore, the appropriations you are requesting have already been granted. On the substance of the matter, the Government will certainly give you some information, but I would point out that it was decided to compensate for the abolition of the housing tax by granting the departments a share of VAT, amounting to EUR 250 million per year. This transfer of tax revenues was a sign of our understanding of the issues related to the AHR. This amount of EUR 250 million was not linked to a transfer of powers as such, but was intended to supplement the financing of this allocation. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u222	I consider this amendment to be satisfactory, because PLFR 4 provides for a total of EUR 200 million to cover these additional expenditure from the departments. Legally, however, we need to reactivate the stabilization fund created in 2019 to be able to allocate the funds in question. This is the subject of Amendment No 1627 by Jean-René Cazeneuve, which we shall be discussing earlier. Once this fund has been reactivated, we can, so to speak, close the loop. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment in favour of Mr Cazeneuve's.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u223	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u224	I agree to withdraw it for the benefit of Amendment No 1627, but I would like to point out that the additional expenditure associated with the RSA represents, I believe, EUR 53 million for the Seine-Saint-Denis alone. The sum of EUR 200 million does not seem excessive to me to come to the aid of departments which, whether you want it or not, will see their expenditure on RSA explode – it is enough to see the figures of unemployment in the third quarter of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u225	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1326 and 1327, which can be presented together. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u226	These amendments do not concern the same subject, but have the same purpose. The first concerns the "large age" premium, which, under the first implementing decree, was not paid to health-care workers in the territorial civil service. A second decree allowed the communities to allocate this bonus to the staff of the CCAS – communal centres for social action – and the territorial civil service, but without receiving compensation from the State. The logic is the same with regard to the salary adjustments resulting from the Ségur de la santé, the subject of my second amendment. Communities have been allowed to benefit health care workers in the territorial public service, but without compensation. However, the "large age" premium, such as salary increases, will weigh on the budgets of the communities. In order not to encroach on their own funds, these amendments are intended to ensure compensation from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u227	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u228	These two amendments have a logic similar to those relating to the RSA. We are talking here about a bonus and salary adjustments which, in my opinion, fall within the scope of the PLFSS for 2021. However, I sincerely believe that it is up to the communities to take over the statutes of their public servants. The "large age" premium was created in January 2020 for hospital officials. The National Council of the Public Service had been consulted on the draft decree and had voted in favour of granting the bonus to the territorial health-care workers, who were responsible for the communities. When you pay a bonus, you have to pay it; I believe that communities must take their part. On the second amendment, which deals with the wage increases resulting from the Segur of Health – here we are no longer talking about bonuses – I will have a slightly different opinion. Initial upgrades were decided in the framework of the PLFSS for 2021 and credits from the Health Mission of the PLF for 2021. The negotiations, led by Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, are still under way – he himself mentioned them on the bench. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on the first amendment and call for the second amendment to be withdrawn. And I would point out that I consider these two subjects very far from the "Relationship on Local and Regional Authorities" mission that we are dealing with this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u230	I agree with the Special Rapporteur's arguments and also give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] With regard to the former, the Government does not wish to make the "large age" premium compulsory, so that communities decide on their possible institution according to their local context. You know what it is: we are always told that we don't give enough freedom at the local level, but when we do it, communities ask that we do something else... Yes, that's how it is! And I would add that this first amendment is not useful, because the Government has decided to finance this premium from the health insurance budget, for an amount of about EUR 22 million. I therefore consider your amendment to be satisfactory and ask you to withdraw it. I also call for the withdrawal of your second amendment, because the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities", which you reduce some appropriations, is not the right vehicle to finance additional expenditure in the field of health; It's more like the purpose of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u231	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u232	I do not want to believe that you are not aware that local and regional authorities will not be able to pay the "old age" premium, even if they have the freedom to do so. Under pressure from the social partners, simply because of the recognition of the profession exercised by healthcare workers within the CASCs and in order to defend the attractiveness of these professions, they will have no choice: it will be a necessity. They will also be obliged, even if the Sécur de la santé does not make it formally mandatory, to raise the salaries of EHPAD, FAS (specialised foster homes), FAM (medicalised foster homes), and home helpers working with the elderly. I repeat, they won't be able to do anything else. And when you say that this question is a matter of health insurance, so the PLFSS, it is completely wrong! Will health insurance reimburse communities for the additional 158 euros per month and, tomorrow, the additional 300 euros per month? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It will be a net burden for communities. [[Mr. Christophe Naegelen applauds]] The State wished for this mechanism. It compensates for the hospital civil service; It would be natural for the territorial civil service to go the same way. Otherwise, you will create a distortion effect that will be serious enough for the budgets of the communities and very serious for the attractiveness of the trades concerned at the territorial level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u233	Many of you are asking for the floor, and I will give it to you. However, I would ask you to be concise in order to allow this flexible application of our Rules of Procedure. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u234	You say that the upgrading of these professions is the responsibility of the PLFSS, but when we examined the one submitted to us for the year 2021, we pointed out the problem of the competition between the medical and the medico-social and between the institutions and the home help services. In this respect, Madam Minister, you have defended an amendment for the allocation of an additional EUR 200 million for the upgrading of home help services. But we are well aware that this amount is only one-third of the 15 per cent wage-recovery promise made to them. It will be up to the departmental councils to finance the remaining two-thirds. The link with the appropriations for this mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" is therefore established. As far as autonomy is concerned, care must be taken to ensure that there are no two speeds in our country. With regard to solidarity, old age and dependency, each departmental council should have the same means to ensure the upgrading of the professions. The expectations are very high: it is a real time bomb. Announcements have been made, but, I repeat, the departmental councils will not have the means to ensure these revalorisations; They must be given by adjusting the appropriations for the mission we are looking at.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u235	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u236	Recently, we have all rightly praised the work of caregivers, but that is not enough. The group La France insoumée does not understand why staff in the territorial public sector, who work in particular in the EHPADs, could not benefit from the salary adjustment initiated by the Ségur de la santé. We were alerted by home nursing services, which would also be excluded. Can you confirm that and, if so, how can we remedy it? It is not acceptable that some health workers, who have been fully engaged during the crisis, should not have access to this upgrading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u237	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u238	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] In a period of crisis like the one we know, we have a real interest in ensuring that all those, whatever their employer, who are at the bedside of the inhabitants of our country, are at the rendezvous, and that this unity is not broken. During the Ségur de la santé, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left had regretted that certain caregivers, such as those of the SSIAD – home nursing services – or of the addictology centres, were excluded from the salary increases envisaged. And there, you are shelling local communities as all laws invite them to commit to care, whether through territorial health councils or local health contracts. It is a fact, in this area, that municipalities, intercommunalities and departments are becoming more competent. By pushing a corner into the equal treatment of those who take care of people, you speed up the principle of undressing Peter to dress Paul. Hospitals are in the process of recruiting to fill their staff gaps; If you refuse to accept the local authorities' premiums, you will only increase the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u239	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u240	Finally, I think that in times of crisis – the President of the Republic even referred to a period of war – all soldiers who take care of people must be treated equally. To do this, the least would be to compensate the communities for the money they paid. The debate therefore has its full place in the budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u241	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u242	When you perform duties in an EHPAD, whether it is private, public or managed by a mutual organization, you do the same work, you have to have the same skills and provide the same benevolence and care for the elderly. However, it must be noted that local and regional authorities which have an EHPAD under their responsibility are in an extremely uncomfortable situation: they can award the "high age" premium, but they do not necessarily have to do so, because the payment of the premium is left to their discretion. In the field, everyone often does less as he wants than he can: for some communities, the allocation of the "large age" premium weighs heavily on the EHPAD budget. [[MM. Christophe Naegelen and Pascal Brindeau applaud]] The amendment proposed by Mr Naegelen is an amendment of common sense, which is expected by a large number of communities as well as by health workers. We would really not be understood if we were not to give him a favourable follow-up when we were able to fund premiums for caregivers in the public hospital but also, if I understood correctly, in private clinics. We must respond to this request so that the EHPADs managed by the CCAS, often in rural areas, do not feel considered second zone EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u243	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u244	I would like to point out that the funding of home care services and EHPADs is tripartite; they do not fall solely within the competence of the departmental council. I would add that two years ago, we increased the care package to help create positions in EHPADs, especially night nurse positions, but that this caused a boon effect since most departmental councils took advantage of it to lower their dependency package.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u246	It is therefore necessary to consider the need to contract with the departments in order to avoid the effects of a boon when the State acts in their favour, and in favour of the caregivers. We, too, recognize the role of caregivers: we have allocated an envelope to increase the budget for home-based living aids. As far as home care nursing services are concerned, the SIADs – there is a tendency in the Chamber to mix with living aids, which does not improve the intelligibility of speeches – I would point out that their major attractiveness lies in the eyes of professionals in working conditions. The Ségur de la santé wanted to cause a shock of attractiveness to the public hospital, where working conditions are extremely degraded. We mustn't confuse everything. In any case, there will be no mass departures from the DAIS, where working conditions are still a little better than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u247	It's better to hear that than to be deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u248	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u249	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This morning's budget discussion focuses on the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", and we still have 150 amendments to consider. Now we're here to review the entire PLF and PLFSS! I don't think that's the purpose of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u251	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Colleagues, the "large age" premium paid to the departmental civil service is covered by the sickness insurance, therefore by the State, in its entirety. Yes! Another point, of course, is the decision of Segur, whether he works in EHPAD, in hospital or elsewhere. On the other hand, when we begin to say that the State must replace local and regional authorities in the exercise of their powers and responsibilities, we cross a red line. This is not the wish of the self-governing communities; It's even the opposite of what they're asking for. (Applause from the LaREM Group. – MM. Sébastien Jumel and Pascal Brindeau protest.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u252	Madam President, when things like this are said, I suppose we can intervene a second time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u253	That is not possible, we have already had the answer to the answer. I put to the vote Amendment No. 1326.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u254	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 125 Number of votes cast 125 Absolute majority 63 For adoption 29 Against 96
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u255	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1327.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u256	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 121 Number of votes cast 121 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 29 Against 92
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u257	I have before me three amendments, Nos 561, 562 and 563, which can be presented together. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u258	Unfortunately, the reduction in production taxes, a measure to be welcomed by businesses, is not the subject of dynamic compensation for local and regional authorities. The amendments are intended to provide for an additional budget to compensate for any shortfall in community profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u260	These are appeal amendments, at least I hope, because the mechanism is already designed to be evolutionary in order to ensure compensation to the nearest euro. This applies to the housing tax as well as to the compensation we have studied in sections 3 and 4 of the Finance Bill, which will be provided dynamically through tax transfer and revenue levies. I therefore ask you to withdraw them; It seems to me that this is more of an alert than a real demand for funding. I would add that in one hour we have considered ten amendments! There are still 150 on the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u261	We have time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u262	[[Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, applauded]] We called for a debate on communities next year, which we hope to get. If we don't accelerate, we'll spend the weekend there. I'm ready to stay, but I hope everyone is here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u263	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u264	I too feel that these are appeals amendments. If you want the commitment to the bank that the Government will compensate the euro for the loss of resources of the local authorities in the context of the reform of production taxes, you have it. I would point out that the measures involving loss of revenue for the affectors are compensated: for the regions, part of the VAT is replaced by the CVAE – contribution on the value added of the enterprises – and for the others, a revenue levy strictly compensates for the revenue losses resulting from the modification of the rental values of the business premises, which the Government undertakes to maintain at this level. The commitment is fulfilled and I invite you to withdraw your amendments. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u265	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 1328.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u266	It's an appeal amendment, Mr. Jerretie. Let me add, Mr Special Rapporteur, that the basic principle of parliamentary work is still to table amendments. If it is not possible to defend them in the time allotted, I recommend that the Government not include a PLFR 4 on the agenda one evening at 6 p.m. with four hours or five hours of debate for 500 amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u267	The bottom, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u268	You said earlier, Madam Minister, that the Government would take into account the evolution of the economic crisis and adapt its support to communities based on the size of revenue losses. I hear this commitment, but I repeat that the strategy of strongly supporting local investment will succeed only if the gap between the additional spending of local authorities and the compensation of their tax losses by the state is sufficiently small to preserve management savings and the self-financing capacity of communities. Otherwise, local debts would explode, which was not a desirable strategy for either the Government or the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u270	I will not be long, because we have already mentioned the subject with the previous amendments. In order not to lose revenue, it is necessary to respect the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency in order to allow the economy to leave because, when the economy returns, the revenues of the State are inflated. I recall that this year we passed a finance bill with a deficit that is almost equal to the tax revenues. It's really the economy that makes the system work. I will not mention again the compensations voted, proposed and likely to be proposed in the forthcoming PLFRs. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u272	I told you earlier, Mr.Brindeau: there will be a second round, this is not the end of the story.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u273	You're out of your mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u274	Decisions have been taken in favour of the communal block in PLFR 3 You know these safety nets. I want to tell you, in order to pre-empt any criticism, that the difference between the May announcements and the November executions is due to the fact that the revenue losses have been reassessed in a favourable way; This is good news for everyone, for local and regional authorities as well as for the state. For example, we thought that the DMTO would drop by 25%, but the reality will be around 15%. In other words, if local and regional authorities are less compensated, they are better able to resist the crisis than expected. We are aware that there is a second wave, that there will still be difficulties, and that there will therefore be a second round; We will be there, as we were present from the first wave. Today, I think I can say that, in the territories, the feeling of recognition for what the state has done dominates rather. I give you my word that the State will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u275	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u276	I thank the Minister for her answer, but what is true for DMTO is not true for other types of revenue. Respect for health protocols is indeed the best guarantee of a rapid recovery of the economy, Mr Special Rapporteur, but it has a huge cost to local and regional authorities. Those who run schools or have made equipment available to businesses and small businesses have additional expenses far higher than expected in Jean-René Cazeneuve's first report, and this is not over. It is in order to insist on this subject which deserves our debate that I support my amendment. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u277	I have before me two amendments, Nos 467 and 468, which can be presented together. Mr François Pupponi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u278	I have been alerting the majority for three years by saying that the important efforts – which I welcome every year – made in the area of city policy and assistance to local communities in the so-called disadvantaged neighbourhoods are not up to what needs to be done. In order to justify these two recurrent amendments, I would like to read two excerpts from a speech delivered a short time ago. "Let's stop treating some of our youth or citizens as consumables, or at the bottom of mere recipients of public policy. They want to do it. They want excellence. They want us to give them the chance to succeed. And so in this France Recovery plan, there must be and there will be, I will have the opportunity to present them in the coming weeks, again, profound changes to enable our neighbourhoods and our most difficult neighbourhoods to carry out the educational, cultural, entrepreneurial projects that are desired and to succeed the transition, both digital and environmental. Here too, these transitions must be carried out. Here too, we must help to succeed. » "This republican revival, it cannot be done by a few. We don't administer consciences. We govern a country, we hire citizens. And so this awakening is that of the politicians that we are, the prefects, the police, the gendarmes, the teachers, the civil servants, the elected officials, the associations, the magistrates. Of all those who, on a daily basis, have to make this promise live. They did not wait for me to make the observations I mentioned, but today we want to give them the means to do so and a clear framework and also the means to act accordingly. » This speech is the one held by the President of the Republic on 2 October at the Walls; I greeted him and shared him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u279	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u280	I will try to streamline the discussion on the VPD since many amendments concern it. So I will not take the floor every time we talk about it. I know your point of view, Mr. Pupponi. Although you are certainly right on many points, many of your remarks are already taken into account, particularly in the recovery plan. In addition, a deputy minister in charge of the city – Nadia Hai – has been appointed in this Government, which is still not annoyed; She works under the leadership of Mrs. Gourault. I will not mention all the announcements made, for example concerning free jobs, among other measures for youth employment. In addition, amendments were adopted on Tuesday, concerning the SPIE – the public service of integration and employment –, which is replete with the appropriations of the "Work and employment" mission. Much has already been done – I will not recall the volume of appropriations. Even if the appeal amendments that you support are interesting, and have the merit of keeping us alert, I ask you to withdraw them, since there are already many investment grants that, even if they are not specific to city policy, can serve this one, such as the DSIL. Indeed, in analysing the use of the endowments last year, Jean-René Cazeneuve and I realized that much of the DSIL was allocated to departments like yours, in addition to the DPV. I therefore ask you, for this year, to withdraw these amendments. Between the recovery plan, the DSIL, the DPV – whose appropriations are maintained at 150 million – and the targeting of the DSU and the DPV in recent years – and you are not responsible for it – we already have good solutions. With regard to security, many measures will be announced in the coming days and weeks. Mr Gérald Darmanin, the Minister of the Interior, and the Minister responsible for the city, I think, will be ready to discuss this with you. In any case, Mr. Pupponi, I have not forgotten your attachment to the VPD, and your willingness to keep it while amending it regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u282	Mr Pupponi, quite honestly, it is as if you were saying that the credits from the recovery plan do not go to rural areas, simply because they are not explicitly directed towards rural areas. The appropriations for the DPV have increased threefold since 2012, those allocated to the city's policy are increasing by 10%, and the recovery plan provides EUR 1 billion for the DSIL. In addition, of course, it is possible to benefit from both DPV and DSIL, or DETR and DSIL. And if the accumulation of endowments proved impossible in some departments – we found the problem with the DETR – we could remedy it with a circular. To be honest, the increases in the appropriations currently foreseen, either in or outside the recovery plan, are sufficient. I sometimes have doubts about the possibility of consuming all the additional appropriations allocated to these specific allocations. In any case, I really prefer that they benefit everyone, and I think that the measures adopted in the recovery plan for the DSIL are very good. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u283	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u284	The President of the Republic delivered a founding speech to the Walls on 2 October. My question is simple. I recently put it to the deputy minister responsible for the city, who has remained vague. I therefore rely on the members of the Government present on the bench: what financial arrangements does the Government intend to take – either in the State budget or in favour of local authorities – so that all actors can act in the direction desired by the President of the Republic? So this is a very simple question: what additional measure do you propose? Recent events show that the situation is catastrophic and the President of the Republic himself says that more needs to be done – which I welcome. When and how? The Government replied: "Don't worry, all this was before, it was something else...". But finally, reread the President's speech! Finally, the rapporteur-general, Mr Secretary of State, the DPV is not an investment allocation; it is often and mainly an operating endowment. I know what I'm talking about, I kind of invented it. Prefects also attribute it in operation, despite all your comments on the investment. VPD is increasingly funding operations because in these neighbourhoods, it is necessary to fund associations, to help social, educational policies, and so on. So the DPV has nothing to do with DSIL.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u285	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1532.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u286	On the basis of the fact that some of the small municipalities, those with less than 1000 inhabitants, will not benefit from the safety net, while they too have had to deal with exceptional purchases linked to the health crisis, David Habib, the first signatory of the amendment, proposes to create a EUR 50 million support fund. It would help them, provided, of course, that they produce evidence of actual expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u288	Mr Brindeau, this amendment gives me the opportunity to answer the questions you asked me earlier. I would simply remind you that every time we make an additional levy on state finances to help local authorities, we increase the debt of the state, while the communities have their own cash flow, and their overall debt is extremely low. I come, Mrs Pires Beaune, at your legitimate request, concerning small local and regional authorities. First, the safety net benefits all communities; the smaller ones, which are the most affected, will therefore receive compensation from the State. Then, when we discuss with the representatives of AMRF – the Association des mayores rurales de France – we find that they find it difficult to provide precise figures for small communities. Indeed, many of them, such as those without a school, have been relatively poorly affected by the covid-19. In all communities, it is probably even the smaller municipalities that have been least affected. Finally, I would like to remind you that they, like all communities, have the opportunity to spread over five years and to finance all of the covid-19-specific expenditures by borrowing from year two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u290	Pires Beaune, in addition to what the Special Rapporteur has just said, which I fully agree with, I would remind you that the minister has announced an important step before we begin to consider the amendments: the Government will table an amendment in the Senate to compensate in 2021 for the losses of DMTO that municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants who are not tourist stations will suffer that year. Indeed, the Departmental Equalization Fund will only distribute the DMTO received in 2020 next year. This complementary measure is extremely important. As the minister said earlier, we fought well to get it. I therefore ask you, like the Special Rapporteur, to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u291	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u292	I do not withdraw the amendment. If there is no problem, there will be no expenditure, since the fund will only pay for it on the basis of proof. We can therefore vote for its creation. As far as burden spreads are concerned, those familiar with public accounts know that small municipalities do not use them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u293	I have before me three amendments, Nos 669, 680 and 681, which can be presented together. Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u294	I would like to draw the State's attention to the difficulties already encountered by some municipalities and intercommunalities whose revenue comes mainly from tourism. Since their losses are sometimes extremely large, we consider that the EUR 2 million provided for in Action 5 "General allocation of decentralisation of the regions" of programme 119 "Financial assistance to local authorities and their groups" are not sufficient to accompany them. Amendment No 669 is therefore intended to abound this line by an additional EUR 8 million. Amendment No 680, which is in decline, aims to increase the additional appropriations to 6 million, and Amendment No 681 to 3 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u295	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u296	As we have already done in the Committee on Finance, we are calling for these amendments to be withdrawn. I would like to point out, for my consideration of the matter, that the exceptional aid granted this year did not exceed the amount originally allocated. In addition, while 2020 is a difficult year, the DGCL – Local Government Branch – indicates that it does not receive more applications than before. At any rate, we take note of your alert. As the Minister and the Secretary of State have said, a supplementary PLFR will probably soon be submitted to us, particularly if we find that some communities are suffering too much damage. You will excuse me for this brief answer; That's why we need to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u298	Because I have been elected local and am now in the position I hold, I can tell you that the networks of DGFIP and DGCL are extremely efficient, and that they allow the situation of municipalities to be monitored very closely, especially those in difficulty. I can assure you that there has been no increase in requests. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendments, while ensuring that we continue to follow closely the situation of the communes and intercommunalities, to act in 2021, including through exceptional subsidies to the communes experiencing serious financial difficulties, if necessary. We are ready to take over from some municipalities that would face transitional difficulties – and not just those with the most serious situation – by making, as we did in May, after the first crisis linked to the covid-19, advances of twelfths of taxation. We could do it again in January, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u299	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u300	Minister, since these amendments were mostly appeals, I withdraw them. But I can assure you that by 2021, new requests will come to you, notably from EPCI, because some will face real difficulties. However, I have no doubt that you will be able to provide answers through a PLFR, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u301	I asked for the floor on these amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u302	It is impossible to speak on withdrawn amendments, Mr Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u303	But you could have given me the floor before they were taken out!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u304	I don't have a crystal ball, Mr. Jumel. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1533.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u305	It aims to provide additional funding for Action 01 "Exceptional aid to local and regional authorities", under the programme 122 "Specific assistance and administration", in particular to take account of climate events and the disaster in the Vesubia valley. This is an opportunity, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, to ask you to take stock of the consumption of the appropriations for this action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u307	I'll let the members of the Government take stock of what you're asking for. We have already had a very long debate on this subject during the review of the mission "Ecology, sustainable development and sustainable mobility", particularly with regard to the Alpes-Maritimes, with Éric Woerth and Éric Ciotti. I am inclined to ask you to withdraw, or, failing that, to give an unfavorable opinion. The appropriations for the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" – which it is better to aim at in this area – have already been abounded with €50 million to deal with these difficulties, and €160 million for the fight against disasters and the prevention of risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u309	In addition to the reply given at the moment by the Special Rapporteur, I would point out that, immediately after the disaster in the Vésubie valley, Jacqueline Gourault and I signed a letter, then signed by Barbara Pompili, entrusting the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and the IGA – the General Inspectorate of the Administration – with a joint mission to assess the damage. This mission has not yet reached its conclusions, in particular as regards the financial volume required. Abundance of the EUR 50 million fund today would therefore seem premature. In order to know the sector well, I fear that this amount will be very insufficient. In any case, you can be sure that for this territory, the Government will do the same dynamic, and will show the same will of solidarity as in 2018, when we faced the disaster in Aude, using all available funds – they should, I repeat, go far beyond the envelope you are advocating. In view of this strong commitment of the Government, I ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u310	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u311	I'll take it off. However, I have not received a reply on the consumption of credits. Thank you for sending it to me shortly, knowing that you have mentioned other climate events; It seems that Martinique is suffering serious from it at this very moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u312	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 1390.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u313	The aim of this amendment is to increase by EUR 10 million the financing of the homelessness activity of homeless people by the communal or intercommunal centres for social action – CCIS and CIAS. In fact, homeless people often need to use a postal home service, in particular to be able to receive their mail and to carry out the many steps necessary for their reintegration. It is a necessary tool for their access to the law. If they can justify a link with a municipality, they have full right of access to a free residence with the CCIS of the municipality or an approved body. These additional resources could be used for capital expenditure necessary to increase the capacity of housing services – rehabilitation of suitable premises or purchase of dedicated equipment; They could also fund the recruitment of dedicated staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u315	Mrs Pires Beaune, I will give you the figures you have just asked for, because we have them. As far as this amendment is concerned, we are not in favour of increasing the appropriations for this action. Historical decentralization has entrusted the departments and municipalities with the management of social and medico-social policies, which includes the residence of homeless persons. To the communities, therefore, to make the necessary arbitrations to ensure the financing, and the CASCs and IASCs have generally increased the means devoted to this home in recent years. If the needs were to increase significantly, we would be informed, as we asked the communities to pass on all the increases in co-vid expenditures to us. If necessary, I will keep you informed. Personally, it was a request for withdrawal or an unfavourable opinion on this amendment that was not considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u317	You finance your proposal by taking appropriations from programme 122, whose action 01 finances in particular State support for communities affected by natural disasters and exceptional aid to municipalities in serious financial difficulties, which the two previous amendments wanted to abound. Reducing these appropriations, which are most often consumed in full, is of course a problem, not to mention the legal allocations due to the overseas communities, which the Government is obliged to pay and on which we do not have much room for manoeuvre. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u318	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 1420.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u319	This amendment by our colleague Valérie Petit aims to extend the benefit of the VATCF to the costs of maintaining the green spaces belonging to the public space, in the same way as public buildings and roads. This seems wise knowing that the vegetation of public spaces helps to combat global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u321	The TVCF is an investment support grant. Next year, it will reach a record level of about 6.5 billion euros, compared to 6 billion euros this year, which was already very high. TVCF is therefore not intended to finance operating expenses with a few exceptions, such as road and network maintenance, to which we have added this summer the "cloud" expenditure. It is not desirable to extend these exceptions without which we would end up covering the entire operating expenditure of local and regional authorities. However, I would like to recall that the FCTV is finally going to be automated, what many expected and what many of you have demanded. This will simplify and streamline its management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u323	The TVCF is intended to support community capital expenditures. I understand that there is an attempt to think about it when it comes to choosing between long-term rental or net acquisition of equipment, but it is not intended to cover 100% of local government spending. Its principle is clear: it is a flat-rate refund of VAT paid on investment. In any event, what you are proposing is operating expenses. On the other hand, your proposal is absolutely unquantified and we know nothing of its impact on the state's finances. I ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u324	Mrs Lemoine, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u325	I maintain it because I am not the first signatory, but I understand the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u326	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u327	The purpose of Article 57 is the automation of the VATCF, carried over from year to year for three years. However, I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 10, which provides for a number of derogations from this automaticity. The problem is that there are many others that are not included, including community work on the property of others, delegations and concessions. Lac du Der, for example, is owned by a public territorial basin institution – EPTB – which brings together the departments of Île-de-France and has delegated tourism development to a trade union. According to ministerial instructions, work on this property – for example, the construction of a port – was eligible for the VATCF. However, according to our two special rapporteurs, they are not covered by paragraph 10. Could you confirm that the eligibility criteria set out in the circulars of the Ministry of the Interior will continue to apply?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u328	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u329	We must also look in the mirror at what we have adopted in Article 23, which summarizes all the revenue levies – SRP: the VATF is increased by 546 million euros and increases from 6 to 6.546 billion euros in 2021, which is substantial. The question of the scope covered by the VATCF and of what constitutes operating expenses or capital expenditure may arise, but above all, it must be remembered that it has unprecedented means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u330	I have before me a series of identical amendments, Nos 442, 455, 464, 650, 735, 973, 1009, 1176 and 1180. Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 442 is being defended. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 455.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u331	This amendment calls for a report by the beginning of next year allowing departments to estimate the decrease in the proceeds of the CVAE contribution related to the covid crisis. This report will enable them to anticipate the reactivation of the guarantee mechanism which is covered by horizontal equalisation and to define the necessary envelope with a view to incorporating an ad hoc provision into the draft amending finance law for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u332	Mr Vincent Rolland's Amendment No 464 is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 650.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u333	The second wave, which creates a wave to the soul, to take up the remarks of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, will worsen the impact of the crisis on the finances of local authorities, particularly those of the departments. However, the guarantee mechanism will not be able to operate on a constant basis, and it is therefore urgent that, from the first few months of the year, the losses of CVAE can be anticipated in order to be able to compensate them very quickly, especially when they are very large.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u334	Amendments Nos 735 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, 973 by Mr Paul Christophe and 1009 by Mrs Nathalie Porte are defended. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 1176.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u335	The problem is that we always reason on averages, which mask the diversity of cases. Hence this appeal amendment to question the Government on the loss of revenue for the departments in 2021. The year 2020 does not pose a problem since the calculations are made with a year of lag from 2019. It will be different from 2021. The requested report will provide further information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u336	Amendment No 1180 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u337	The resources that will be available to departments next year are a real question. PLFR 4 already provides answers, as does the Minister's commitment to remain vigilant on this point. That being said, I do not understand your request for a report on the decline in the ACV and its impact on equalization. In fact, we already know the amount of the ACV's revenue for next year, since the second payment is taking place at the moment. We do not need a report on this point. Secondly, the variations in ACVE only marginally affect the equalisation mechanism, of which the EUR 50 million are mainly intended to compensate for differences in growth between departments. Only a small part of the fund is intended to compensate for VAEC differences, beyond a 5% decrease in revenue. This is usually quite an exceptional situation, but it turns out that this will affect a large majority of departments this year. It is therefore clear that this mechanism cannot be used in these circumstances, and that is why we have already voted in the PLF to neutralize it – the amount "neutralised" will nevertheless be equalised between the departments. It is envisaged that this mechanism will be re-introduced into the PLF by 2022, but it is clear that at this stage the request for a report no longer has any purpose. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u339	I have heard your argument, but I will take up the statement made by the Special Rapporteur. These identical amendments are, in my opinion, largely satisfied, since the consequences of the decline in VAT in the departments are known. It has thus been estimated that a 11.4 % decrease in the CVAE between 2020 and 2021 would imply a theoretical guarantee of EUR 294 million, out of any proportion with an equalisation fund of approximately EUR 60 million. The Government has taken full advantage of this by suspending the limited reduction guarantee next year and by providing a more focused response to the situation of the departments. It has obviously preferred to adopt targeted measures for the latter, which take into account their resources and expenses, a plethora of the national equalization fund for the DMTO, with a reactivation of the stabilization fund and DMTO advances. It has therefore already provided for the necessary arrangements to ensure the sustainability of the financial situation of the departments in 2021. A report on the national equalisation fund of the ACVEN in 2021 does not seem necessary, especially since the very comprehensive report on the presentation of the PLF, drawn up by the general rapporteur for the budget, gives all the information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u340	I have before me four amendments, Nos 1385, 478, 479 and 480, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1385.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u341	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It's been a long time since you gave me the floor, Madam President. It's okay, you have the right to have a little humor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u342	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Still have to be funny.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u343	All this is relative, Madam President. Containment and crisis are not the same for everyone. I understand that you consider that people at the RSA choose it, are lazy and take refuge in inactivity traps. In my beautiful department of the Seine-Maritime, the number of beneficiaries of the RSA will increase by 10%, with a new population of students over twenty-five years of age entering the labour market who do not find jobs and traders hit hard by your inappropriate measures. In a word, poverty is growing. It is therefore necessary, in order to compensate for the effects of this situation, to increase the progress of the DSU and the DSR, in order to strengthen vertical equalisation and to limit the unequal effects of the crisis, which is not felt, I imagine in any case, in the same way in Neuilly-sur-Seine as in my home, in Neufchâtel-en-Bray, in Tréport and in Forges-les-Eaux. The sun does not shine in the same way for everyone: some have become richer in the wake of the crisis when others have become considerably impoverished, and the communes obviously do not escape this rule. As I did not have the floor earlier, I would add that, in departments as beautiful as mine, the Seine-Maritime, in Normandy, the impact is twofold: the loss of revenues – those of casinos, it made you laugh, but they are ringing and stumbling for the communes, those of municipal campsites, ringing and stumbling, those of the residence tax, ringing and stumbling – is combined with the explosion of social demands, since the number of precarious workers and victims of the crisis continues to grow, at the same time as the social emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u344	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u345	This amendment seeks to correct territorial inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u346	Amendments Nos 478, 479 and 480 by François Pupponi are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u347	You are asking the question, which concerns us all, of the rate at which DSU and DSR should be increased. Since 2017, our majority has chosen to continue to increase these allocations to increase the equalization and solidarity of the richest territories with the poorest. Do we have to go even faster and have we not touched a limit? I think so, because more than 42% of the municipal budget comes from equalization: this level is very high. In Sarcelles, a city that some of our colleagues know well, the DGF is 730 euros per inhabitant, while the national average is 160 euros per inhabitant. The solidarity effort is extremely important. Contrary to what you imply, there is no correspondence between the impact of covid -19 on a particular territorial community and the distribution criteria of the DSU and the DSR. It is not by increasing the DSU and the DSR that we will solve the problems of certain local and regional authorities; We would even run the risk of fooling ourselves and not assigning public money to the right place. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u349	[[Rires by Mr Sébastien Jumel]] Mr Jumel, I agree with the statement just made by the Special Rapporteur, 100 per cent, even 200 per cent. I also have the right to be humorous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u350	But only if it's funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u351	We both have, I think. Equalization has been considerably strengthened since 2014: between the DSU, the DSR, the DNP – national allocation of equalisation – and the DACOM, it amounts, in stock, to EUR 4.9 billion for the municipalities out of an amount of DGF of EUR 11.9 billion; DSU and DSR will grow by €90 million by 2020. Equalization is financed by the internal redeployment of the DGF through the system of capping the lump sum allocation of the municipalities and the allocation of compensation of the EPCIs. The effort required of some 20,000 municipalities and 1200 EPCIs to finance the increase in these allocations is significant. I do not think you are going to withdraw your amendment, so I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u352	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u353	I confirm that it is maintained because the Special Rapporteur alerts us to the principle of the free administration of local authorities, to which I am very sensitive, and their financial autonomy. It would have been appropriate to think about this when you removed production taxes, which has considerably weakened the financial autonomy of communities. On the other hand, some elements of equalization have been considerably weakened. In the Seine-Maritime, there was a departmental equalization fund for the occupational tax, which transferred allocations from rich municipalities to poor municipalities facing exorbitant social expenditure: the reform of the occupational tax and successive reforms on taxes based on economic contributions melted this fund as snow in the sun. Similarly, the intercommunal equalization fund – FIP – also depends on the room for manoeuvre available to the intercommunalities to ensure equalization on the scale of a homogeneous territory like that of an intercommunality. These funds also melt as snow in the sun with the disruption of EPCI's finances through the crisis and the government's fiscal reforms. I confirm that the sun does not shine the same for everyone, that the crisis does not strike all territories in the same way, and that it is important for the state to take care everywhere and protect everywhere. That is the unity of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u354	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u355	I don't want to talk about the sun, because it's apparently more beautiful in the Seine-Maritime than in Corrèze, which is to be checked. I have just read the amendment: the DSU is a structural and sustainable tool, which evolves every year, as you speak of a cyclical context of crisis. It is not possible to include a cyclical dimension in this major and structural tool. At the level of horizontal equalization, I said in my keynote address that we must work on the various equalization funds, such as the ICCF, because those are the ones that work. Your reflection must be on communal, intercommunal and departmental equalization, because it will answer the problem you raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u356	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1485.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u357	It has been co-signed by some 30 colleagues, who like me are interested in prison conditions, who are concerned about overcrowding in prisons and who want conditions of detention to be dignified in our country. The amendment aims to speed up the deployment of the prison plan by activating an incentive lever for local and regional authorities. Many local elected officials regret that insufficient people are being held in prison, while others deplore the unworthy conditions of detention. The amendment reminds local and regional authorities of their responsibilities and proposes to activate the lever of the DGF. I had tabled another amendment along the same lines, but he was unfortunately struck by inadmissibility. It was intended to implement the Act of 13 December 2000 on urban solidarity and renewal, known as SRU, which seems to me to be more visible. I very much regret that the sitting rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u358	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u359	I understand your motivation. The prison population is included in the calculation of the DGF, with municipalities receiving an increase in the allocation when they host a prison centre. The DGF should not be diverted from its purpose. This endowment is used to pay operating costs of a community, not to support public policies. By adopting your amendment, we would put our finger in a gear that would overtake us. The purpose of your amendment is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, because we cannot agree to create incentives for local and regional authorities to set up penitentiary centres. For local authorities, a prison centre is a boon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u360	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u361	... because it creates jobs, stimulates consumption and generates property tax. It's a real resource. It is not appropriate to add any more: I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u363	I will make the same reply as the Special Rapporteur. The prison population is included in the population census for the calculation of the DGF, such as the interns of high schools and apprenticeship centres. We are not going to change the rules of the DGF. With the establishment of a prison, prison staff set up, which seems to me attractive enough, even if I understand your concern. Last year, an amendment, which did not come from a member of the Law Committee and which I found curious, wanted to increase the mobility payment according to the number of prisoners,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u364	For their shopping in town?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u365	... when it seemed to me that incarcerated persons were by definition not very mobile. I fully understand the spirit of your amendment, but we are not going to transform the DGF into an incentive for reception policies. If we did, we would be asked to use the endowment to increase, for example, the number of tourist buildings in a municipality. That is not a motivation in itself, so I also ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u366	I call Mr Robin Reda to support Amendment No. 1262.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u367	It is a pity that Mrs Abadie has withdrawn her amendment, but I will not be overt to tell you what the Group of the European People's Party is doing. The Republicans believe that the goal of building prison places is not achieved. Amendment No 1262 is intended to recalculate the increase taken into account for the distribution of the DGF of tourist communes. Tourism activity increases their tax potential somewhat artificially, while their costs are significant, especially when everything goes well, in high season periods when attendance is high. The amendment concerns the improvement mechanism of the DGF of the tourist communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u369	We have this debate every year: it is usually Mrs Bonnivard who defends this type of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u370	I took it short!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u371	I'm glad she's raising her hand. An effort has already been made in 2009 by increasing the DGF population of tourist municipalities by 0.5%, under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u372	It was a good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u373	It was a very good amendment by Mr Joël Giraud. You say that the tourist communes have more burdens: certainly, but the reports also say, one after another, that tourism is a chance for the territories. This is why they develop tourist activities. Tourists are above all a resource and the balance sheet is always very positive. In the context of a zero-sum game – since the DGF is asleep – I do not believe that the financial criterion should also be blown up. I do not want to oppose the territories to each other, but by schematizing, rich tourist communes would perceive more DGF, to the detriment of poorer communes. I don't think it's going in the right direction. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u375	Unfavorable opinion, too. The DGF largely takes into account the burdens of the tourist communes. The FMD level of these is 11% higher than the national average. In addition, measures concerning small rural tourist communes have been adopted in recent PLFs; 1201 municipalities have benefited this year, for an amount of 8 million. Differences should not be accentuated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u376	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u377	I hear your remarks, but those of the Special Rapporteur illustrate a prejudice still present in all heads: the tourist communes would be rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u378	They're rich in tourism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u379	No! This prejudice leads us to miscarriage reality and to consider that certain territories should systematically contribute to the national effort, and never benefit, as they contribute to national wealth, to the revenues of the State and to national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u380	That is not what the rapporteur said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u381	These territories would sometimes like to have something in return. Some time ago, a very good amendment by Mr Joël Giraud made it possible to improve the DGF for small and medium-sized municipalities, but today I expect – I do not hope so – a catastrophic winter season. Already, the actors of the BTP and, more broadly, the economic actors of the tourist territories warn us: they are facing difficulties in the coming years, because the investments cannot be made because of the crisis. The tourism sector is not the only sector concerned; A number of related sectors, including the BTP sector, are also involved. In addition to a non-subsidization of the reformed DGF, the tourist municipalities continue to make a large and massive contribution to the FPIC. In five years, this contribution has increased from EUR 100 million to EUR 1 billion; certain tourist communes can no longer invest. If we want to shoot down all the territories, either, but at some point we have to give the means to the locomotives to continue; If they continue to be strangled, they will no longer be a source of employment, activity and attractiveness for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u382	Excellent! She spoke much better than I did!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u383	Better than Neuilly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u384	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u385	I have always considered mono-activity, including tourism, to be fragile. What makes a territory rich is the diversity of its activity – industrial, tourist, etc. I am elected from a territory with a beautiful seaside resort, Dieppe: I invite you to come and discover it when you have the right to go out. We have long been told, like economist Laurent Davezies, that tourism is non-relocable, stable and sustainable jobs. Except that tourism has been hit hard by the crisis, which I fear will be sustainable and followed by others. In my territory, the trans-manche activity is rolled, the pleasure is rolled; the fishery is rolled, due to both Brexit and the closure of restaurants; the residence tax is rolled; casino activity is rolled; that of campsites, whether municipal or non-municipal, is rolled; the hotels, especially those that make the beauty of Dieppe's seafront, are rolled. So there's something to think about. I know that the DGF takes into account the label of tourist resorts: with this label, seaside and tourist resorts benefit from a doped DGF, when the intercommunality has done the necessary – secondary residences also play a certain role. But in times of crisis like the one we are going through, spending remains the same, social spending explodes even when the territory is also industrial, while revenues melt like snow in the sun, even when it is beautiful. That is why I will vote in favour of this amendment: account must be taken of the specific nature of the real economy of tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u386	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u387	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u388	This amendment is a bad solution to a real problem. I will not vote in favour of him, because it is not for the DGF to play the role you intend to give him. If the safety net had integrated the loss of tariff revenues, as many of us have requested, this would have allowed us to take into account the problem of tourist municipalities and other municipalities which may be in the same situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u389	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u390	The safety net takes into account taxes on ski lifts and gambling taxes, as well as the occupation of the public domain; These are all measures relating to tourism. Once again, as the Special Rapporteur, Christophe Jerretie, has said, let us not respond to a cyclical problem by means of a structural measure. Mrs Bonnivard, I did not say that all the tourist communes were rich, but on average they are richer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u391	You didn't say "on average"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u392	They are richer because they have a higher FMD, because they have higher tax resources on average, and because they are contributors to the FPIC – as you said yourself – which means they are richer than the average.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u393	It's a syllogism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u394	The rapporteur is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u395	Stop! You don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u396	Don't be unpleasant, Mrs. Bonnivard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u397	At the request of the Liberties and Territories Group, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u398	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u399	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1536.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u400	This is a very simple amendment, but it can be very useful. It aims to smooth the exit of the ACVEN equalization fund for the departments concerned. It thus provides a solution to the four to five departments at the limit of the eligibility of the fund; per capita incomes are very low and they face great financial and budgetary difficulties when exit is impossible to anticipate. Notifications are very late, when they do not take place after the budget of the departments has been voted. This scheme is identical to that already in place for the DMTO equalisation fund. The amendment is neutral for state finances, since the smoothing would be financed from the fund's resources and would mobilise only 3% to 5%, with a very small impact on the overall amount. I did a simulation of the years 2015 to 2018. Five departments were reportedly involved: the Territory of Belfort, the Côtes-d'Armor, the Charente-Maritime, the Ardèche and the Hautes-Alpes. They all have incomes per capita below the median income and would certainly have liked not to go too abruptly out of the fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u402	We have already talked about this equalization fund. This is a small sum: 50 million. In view of the 1.6 billion DMTO equalization between departments, we must instead devote our efforts to this type of tool. The amendment would create a lot of complexity and development when it concerns only one department. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u403	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u404	The Special Rapporteur is right: in 2020, only the department of Ardèche lost a return of 700000 euros, while at the same time earning 700000 euros of CVAE. The volume of CVAEs – a total of 60 million – is quite limited; It should therefore be targeted towards the most fragile departments. If some of the money allocated is diverted to departments that are no longer eligible, all this makes no sense. I understand the situation in the Ardèche, of which you have chaired the departmental council for a few years, but I cannot give a favourable follow-up to a mono-departmental amendment. In addition, the Ardèche objectively won a considerable amount of ACVAE this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u405	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u406	The amendment is not mono-departmental: each year, several departments, which are at the crossroads of eligibility, are involved. This places them in difficulty to build their budget. I am surprised that an amendment is refused on the grounds that it concerns few departments and small sums, whereas when an amendment targets many departments and incurs large sums, the expenditure is not acceptable. In my opinion, you could have accepted this effort, which did not involve you too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u407	With a little discipline, we should be able to finish the rule 58 review before we adjourn the morning session. I have before me nine amendments, Nos 246, 434, 1022, 1465, 1544, 1579, 1535, 492, and 493, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1579 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 3579. Amendments Nos 246, 434, 1022, 1465 and 1544 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 492 and 493. Amendment No 246 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 434.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u408	It is intended to draw the consequences of the adoption of section 3 of the first part of the Finance Bill. Indeed, the abolition of the regional share of the company's value added contribution – CVAE – paid by companies will be offset by the payment of a fraction of VAT. In accordance with the outcome of the negotiations with the regions, it is appropriate to abolish the Equalization Fund, which will be obsolete as from 1 January 2021, and to include in the law that all the regions will be involved in the ensuing negotiations to replace it in the PLF by 2022, as well as the provision of compensation through the payment of a share of VAT. This is a reasoned request from the regions; It is important to include in the law the commitments made orally with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u409	Mr Robin Reda has the floor to support Amendment No. 1022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u410	I'll just add one more point. As mentioned in the opening remarks, there is serious concern about the financial autonomy of local and regional authorities, particularly in the area of taxation. Communities, including regions, want to ensure that the Government will abide by the agreements. Indeed, it is evident from the budget reviews that this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u411	Amendment No 1465 by Mr Christophe Naegelen is being defended. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1544.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u412	The resources of the Regional Equalization Fund are not currently very high, as they are less than 1% of the actual operating revenues of these communities. We need to do better. An agreement was reached with Régions de France: the least thing is that it finds its translation in the PLF for 2021. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u413	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1579.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u414	It concerns one of the points of the agreement, which we all welcome, which has been achieved by the regions and the Government. Of course, this agreement does not detract from Parliament's free will, but it seems important that we all know the terms. I took them up in the summary statement of my amendment, which I quote: "Accordingly, for the year 2021, the current rules of the equalisation system remain unchanged and the distribution of the part of VAT collected by the regions in substitution for the ACVE will be based on the net amounts collected in 2020, following the application of the levies and payments made under the equalization fund for the resources of the regions. My amendment is the literal translation of the agreement, unlike the previous ones, which tend to freeze the fund. As Mrs Pires Beaune rightly said, the amount of the equalization fund between the regions is now only 0.6 or 0.7 per cent of their actual operating revenue, which is very low. On the other hand, that of the departments could serve as a model: with 1.6 billion, it accounts for 2.6 per cent of their actual operating revenues. We need to get the regions to think about equalization, which is what this amendment is about. This is obviously not our role; It is the work of the regions to define the methods of equalisation, according to the criteria they have chosen, particularly with regard to wealth. Our job will be to translate the result into law next year. However, it is important to give a horizon, as it is not always easy for local and regional authorities to organise equalisation horizontally. I also propose, in the spirit of the "Method Agreement" signed in July, that the fund's resources should reach at least 1% of revenue by 2022. The regions will therefore have one year to develop this fund. Finally, the loss of revenue associated with the disappearance of the ACVE will be fully offset next year, with an effort of approximately €1.2 billion from the State funds. Metropolitan areas will benefit more than overseas regions, as their share of EACV is much higher. The amendment therefore gives a small boost in favour of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u415	I call Mr Remy Rebeyrotte to support sub-amendment No. 3579.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u416	[[Smile]] The aim is to open up the prospects of the programme described by Mr Cazeneuve, stating that in 2023 the amount resulting from the equalisation scheme will reach 1.35% of the actual operating revenue. In a way, we are playing the role of Mr Bahlsen – Mr Plus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u417	I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1535.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u418	It is similar to an amendment I tabled last year, to which the Government replied that it was leaving for a year to study the issue. As the year has passed, and this review requires only a few minutes of attention, the opinion should be favourable. The aim is to correct the effects of edges associated with the transfer of the AECV. The reasoning is that the "rich" departments – the term is not necessarily appropriate – have transferred amounts corresponding to a large part of their resources, which greatly diminishes their tax potential. Conversely, "poor" departments – without the qualifier being more appropriate – have transferred ACV amounts corresponding to a smaller share of their resources: the impoverishment of their fiscal potential has been relatively smaller. I insist on the adverb "relatively". In addition, "rich" departments that have transferred a large volume of CVAE to the regions often receive a retrocession compensation allocation, which is not accounted for in their fiscal potential. That is, the rich departments have seen their fiscal potential reduced by an amount which they have not, for part, ever lost, thanks to retrocession; As for the "poor" departments, they had to supplement an insufficient transfer of CVAE with compensation allocations. They are also not included in the calculation of the loss of tax potential. This system is therefore very unfair: rich departments earn for no reason, while the poor lose unfairly. The amendment seeks to remedy this by means of a technical correction, along the lines of what already exists for the calculation of the fiscal potential of the municipal block.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u419	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 492.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u420	Like Mr. Saulignac's, he comes back every year. However, this year it has a particular dimension. It is intended to exempt the Corsican community from the levy made under the regional resources equalization fund, which was introduced following the reform of the trade tax. For each region, the percentage of growth between 2011 and year n-1 of the total resources derived from the CVAE, the flat-rate taxation of network companies – IFER –, the allocation of compensation for the reform of the business tax and the national individual guarantee fund of resources are calculated. When the percentage of growth exceeds the average, a craving de facto returns the region in question to the average. The product thus collected is used for regions in the opposite configuration. The deviations found in 2011, which was the reference year, are frozen, thus depriving the territories benefiting from economic growth of the entire tax bonus induced. This is why the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities exempted the overseas regions from this levy. It is not understandable that Corsica did not benefit from the same exemption, given its tax resource index, which is by far the lowest in metropolitan France. The amount of the levy for this regional resources equalisation fund in Corsica was EUR 0.8 million in 2016 and EUR 1.4 million in 2017, with a view to abounding with regions almost always better equipped than it was. In a context of a health and economic crisis which has led to a significant decrease in tourist traffic on the island, it seems unfair and penalising that Corsica continues to contribute to this fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u421	Amendment No 493 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these amendments under joint discussion and on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u422	With regard to the first set of identical amendments relating to the regional equalisation fund, I ask for their withdrawal, in favour of the one I am defending, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable. I do not prefer my amendment because it is mine, but because it better respects the letter of the agreement between the regions and the State. The agreement does not provide for the amounts to be fixed in 2021. On the other hand, the mechanism is frozen for next year: during this period, the regions will be free to draw up their own arrangements. As for Mr Rebeyrotte's sub-amendment, it was not discussed in committee. Personally, I will give wisdom. The goal is to reach 1% of revenue by 2022, which I think is the minimum; the purpose of the sub-amendment is to increase it to 1.35% by 2023. The method can be found to be somewhat aggressive, since it is the maximum envisaged: the fund corresponds to 0.65% of revenues, adding 1.35%, it would reach 2%. We can also give ourselves a year to redefine the target. As far as Corsica is concerned, Mr Acquaviva, I understand your argument. My answer will not satisfy you: the current mechanism will only last for a year, which does not give us time to change the rules. The regions will have to incorporate the specificities of Corsica into their reflections, so that the new equalisation takes into account the elements you mentioned. Mr Saulignac's amendment is quite technical, and I propose that the effects of it be studied more precisely. It does not concern the equalization of regions. It is therefore included by accident in this joint discussion; But let's look at it. These are the consequences of the transfer to the regions, included in the PLF for 2016, of part of the CVAE perceived by the departments, fully compensated for them. Your proposals seem judicious, they deserve a working group to study the subject. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u423	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u424	Everyone welcomed the prospect of the development of the regional equalization fund: it already existed, but, as everyone had pointed out, its scope was rather small in comparison with that of the departments, which had made a significant effort in that regard. I participated in all these negotiations; the regions themselves have proposed the enhanced equalization fund referred to in the agreement. The Government is in favour of amendment No. 1579 by the Special Rapporteur, and thus against the others. Mr Cazeneuve's amendment respects the terms of the signed agreement; Furthermore, the other amendments do not tend to strengthen the equalization mechanism. During the examination of the first part of the PLF, you decided to compensate for the abolition of the regional share of the ACVAE by a fraction of VAT, integrating the levies and payments made in 2020 under the Regional Equalization Fund. The latter will not be obsolete by 2021: it must increase by about 38 million. This is consistent with the objective of regulating the dynamics of the regional CVAE. The amendment defended by Jean-René Cazeneuve aims, by 2021, to limit the allocation of the equalization fund to the only amount corresponding to this increase. It also intends to provide for the creation of a new fund from 2022 onwards. It is therefore perfectly in line with the agreement reached with the regions. For the same reason, I ask you, Mr Rebeyrotte, to withdraw your sub-amendment, although I fully understand the spirit behind it and share your ambition. The substance is not at issue, but, once again, for participating in all the negotiations, I can testify to the fact that we agreed that we still had a year to agree on the funding arrangements for the fund. It is therefore a matter of respecting a formal rather than a substantive commitment. Work on the trajectory of the Equalization Fund must be undertaken very quickly with the regions. As far as the ardéchois amendment is concerned...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u425	Not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u426	Excuse me, I jumped a step. I hear your request, Mr Saulignac, but I am unable to respond technically to your proposal, which you yourself have said is very complex. I propose that you include it in the work we will be conducting in 2021 with the CFL – the local finance committee – on the reform of financial indicators and with the regions of France on the reform of equalization. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Finally, as regards Amendment No 492, although you often refer, Mr Acquaviva, to the exemption from the levy on the equalisation fund for the overseas regions, it is well known that Corsica, even if it is an island, is not an ultramarine territory. The fact of exempting Corsica from the levy would obviously lead to a postponement on the other regions. The State-Region Partnership Agreement of 28 September, following the July "Method Agreement", provides that the rules for horizontal equalisation between regions remain stable in 2021. At this stage, I can only assure you that we will be dealing with the specific case of Corsica in the context of the equalization reform planned for 2022. Again, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u427	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u428	Two things, Madam Minister: First, Ressources Consultants Finance has produced absolutely remarkable work on the consequences of transferring a share of AECV to the regions. Everything is said in a few figures to attest to the fact that the current situation is marked by the seal of injustice: while the Hauts-de-Seine earns 12 million euros and the Yvelines benefit from the measure to the tune of 2.3 million euros, Pas-de-Calais, Côtes-d'Armor and Gard respectively lose 4.5 million, 2.5 million and 2.3 million euros. Second, we are faced with an unintended effect of the transfer of AECV, which everyone agrees was intended to compensate for a transfer of skills and should be community neutral. It must be noted that this is not the case. It is abnormal that this theoretically neutral transfer has such an important effect on the main indicator of departmental wealth. Every year you explain to me very kindly that the problem will be dealt with in a working group or committee, but now you have been providing the same answer for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u429	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u430	I'd like to continue to trust you, but understand that this trust is getting out of hand! Perhaps I would be reassured if you committed yourself in writing. I invite you to do so, because I believe that this situation is really unfair and that we could have corrected it for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u431	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u432	Thank you for your detailed answer, Minister. I regret that no decision is taken this year to revise the regional equalization fund for Corsica: there is an anomaly that a poor region, which collects the weakest tax resources from metropolitan areas, must contribute to regions far richer than it, it is part of the metropolitan whole. I would point out in this connection that, although it is not legally comparable to the overseas territories, Corsica has a special status...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u433	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u434	... under article 72 of the Constitution. It was precisely because of this specificity that you decided to make it benefit from the safety net adopted in July under PLFR 3: with the ultramarine territories, this is the only region that receives specific taxes linked to the activity. When there is a will, there is a path – in this case, a path fully compatible with the current state of law: it is a question of perception of realities. I therefore regret that in 2021 a poor region continues to contribute to rich regions. This seems all the more contradictory to me in the context of the health crisis linked to covid-19. I do, however, like my friend Saulignac, the bet of intelligence and debate, hoping that the work will be completed in 2022 to remedy what constitutes an anomaly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u435	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u436	Since we are probably about to adopt Amendment No 1579 by Jean-René Cazeneuve, I would like to refer to another amendment by the special rapporteur which is absolutely decisive in the field of CVAE: this is the amendment aimed at renewing the guarantee of the resources of the communal bloc in 2021. This guarantee, which we adopted in the third act of amending finance, has borne fruit. On Tuesday, we found, by looking at PLFR 4, that a substantial savings would be achieved in 2020, since the cost would probably amount to EUR 300 million or 400 million, whereas EUR 1 billion of appropriations were initially planned. On the other hand, the scheme will be essential in 2021, as the CVAE – which is not a stock tax on rental values, as is property tax, but a flow tax – is completely correlated with the development of GDP, which is expected to fall by 11%. Unfortunately, in a very surprising way, the amendment to renew the guarantee of resources in 2021, tabled by Jean-René Cazeneuve, was not adopted, even though this is the main proposal contained in the excellent report which he submitted to the Government on 29 July last on the impact of the crisis of the Covid-19 on local finances. We absolutely must take this step, otherwise some local authorities will be affected by the decline in ACVAE. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Before the meeting is adjourned, I ask the Ministry responsible for the protection of local authorities and especially local finance to commit itself to attach the utmost importance to the amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve, which I fully endorse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u437	Mr Rebeyrotte, do you maintain your sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u438	He's out. Madam Minister, I wanted to emphasize our willingness to commit to the rise of equalization between regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u439	Mr David Lorion has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u440	It aims to include EPCIs with own taxation, not just municipalities, in the first paragraph of Article 58 of the text. The wording of this paragraph does not explicitly specify that the measure applies to the EPCIs with own taxation, it is a matter of providing this clarification, in order to avoid an overly restrictive interpretation of the arrangements for allocating the overall operating allocation, in particular to Mayotte – since this amendment was drafted by my colleague Mansour Kamardine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u441	I fully support this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u443	Your request is met: it goes without saying that the EPCIs are concerned. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u444	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u445	As the Mayotte populations are already included in the adjustment scheme, the demand is met.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u446	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-12-O1073.u447	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further examination of the appropriations of the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities"; Review of non-attached items. The meeting is adjourned.
