ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u2	We are discussing the review of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" and the special allocation account "Agricultural and Rural Development" (No. 3399, Annexes 4 and 5; No. 3400, Volume III). Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u3	Mr.Minister of Agriculture and Food, at the end of the summer, presenting your ministry's budget for 2021, you said, "It's more, more. Indeed, there is much more in this PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u4	Mr. Plus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u5	We're looking forward to it, and I'll start with it. There are also questions; I will put forward some of them, and we will see others when we look at the amendments. Finally, there is a little less, particularly with regard to CASDAR, the special trust account "Agricultural and rural development". Under the "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" mission as a whole, the Government is requesting the opening of €2.96 billion in commitment authorizations and €2.97 billion in payment appropriations, 1.2% less and 1.1% more than in 2020, respectively. After taking into account CP's €398.4 million of the recovery plan, the ministry's budget reached €3.5 billion in 2021, an increase of 13.6%. More than half of these appropriations fall under programme 149, which brings together the Ministry's resources for farmers and its operators' subsidies. Three strong axes attract our attention. First, direct aid to farmers includes EUR 350 million for the structuring of the sectors and the modernisation of enterprises and EUR 70 million for the renewal of generations. We believe that these measures must first and foremost benefit collective structures, such as joint equipment cooperatives, which we should support. Secondly, the development of a more environmentally friendly agriculture will mobilise EUR 126 million, including agri-environmental and climate measures, aid for conversion to organic farming and the future organic fund, the amount of which has doubled since 2018. Thirdly, more than EUR 300 million will be spent on forestry and fish farming. After three very rich reports from the IGF – the General Inspectorate of Finance – the CGAAER – the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas – the Court of Auditors and our colleague Special Rapporteur Anne-Laure Cattelot, the difficulties of the forest and the wood companies as well as those of its operators, the National Forestry Office and the National Forest Ownership Centre, are known. The EUR 252 million increase of the "Sustainable Forest Management" project and the EUR 200 million of the recovery plan, including EUR 82 million of investments, form the foundation stone of the building. So this is an ambitious budget, but the key to success is the achievement of all the millions of euros that we are going to put on the table for the agricultural and food sectors as well as for the forest. We will pay particular attention to the proper implementation of these lines of credit, which will make success a condition. As far as fisheries, aquaculture and shellfish are concerned, professionals are in the process of waiting in view of the blocking of negotiations on the UK's exit from the European Union. We will have the opportunity to take a more in-depth look at this in the spring of the evaluation. Beyond the public policies it supports, the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" is presented in a sincere way. Crisis management will be based on two envelopes of a total of EUR 200 million, including, for the fourth consecutive year, a contingency provision that has demonstrated its relevance. Tax expenditure – which still amounts to EUR 2.2 billion – is now better documented, and we can only welcome it. The department's means of operation are included in Program 215. With EUR 631 million, it consists of almost 90% of staff costs. The department and its operators will employ 14715 full-time equivalents worked in 2021, 415 fewer than in 2020. We would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the relevance of this decline in the light of the additional work that will be involved in the training and payment of support for the recovery plan. The exercise will be marked by the continuation of three projects: conducting computer projects, successfully completing the ten-year agricultural census between September 2020 and 2021 and rationalizing the Ministry's real estate implementation. Many are mobilizing, like us, in the face of the EUR 10 million reduction in the special allocation account "Agricultural and rural development". We contest the 11.8% decrease in sales actually achieved in 2019 and the estimates for 2020. While this decrease is offset by the recovery plan, this EUR 126 million should not be a new structural stretch after a reduction of EUR 12 million already made in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know that we can count on the necessary guarantees from the Government and, according to the committee's favourable opinion, we call for voting on this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u6	Mr Michel Lauzzana, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u7	While the 206 programme, of which I am the Special Rapporteur, has the least of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, it is nevertheless essential because it finances public policies that ensure the health of plants and animals and food safety at all stages of their production and distribution, serving the health of consumers. This is reflected in its budgetary dynamics: while the appropriations for the mission are stable, those for the 206 programme increase by more than 5%, in both commitment and payment appropriations, mainly in favour of actions relating to the fight against animal diseases. I welcome, of course, this welcome, necessary and proportionate progress. Next April, the entry into force of the European Animal Health Regulation will indeed lead to more health checks and will require the recasting of the national animal identification computer system. In addition, the increase in the number of bovine tuberculosis and salmonella, in particular, requires strict measures. Animal health appropriations, which had increased by almost a quarter this year, are maintained at the high level they had reached. Containing the scourges of Asian Capricorn and Xylella fastidiosa in particular requires substantial means, as the grubbing up of contaminated plants or trees is essential to prevent their spread. Entered into force in December 2019, the European Plant Health Regulation also strengthened import controls on plants and seeds. Funding for health control of food is increasing significantly. This will in particular fund the long-term control of food of animal or vegetable origin intended for human consumption and produced in the vicinity of the Lubrizol plant in Rouen, in order to detect any possible trace of pollution following the fire on 26 September 2019. Satisfactory in many respects, the significant increase in appropriations under Programme 206 is complemented by several sub-actions of the Recovery Plan mission, in particular under Action 05 "Agricultural Transition" of its Programme 362 "Ecology". However, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to a number of points. First of all, the issue of the resources of ANSES, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour, is of increasing concern. The very slight increase in the public service subsidy paid under Programme 206 is not sufficient to compensate for the decline in the funding provided for in the other programmes, the amount of which is artificially inflated by the rebudgeting of assigned taxes. The operator's own resources are also decreasing as a result of the health crisis and for structural reasons, even as the scope of his tasks continues to expand. For example, ANSES will have to recruit to carry out a new economic analysis mission that will be delegated to it. I therefore strongly stress the need for a thorough reflection on the means of this agency, which is also very involved in the management of the crisis. Secondly, the inclusion of the appropriations for the modernization of the slaughter tool or animal welfare in the "Relaunch Plan" mission gives me the opportunity to revisit a problem that I had already mentioned last year. Veterinary inspections in slaughterhouses are more numerous post-mortem than ante-mortem. However, it is the ante-mortem inspection that makes it possible to ensure that animals are properly contracted. There is general agreement that it would take between fifty and one hundred FTEs – full-time equivalents – to devote to these controls in order to make a significant improvement in the situation, I would like to stress. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, at a time when the Court of Auditors is drawing up a mixed assessment of the ecophyto plan, I would urge that we actively promote the development of biocontrol products, which naturally help to combat threats to crops in order to speed up the reduction in the number of doses-units of pesticides sold.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u8	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u9	The debates on the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" budget of the 2021 Finance Bill are in a particularly troubled context, following the Government's statement on new measures to stop the coronavirus epidemic. The Prime Minister recalled the importance that the measures we are taking to slow down the epidemic do not paralyze our country's forces; But one of these forces is agriculture. Allowing our farmers to work and live from their production must therefore be a priority, already in the short term, but not only. With the budget for 2021, the Government and the majority want to provide effective, accurate and useful responses to the challenges facing agriculture. It is a question of responding to emergencies, but also of drawing in the longer term this agricultural ideal which carries in it a triple requirement: a fairer remuneration; an agriculture that protects our environment; a system that ensures our food security. Exercise is complex. Agriculture was already in arrears before the health crisis and the current economic situation adds an additional difficulty. The recovery plan measures, worth more than EUR 1.1 billion, are specifically designed to deal with the crisis, strengthen food sovereignty, accelerate the agro-ecological transition and adapt agriculture and forest to climate change. These are unprecedented investments because we believe in our farmers and their work. The quality of our productions benefits the French but also makes the strength of our exports: agriculture cannot be strong without the export market, which in no way means that the interest of a more local agriculture and short-term sectors must be minimized. At the same time, this budget, which amounts to EUR 2.9 billion in commitment and payment appropriations, is fully in the service of economically sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. This year, the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission contains targeted measures to respond appropriately to the sector's expectations. Yes, this budget supports farmers' income and ecological transition. The Fund's appropriations for agri-food industries are on the rise, in order to finance an accompanying programme for SMEs, and those for the future organic fund are stable at €8 million – they had doubled since 2018. Action 25 "Social protection" also benefits from an increase of 10 million euros, with the extension until January 2023 of the TODE scheme – casual workers seeking employment. Yes, this budget focuses on the sustainable management of forests and strengthening their resilience: increased appropriations for action 26 "Sustainable forest management and development of the timber sector", plus the €200 million that the recovery plan devotes to this item. Yes, this budget takes into account the issues of food safety: €30 million increase in the appropriations of the 206 programme "Safety and quality of food". The traceability of live animals will be improved through the redesign of the national identification database. The official controls on the health conditions for the production, import and marketing of food of animal origin will have an additional EUR 2 million. In addition to this, €500,000 will be used to finance the launch of an Internet platform for the statistical centralisation of data on sustainable and quality products in collective restoration. Yes, this budget is geared towards the innovation and training of our young people. Thus, the placements at the installation, whose aim is to encourage the renewal of generations, will benefit from a revalued value of 600,000 euros. In addition, €645 million of commitment and payment appropriations will go to teaching and research. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This budget reflects the Government's strong commitment to continue to support our agriculture. Since 2017, we have been seeking to adapt public action to the challenges that are already at our doorstep, as well as to the challenges we face in building the agriculture of tomorrow. Productivity, competitiveness, diversification, multi-performance, all major issues that must not overshadow what constitutes the heart of things: people and land, the renewal of generations, modernization, agro-ecological transition, diversification, protection and access to land are all identified topics on which we are working to restore its vitality to tricolor farming. There is no agriculture without farmers. The budgets we have been voting since 2017 reflect these ambitions, for today and for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u10	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u11	There are moments in the political life where we are led to rise, in any case from depth. I do not doubt for a second that this will be the case today, knowing the Members present and yourself, Mr.Minister, but also because the circumstances force us to do so collectively. We could draw inspiration from our history. I am thinking of Gambetta, who said that if the peasants were armed to defend the boundaries of their fields, they would also defend the steps of the Republic. Long before Péguy, he had said the strength of the roots of the French peasantry and its link with the defence of the values of the Republic. We could also draw inspiration from the great Edgar Pisani and from all those who, after having passed the test with honour, met in a coalition to carry out policies based on the principles of justice and regulation, conditions for the prosperity of French agriculture. We could also listen to the cries coming to our time on the other side of the Mediterranean, bearing witness to the increase in hunger in the world, not so much because of the lack of peasantry, but because of the economic difficulties associated with the first wave of the covid-19 and now with the second wave; They recreate the conditions of a famine in which the peasants will be the first victims, everywhere on the planet. We would be right to take that height, because the world after begins now, in our debates defining a trajectory for the agricultural world and food. I must say that the moment is quite singular for the socialists. For the past three years, almost four now, we have consistently and consistently advocated for five items that are on the agenda of the recovery plan and this budget, and intellectual honesty requires me to say that we welcome this: the problems of land and settlement, that is, the renewal of generations; the protein plan; the question of producer associations and more broadly of group agriculture; Territorial food plans and promotion of value-added mentions – such as AB, for organic farming, or HVE, for high environmental quality – for which we will propose in-depth reforms; agroecology and phytopharmaceuticals, which must be managed otherwise than by Picrocholine crises that ruin public credit and are not good for anyone, consumers or producers. You can see that we have consistently defended these five themes – and we don't have any glory – through amendments, requests and forums, which, for the past three years, have found little, if any, echo. I am pleased that they are now, even partially, on your political agenda and in the recovery plan. But the devil nests in the details, and we will be extremely attentive to how they will be implemented. Our amendments will be an opportunity to exchange views, to get you to know what you intend to do with this money and to suggest proposals to you. In this connection, I would like to say that it is grave and sad that, on finance bills, stimulus plans, contingency plans, virtually no amendment of the socialist opposition, neither the left opposition nor even the opposition in general, is ever taken into account by the Government. We will have time to discuss it later, but we will still measure, beyond agricultural issues, what it means for the National Assembly and the relations between the executive and the legislature that to ignore at this point, in such a period, the goodwill and the strength of the oppositions' proposals; I'll give it to your meditation. We will propose to Roland Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to reactivate the working group which brought together, around Stéphane Travert, Julien Dive, Sébastien Jumel or Richard Ramos, and which had proved to be fruitful since he had formulated twenty-two proposals. During this month of November, in this period of reconstitution, in order to deal with the coming crisis, it might be useful for us to have a parliamentary dialogue with you on the food tensions and the defence of our producers. I'd like to end up with a bit of anger. Ten months ago, we voted, on the proposal of Agnes Buzyn and after a long parliamentary process, to start taking into account plant victims. An amendment, adopted at my initiative, had made it possible to include in the law on the financing of social security the funds necessary for their compensation. However, I have learned with astonishment that the decree implementing this measure has not yet been adopted. I would remind you that you are also the Minister of Agriculture, and I would ask you, together with the Minister of Health, to ensure that Parliament's word is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u12	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u13	First of all, Mr Minister, let me welcome the commitment you have shown in the negotiations on the future common agricultural policy, which led to a compromise, which was then reworked by the European Parliament. The procedure continues; Know that we will see to its successful completion. While the level of appropriations to be allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2021 is generally stable, this applies to certain developments which deserve to be explained. I would like to know why the 149 programme funds allocated to MAECs – agro-environmental and climate measures – and aid for organic farming are falling. On the other hand, the appropriations for the common fisheries policy are stable, while this sector is likely to be heavily affected by Brexit. Can you tell us how you intend to deal with this eventuality, which is now a quasi-certainty? I have noted with interest that the European Parliament wants the future common agricultural policy to extend public intervention to sheep, pigs, poultry and sugar, which until now have been excluded from it, while widening the scope for the organisation of the sectors. These are common sense measures that can be useful in the event of a crisis. Another point is that forestry policy has a 3.9% boost. I know that you are particularly attentive to the issues relating to the French forest, and I welcome this, but I would like to know how these funds will be allocated and whether they will be complemented by the recovery plan. There is also an increase in the resources allocated to the implementation of public policies and the management of interventions. The examination of the dossiers submitted for CAP aid – the common agricultural policy – has for years been characterized by chronic delays. It would seem that the situation is now stabilized, but how do you prepare the way for the future CAP 2023 to be implemented in order to avoid further computer chaos? I have noted with great interest that you have defended the idea of a margin of error accepted in farmers' statements. This measure of common sense, which I have been advocating for for years, will avoid much administrative harassment. In the same spirit, I would point out to you that it is very difficult to find interlocutors when it comes to explaining certain anomalies – differences in figures – found in the management of the files by FranceAgriMer. How would it be possible to put human beings back into this bureaucratic machine? Finally, I would also like to welcome the extension of the TODE scheme, which is valuable for farmers and employers. The 206 "Safety and Quality of Food" programme is ultimately the only one that is really consumer-oriented. How do you plan to print your brand on this program? More specifically, how do you see the evolution of pesticide use control, beyond the specific cases of glyphosate and neonicotinoids, which are emerging? In this regard, I would also like to express the concern of my colleague, Maina Sage, that the particular case of the overseas communities should be taken into account, particularly with a view to developing biocontrol solutions. With regard to the special allocation account for agricultural and rural development, I would like to express my support for the amendment that the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs will be defending. Others also expressed their views in writing. It seems to me important to send a signal, as the chambers of agriculture are going to be heavily asked to accompany our farmers. Finally, in program 215 "Direction et pilotage des politiques de l'agriculture", we are talking about the project of regrouping in Maisons-Alfort de l'ENVA – the National Veterinary School of Alfort –, the ANSES and the NFB – the National Forestry Board – in order to reduce the rents paid by your ministry. Can you tell us the timetable for the implementation of this project and its impact on the finances of the Ministry of Agriculture? In conclusion, I would also like to commend the work of French farmers, who, despite the health problems we face, have always ensured the continuity of the food chain. This deserves a more protective and accompanying common agricultural policy in the ecological transition. It also deserves a budget from the Ministry of Agriculture to match the ambitions of a France capable of ensuring its food sovereignty. [[Applause on committee benches]] Mr Minister, I do not know if you will have time to answer all my questions, but know that the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u14	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u15	The UDI-I Group will vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission – this is already good news – for several reasons. First, the 2.9 billion payment envelope it provides, complemented by the EUR 9.5 billion of the common agricultural policy, indicates that the Government and you in particular are in the right direction overall. We have been, as representatives of the nation, both actors, through the questions that we have asked you here, but also observers of the role played by France in the European negotiations to ensure that the common agricultural policy takes account of the preservation of the environment and biodiversity – so-called greening. [[Smile. – Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You are also moving in the right direction from a strategy point of view. Let's place your action in the perspective of what France has been doing for the last ten years, from Michel Barnier to yourself, Bruno Le Maire, Stéphane Le Foll, Stéphane Travert and Julien Denormandie – I don't forget Didier Guillaume, but I move directly from Stéphane Travert to Julien Denormandie since the first one is Norman...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u16	The Normans are the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u17	I hope that you will continue in the dynamic initiated by the general states of food, by having a number of actors working together from the earth to the plate, from the fork to the fork, from the producer to the consumer. The UDI-I Group attaches particular importance to the protein autonomy of the European Union and France: protein imports must be significantly reduced, especially from Brazil, because they do not respect the environment, as well as the issue of GMOs – genetically modified organisms. On the other hand, we want you to continue your work on animal production, welfare and the transformation of livestock farms that could be described as industrial or off-shore. The viral pandemic that we are going through can only prompt us to draw your attention to the budgets allocated to ANSES and, in each of the departments, to the health defence groups, in order to ensure the closest follow-up of prophylaxis and health prevention. Of course, I come to the control of agricultural land, a subject on which Young farmers, who held their congress just a few days ago, asked you. What about the moratorium on the creation of new large commercial areas in the periphery of cities, particularly large areas of food? We cannot at the same time deploy the "City Action" programme, which you know very well, and allow the construction of additional square meters of food space on the outskirts of cities. Furthermore, the wood industry, from production to processing in France and in the European Union, is of concern to the UDI-I Group. France, which was the third largest exporter of wood in the world in 2005, was only sixth in 2017; This development must challenge us. Finally, before the end of the legislature, a road map must clearly provide for the extinction of the use of dangerous plant protection products, by dealing with the emblematic case of neonicotinoids, which was mentioned by Antoine Herth, as well as that glyphosate. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Another important point for IDU-I Members is the malaise, the ill-being of many farmers. They must feel supported. I am convinced that this is what you do through your role and your speeches, but they need human support and encouragement on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u18	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u19	This particular period will have demonstrated the resilience of our agricultural model. While suffering from labour shortages and new logistical constraints, it has managed to ensure our daily supply. It has also overcome the crisis of outlets resulting from the closure of restaurants and school canteens as well as the decline in exports. As we enter a new phase of containment, agriculture, which has already been tested, will again face these difficulties, which we already know will be contrasted according to regions and sectors. Will this budget allow her to cross the torment? This year, the Mission's appropriations, amounting to €2.9 billion, are up slightly, but are likely to remain insufficient to enable farmers to meet the challenges ahead. These appropriations, I am well aware, constitute only a small part of the resources allocated to agricultural policy; the largest share of the agricultural budget is determined at European level by the common agricultural policy. The retention of EUR 62.4 billion in the CAP budget, following the agreement reached on Wednesday 21 October between European agriculture ministers – we congratulate you, Minister – and the European Parliament's vote seven days later, is a real relief. This should not, however, constitute a reason for satisfecit. Indeed, maintaining facial value is only a facade because, given inflation, it may result in a decline in resources. I will not repeat the discussions on the common agricultural policy here, but I would like to express my concern about the ability of the budget to guarantee fair remuneration for farmers. I am also concerned about the renationalisation of aid, which can only increase the distortion of competition at Community level and which goes back to the objective of greening our agriculture. In this connection, the agro-ecological transition will be allocated EUR 494 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 510 million in payment appropriations for the national counterparts of measures included in the CAP: the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps, aid for agri-environmental and climatic measures and aid for conversion. In addition, EUR 1.2 billion will be provided for in the Agricultural Transition Recovery Plan. I fear, however, that this boost – a passenger in the recovery plan – will not be enough to steer agriculture towards a more environmentally friendly model. Similarly, the funds allocated to applied research and innovation in agriculture seem to us to be very inadequate, particularly in view of the need to reduce our dependence on pesticides, whereas, when considering the draft law on the conditions for placing certain plant protection products on the market in the event of a health hazard, we discussed at length the need to accompany the search for alternative solutions to neonicotinoids and, more generally, plant protection products. It is worrying that this priority is not reflected in concrete terms in the appropriations for this mission, despite the ambitions shown. However, there is an urgent need to speed up research in this area. I am thinking, for example, of integrated pest management, which combines several techniques – biological control through crop diversification and physical control through the application of a protective layer of paraffin oil or clay to crops – and requires us to review research methods to promote knowledge sharing rather than silos. With regard to farmers' remuneration, I regret that the sharing of added value remains largely in favour of large-scale distribution. The EGALIM law will only bear fruit if these side effects are corrected. Are you ready, Minister? Until this central issue is resolved, we will not be able to guarantee the renewal of generations of farmers. Indeed, the first lever to encourage the establishment of young farmers is the guarantee that they will be able to live decently in their profession. The allocation of funding for young farmers and plant placements alone will not be sufficient to counter the desertion movement of the countryside. We are also waiting for your proposals for agricultural land reform, so that farms remain accessible to young farmers. This mission, however, has a truly positive point: the extension until 2023 of the exemption from employers' charges for the employment of casual workers seeking employment in the PLFSS, which was a long-standing application by the Libertés et Territoires group. In conclusion, we believe that the limited increase in the appropriations of the Mission and the Department will not be able to address decisively the structural problems affecting our agriculture. In addition, there is a lack of concrete methods for changing paradigms. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group will abstain mostly from the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u20	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u21	"A forester is only an heir: he always inherits the work of others. We inherit. Now, what are we gonna give? Our profession, for me, has a form of nobility: at the social level, at the environmental level, we have a lot of interests. But looking only at the financial prism loses that interest. These words are those of Cyril Gilet, forest guard of the National Forest Board in Nièvre. For more than thirty years, the National Forestry Office has been bleeding: one in two posts has been abolished and the number of its officers has fallen from 15,000 to 8,000 for all public forests. Foresters talk about a loss of sense of their profession. They are called upon to collect more and more wood to cover the NFB's debts, abandoned by the public authorities. Human tragedies have been colossal, with more than fifty suicides in the establishment since 2002, a higher rate than in France Télécom. With this budget, the bleeding continues. You are once again abolishing almost 100 civil servants' posts; In previous years, you had already destroyed nearly 300 jobs. The Citizen Climate Convention, which the President of the Republic wanted the proposals to be implemented as soon as possible, already signalled the weakening of the public forestry service. I quote: "Therefore, it is imperative to sustain the existence of the National Forestry Board and to increase its staff. Our colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot, who is part of your majority, is calling for a consolidated budget for the National Forestry Board. As for the minister of ecological transition, she even chose the Fontainebleau public forest for her first trip. There is far from your great words to reality. The reality is that you want to save money on a public operator that you think is useless and too expensive. That is why, in your previous law on the liquidation of public action, you have frozen the number of civil servants' posts and allowed the NFB to recruit contract employees under private law, who carry out the same tasks as sworn agents, while the status of civil servant protects agents from economic pressure. All this because contract workers cost 20% less than civil servants! This accounting vision is a disaster. Public forests cover 10% of French territory. Forests are a carbon sink, absorbing 15% of our greenhouse gas emissions. They are essential to the water cycle and its quality. They shelter biodiversity, protect against soil erosion, and welcome the public. To further reduce the resources of the National Forestry Office is to deprive us of a major opportunity to fight climate change, it is to deprive us of public expertise and essential know-how in times of ecological emergency. As in industrial agriculture, where machines and pesticides have gradually replaced the know-how of farmers, you lead us to a forest without forest. We know that industrial agriculture has led us to disaster. The damage will be the same if the industrialization of the forest is necessary. The money first leads only to allowing multinationals to take their hands on our forests, to practice "malforestation" and to mistreat the men and women who work there. However, in the recovery plan, you prefer to give millions to forest owners to carry out a reforestation plan without strict ecological conditions, contrary to what Anne-Laure Cattelot had requested in her report. In other words, existing forests can be replaced by monocultures, on the pretext that their trees, although in good health, are considered financially unproductive. Recently, 50 CNRS researchers have alerted all parliamentarians to the need to diversify species to make forests more resilient to climate change. Let us not let our forests become silent tree fields, without the singing of a single bird, without biodiversity! It is time for forest planning. The troubled period we are going through must not prevent us from keeping our heads cold and thinking about the long time. The forest is incompatible with the rhythm of capitalism. As the NFB's agent Cyril put it, the foresters "inherited a long-term work and left this common good to future generations." The ecological and climate emergency requires us to strengthen the capacity of the National Forestry Board and its agents. The State must ensure the full-cost financing of their missions, which must be refocused around carbon storage, the protection of water resources, the maintenance of forest cover, the prevention of the risks of fire, erosion and flooding, the reception of the public and the valorisation of wood so that the first and the second transformation take place in France. Finally, the NFB cannot depend on the Department of Agriculture, because the forest can only be viewed from an economic point of view, as a mere deposit of wood that should adapt to the global industry. We already know how to do otherwise. Minister, place it under the supervision of the Ministry of Ecological Transition or, if you intend to take seriously the scale of the ecological challenges ahead, finally inaugurate a ministry dedicated to the forest! [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] Finally, I will have only one question – gracefully, in your answer, spare me the arguments of the lobbys. How can you say that your forestry policy is guided by an unprecedented ambition while the number of positions of those with expertise and know-how continues to decrease?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u22	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u23	As we begin the discussion on the agricultural budget, I cannot help but think of the farmers in my territory, especially those in the country of Bray, who have been hit very hard by the fall in milk prices; I think of them and their concerns. Last spring, we went through an unprecedented health crisis – and we're about to go through another – that dramatically upset our agriculture. Even if they have been able to innovate and react, the farmers of France have been marked, whole sectors have been weakened or even threatened, such as the cider sector in Normandy, but also the meat sector, the dairy sector and the fishery – I will not have time to talk about it, but I know that the fishermen have been deeply shaken. As the net value of the common agricultural policy declines, all these sectors are waiting very much for our debate. While the situation required the Government and the majority of them to have a contingency plan that met the challenges, you only spend 1% of the amount of the plan on these lines. Of course, there are some interesting leads – I will come back – but the means seem to us to be sorely lacking. Taken as a whole, the agricultural budget stagnates, some of its core tasks even diminishing: you are planning a reduction of almost €23 million in appropriations for the modernization and renewal of farms, and €12 million in appropriations for the balanced management of the territories; These measures are incomprehensible in the current context. In the face of the major challenges facing our agriculture, the resources allocated by the budget are insufficient. With this budget – this is the central question for Communist MPs – the peasants will not be protected by the king market. In Normandy, for example, the dairy sector is once again sacrificed on the altar of the sacrosanct market: international firms bleed the incomes of producers to increase their margins, and dairy farmers are called upon to convert to organic farming – which could be a laudable objective – but without touching any means on the part of the State, while their incomes melt in the sun, because of fluctuations in world prices. Moreover, two years to the day after its promulgation, the agricultural budget still does not draw lessons from the EGALIM law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all. Large-scale distribution and agri-food companies continue to make the law, and our farmers can no longer live out of their trade – there were many traffic jams in front of supermarkets in recent days – or respond alone to legitimate societal injunctions. So, when's a price regulation plan? When are tax-binding measures against companies that get on the farmers' backs? When will a massive and long-term investment in the processing of farms, in particular in order to initiate an ecological bifurcation? It will not be for this year, apparently, although other threats are emerging: CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada – and the free trade agreement with MERCOSUR – the Common Market of South America – are still in the sights and, instead of proposing measures to protect against social and environmental dumping, you are preparing our agriculture for a CAP that is not up to date. In the face of the destruction of our agricultural population, the means are lacking. As our forest burns – Mathilde Panot has demonstrated it brilliantly –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u24	No, not brilliant...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u25	... and that it needs additional resources, ninety-five jobs will still be abolished in 2021. There is a lack of resources to combat food insecurity that is becoming increasingly common at the global level – Dominique Potier recalled this – but also in our country: 5.5 million French were involved in 2019, and the crisis will worsen hunger. There is also a lack of resources to respond to the challenge of transforming the sectors into agro-ecology. Although you are doing a great deal of effort, minister, listening and respecting, being more committed than your predecessor, your intentions are unfortunately not accompanied by means. Austerity requires you to reduce the means and jobs in local administrations, which, however, accompany our peasants, but also those of public agricultural education and applied public research, even though, in many fields – particularly the flax sector, in my home – the needs are immense, especially in the face of the challenge of global warming that strikes them hard. Of course, we welcome openings and awareness, including the introduction of the protein plan we were asking for – Dominique Potier mentioned it – and territorial food plans. These are good measures. I hope that your open-mindedness with regard to agricultural land will materialise. However, the budget does not provide for any means to accompany all this. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would have wanted to say to the farmers in the Bray country, the dairy and the herders, that this time the Government had taken the measure of the crisis, that it finally demanded a new ambitious and protective CAP, but I am afraid that I will not be able to do so again today. That is why we will vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u26	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u27	The review of the credits of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" is an opportunity for us to pay tribute to farmers, fishermen, aquaculturists, all the channels that have held the shock throughout the first epidemic wave and confinement, thus allowing the French to feed themselves with healthy and sustainable products. Faced with the test, these women and men who were essential to the nation stood up in difficulty and demonstrated their commitment at every moment. As we live in a new confinement, I know that once again they will hold: they will hold the second line, they will hold the backs, allowing our country to live better these moments of anxiety and uncertainty. Our agriculture is at a turning point. Indeed, it is a ground for profound transformation, not only that of an economic sector, but also of a form of organization of our society, of many territories and of choice of food, sometimes also a field of choice of crisis, or even post-crisis. For today as for tomorrow, we must therefore build together this profound change and transitions, avoiding Manichean debates, giving meaning, nuance and time to our reflections. We approach the year 2021 with conviction, vigilance, because of the situation, but also with confidence, because we know those who farm. The effective application of the so-called EGALIM law enters its third year, revealing its true benefits on our agriculture and food. The 2021 budget fulfils the commitments of the whole Government and the Minister of Agriculture and Food on agro-ecological transition: it provides for €494 million in commitment authorisations and €510 million in payment appropriations for national counterparts for the measures included in the CAP. In addition, the 2021 budget supports the competitiveness of our agricultural and agri-food sectors, maintaining the benefits of the TODE scheme, but also by maintaining the young farmers' allocation, which has been increasing since last year, the compensatory payments for natural handicaps – ICHN –, which are so necessary in many of our territories, and the appropriations dedicated to the chambers of agriculture, in order to build the projects of the rural territories, which I welcome. So many just decisions to reaffirm our solidarity with the firm France. Of course, a few questions remain, particularly with regard to CASDAR, but you will certainly give us all the necessary answers, Minister. The 2021 agriculture budget is also a support budget, which prepares the future by accompanying the innovation and training of our young people. The appropriations for agricultural education increase by EUR 14 million, in order to promote and renovate technical education, in order to better align with our common ambition of a rapid agro-ecological transition. I, in turn, pay tribute to the entire educational community of agricultural education, which, throughout the year, with its students, students and researchers, is doing an absolutely wonderful job. In addition to the very ambitious stimulus plan that you presented to us, Minister, Budget 2021 is perfectly in line with the ambitious financial laws for 2018, 2019 and 2020. What is its main characteristic? It is "a budget that holds, a budget that maintains, a budget that supports," to use the formula of our colleague Gregory Besson-Moreau. The La République group will therefore vote for this budget consistent with our objectives and those set by the President of the Republic. We fully support you in the performance of your duties, Minister, and I, the first, who know the difficulty of preparing a budget such as that of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This budget commits us, it commits our fellow citizens; It meets the promise of the EGALIM law to transform our agriculture and will allow us to work better to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens tomorrow. I bounced back on Dominique Potier's proposal: to relaunch the working group that we had set up during the first confinement, through which we were able to examine the sectors, work with them, present a number of plans and information, and formulate proposals. Thanks to this working group, we were able to continue the dialogue with all agricultural sectors and professions, which, although sometimes rough, was necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] Meeting the promise of the EGALIM law to transform our agriculture means better paying our farmers and meeting the societal demands for a safe, healthy and sustainable diet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u28	Due to the holding of the Conference of Presidents, the meeting was suspended for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u29	The meeting was resumed. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u30	Unfortunately, the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission of Budget 2021 seems to be very timid in the face of the challenges that we will have to face in the coming months. Of course, there is the situation, the context of this terrible crisis which affects all sectors and does not spare agriculture, but also a structural problem which will require major adaptations to our farmers, who will therefore have to be accompanied and strongly supported by the State. Behind the relentless coldness of the figures in this budget for 2021 is the will – or lack of will – to be alongside those who feed us, who take care of our landscapes, who export, who create or maintain jobs, who carry out a major activity in our countryside. With regard to political voluntarism, Mr Minister, I have no doubt that you want to be with our farmers. Your courageous stances over the past few weeks, your Norman family roots, and even Ornaises, your presence on the ground pleads in this direction. However, as much as your personal commitment is reassuring, this budget is much less so. Beyond the lines of payment appropriations and commitment authorizations, an agricultural budget is above all the ringing and staggering expression of the will of the State and the Government to decline a clear strategy for the benefit of those who provide our subsistence, our daily food security. First, Budget 2021 is on the decline, considering the commitment authorizations, i.e. the ability to consider support for our agriculture, which needs it more than ever. While payment appropriations are increasing, they are only resuming disbursement commitments made in recent years. Second, we share the objectives you set out in this mission: to combine the economic and environmental performance of farms, agri-food and forestry sectors; investing in rural areas and future directions; prevent and respond to health risks; encourage and support the establishment of young people and the renewal of generations by focusing on training and innovation. The 149 "Competitiveness and Sustainability of Agriculture, Agri-Food, Forestry, Fisheries and Aquaculture" program is the most affected: it is down by almost 5% from the 2020 budget. This is all the more serious because it alone accounts for 58 per cent of the mission's budget as well as the main expenditure for the various actors in the sector. This programme includes the most important schemes for the agricultural sector. In particular, it provides for national co-financing of CAP rural development measures, including support for breeding in areas under natural constraints, the installation of young farmers and agro-environmental measures. With regard to the CAP, the current facial stabilisation of the budget for the period 2023-2030 in euro is welcome, a real relief among the sectors bears witness to this. However, it does not remove the uncertainties about its practical application in terms of eco-conditionality, degressivity thresholds and capping, which could seriously affect the most modern and efficient farms. As you know, the agricultural sector has been facing profound difficulties for many years, which have increased further with the current health crisis. I fear that the 2021 budget will be too weak to meet the challenges facing us in a tense general context and a particularly worrying agricultural context: the dramatic consequences of the droughts experienced over the past three summers; new burdens and constraints imposed by the EGALIM law; uncertainties as to the maintenance of burden exemptions for seasonal agricultural workers; the forced-walk regionalisation of agricultural chambers, which are moving away from the land; worrying developments in international agricultural trade with the Russian embargo, the trade war between the United States and China and the European Union's trade agreements; Finally, the price of disappointing milk and the price of meat completely disconnected from the cost price. The EGALIM glamour, which we had announced, is true every day; It is lived by our peasants as a disillusionment and injustice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u32	This law, supposed to restore margins to farmers by reversing the balance of power between producers and buyers, did not at all rebalance commercial relations. The meat sector in particular is in the midst of a crisis, as production costs are not taken into account in the calculation of the buying-in price, which continues to fall. Dramatic situations persist and are growing on many farms specializing in the rearing of young cattle, taurillons or meat animals. Finally, another priority identified by the Government is to give substantial resources to research. While there are real emergencies in this regard to accompany the environmental transition and exit plant protection products – neonicotinoids and glyphosate – the CASDAR budget, which finances R&amp;D and innovation, is in sharp decline. How can we not be surprised by this flagrant and shocking contradiction? In conclusion, this 2021 budget has laudable intentions and objectives that we share, but does not match the stated ambitions in its figures. You have the will but it is Bercy who holds the cords of the purse and who visibly, and I regret it, has not understood the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u33	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u34	This year again, I believe, we can only admire our farmers, who, through their hard work, have been able to demonstrate resilience, inventiveness and voluntarism in order to maintain the continuity of the food supply. With the 2021 finance bill, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is fully grateful to our farmers and intends to help them through the economic crisis while allowing them to continue to meet the challenges we set ourselves at the beginning of the quinquennium: improving their income, strengthening the competitiveness of their operations and agro-ecological transformation. This budget also provides very ambitious means for our forests, to enable them to respond to the many challenges assigned to them, including the fight against climate change, I wished to welcome him. I believe, minister, that the forest is a passion we have in common. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats fully shares these objectives. I shall therefore point out, during my speech, only four specific elements which seem particularly important to me. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to specialized fruit and vegetable crops, which suffer from difficulties in recruiting seasonal workers. They need a pedagogy to get our consumers to accept that French products are selling at prices that are certainly slightly higher than imported products, simply because they are of better quality. That is why our group is calling for the sustainability of the TO DE system, whose renewal for the year 2021 has already been approved. This sustainability appears to be essential for the seasonal labour force sectors, where labour costs are an important competitiveness issue. I will now concentrate on forestry, as the timber sector represents the future for many of our rural territories and for France, since its resources only require more efficient exploitation. Moreover, this sector is fully in line with our commitment to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. During the review of the ASAP bill – speeding up and simplifying public action – my group invested heavily in combating the extreme fragmentation of forest ownership. We have managed to sustain an experiment allowing forest managers to access the digital cadastre and thus easily identify the owners to offer them joint management. This is just a first step. Support for the timber sector also requires tax incentives. We will therefore defend an amendment aimed at increasing the allocation of funds to the National Forest Ownership Centre, in order to improve the management of private forests. This would make it possible to boost the mobilization of the timber sector, in accordance with sustainable management conditions, and to adapt forests to climate change. I would like to ask you about the DEFI forest – a tax incentive for forest investment. Could you elaborate on the choices that have been made with regard to this simple and effective device? I would, of course, also like to address the issue of irrigation and water storage. There is considerable reluctance in some territories to deal with water storage projects. However, this is a major issue for agriculture, as this storage is the only way to prevent extreme droughts that farmers are now experiencing on a recurring basis. It is also the best way to maintain numerous and diverse farms. That is why the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) would appreciate a strong encouragement in this regard. A mission was carried out by prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch on the subject; I would like you to be able to give us the results and tell us about your ambitions and your road map. Here again, progress has been made in several texts. In particular, in the ASAP bill, we adopted an amendment by the rapporteur giving the Council of State direct jurisdiction to hear first and last instance the judicial remedies brought against decisions on draft works, as well as an administrative simplification measure to reduce the length of litigation, which severely limit and discourage projects. These advances are important, but our farmers need a much clearer framework on water resource management. Finally, I will conclude my remarks with the Overseas Territories. Working towards greater food autonomy for each territory is essential. We must therefore preserve the funds intended to finance the food independence of the Overseas Territories by 2030. I know you are very sensitive to these questions and thank you in advance for all the answers you can give us on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] On these four subjects, Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats would like to benefit from your analysis. In any event, of course, we will vote enthusiastically for this ambitious budget and would like to affirm here our full support for your action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u35	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u36	I have the honour to present to you this morning the credits of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" in a unique context, marked both by new tragedies within the Republic and by a pandemic that continues to grow, but also marked by a value, a dynamic that obliges us: unity. In the face of the challenges that the Republic faces, above all the divisions that can oppose us, unity must remain the cardinal point of all our actions. In this particular context, these women and men, farmers and herders, are again contributing every day to what makes the Republic, to the cement that binds all its stakeholders: those who, because of their hard work day after day, manage to ensure that the Republic holds. The Republic held, during the first confinement, thanks to the people who were on the front line, but also thanks to those who were acting on the second line, those women and men whom I have just mentioned and to whom I would like to begin by paying tribute at this moment. It goes without saying that the determination of the farmers who hold the country is once again complete at the dawn of this new confinement. In the face of this unique and special context, we must present a budget that is commensurate with the challenges. Adding payment appropriations and commitment authorisations for agricultural education, the budget I am presenting includes an EI volume of approximately EUR 4.8 billion. If I add the appropriations of the recovery plan, EUR 1.2 billion, as well as the European funds and appropriations, which exceed EUR 9 billion, as well as the various tax arrangements, the means provided for implementing the Ministry's policies approach a total of EUR 20 billion per year. This is obviously a very ambitious amount, very important, but the situation demands it. I usually say – you have often heard me stress this – that it is not the budget that should guide the policy, but the policy that should guide the budget. At this moment, I therefore owe it to you to present my vision of the policy that I intend to pursue and to explain to you how it leads me to present this budget to you. My vision is one word: sovereignty. The main challenge facing the agricultural and agri-food systems is sovereignty. We are too dependent on many factors, sometimes for years. Because a strong nation cannot be strong without strong agriculture, we must in any case regain sovereignty, and that is even more true now. We have seen very well that all the countries that have resisted food challenges, especially during periods of containment, are those that have strong agriculture and food. It is therefore more essential than ever to meet the challenge of sovereignty. In concrete terms, gaining sovereignty means being less dependent. The first dependency is the dependence on the market, that is to say on income, which several of you have mentioned. The mother of the battles in the agricultural world remains and will remain the distribution of value. As former Minister Stéphane Travert pointed out, this is the subject that the EGAs, the states-general of agriculture, have launched. In the face of this challenge, how complex the distribution of value is, I move forward with three simple ideas: trust – a state of mind has changed; requirement – the EGALIM law must be implemented from end to end, with all the related sanctions and controls – transparency – because it allows us to change the balance of power of trade relations. To put these ideas into practice, I asked Serge Papin, who had moderated the EGA 5 workshop, to come and help us again. The second determining factor, on income, is obviously the common agricultural policy. Several of you have stressed this: the common agricultural policy that we have just negotiated between ministers is an immense step forward on two points. Firstly, the financial base has been consolidated: with more than €20 billion more, we are far from the Commission's first proposal. Secondly, this common agricultural policy leads for the first time to convergence among all Member States on environmental challenges; No one can accept that, on our stalls, two cucumbers continue to be offered, both products in Europe but according to different environmental standards and, as a result, sold to consumers at different prices. My first determination, with this budget, is therefore to improve the income of our farmers. The second dependency is dependence on the hazards of climate change, which must be addressed through investment. First, in the recovery plan, we will dedicate a EUR 100 million line to finance the development of protective equipment to address the hazards of climate change, such as anti-hail nets in arboriculture or the improvement of irrigation systems. Secondly, as former Minister Stéphane Travert has said, we are planning EUR 594 million in EA and EUR 510 million in CP for the national counterparts of the measures included in the CAP, one of the specific features of which is precisely the fight against these hazards. On the other hand, the budget contains measures to encourage the retention in the territories, to which I know all of you are attached: I am thinking, for example, of ICHN, agro-environmental measures or conversion to bio. And then, special attention must be paid to the forest, to which 200 million euros are dedicated in the recovery plan. In this area, the increase in appropriations for forestry policy and the follow-up to the report drawn up by rapporteur Anne-Laure Cattelot are also essential points. The last point I want to mention about the fight against the hazards of climate change is the issue of water, the very foundation of agriculture, as Mr Turquois said, and is a major challenge. On this point, I welcome the very good progress achieved under the ASAP law adopted this week. In this new framework, our action must be a triptych: simplifying processes, consulting on the ground and moving on to project mode rather than endlessly discussing individual and collective deductions. The third dependency on French agriculture is dependence on imports. As many of you have said, it is no longer acceptable to be so dependent, for example, on Brazilian soya cakes: we must put an end to this system organized for more than fifty years. The famous protein plan, to which the recovery plan devotes more than EUR 100 million, must enable a significant breakthrough in this area. The fourth dependency, which the current situation, particularly that related to the crisis of covid-19, unfortunately reminds us every day, is the dependence on sanitary or phytosanitary issues in the animal field. Budgetary resources dedicated to animal and plant health and protection will therefore increase by 5.2% compared to the previous year. Recognizing the strong commitment of national representation, I wish to develop as cross-cutting an approach in this area as possible; I am thinking, for example, of the One Health initiative, on which Parliament has been very active in recent months. We must also accompany farmers, which is the subject of the ecophyto plan, to which 71 million euros will be allocated, but I know that many questions remain and I commit to you to continue working on this issue in order to try to find the best possible complementarity between the various tools available, namely the budget on the priority research programme, the funds linked to the Grand Investment Plan or the EUR 135 million line provided for in the recovery plan to finance the improvement of agro-equipment, whether it be sprayers or other mechanical devices. Finally, I want to mention the key challenges we face in the area of livestock and biosecurity. Let us not forget that African swine fever occurs in Germany and that the H5N8 virus from Russia and Kazakhstan is now in Holland. The recovery plan includes a €250 million line to modernise slaughterhouses and farms and, in doing so, act on prevention. The fifth dependency of agriculture is dependence on the demographic challenge, which is extremely important and which we must take with us. Indeed, almost half of our French farms will see their farm manager retire in the coming years. The first question in this regard is income: no parent would encourage his or her child to embark on a path that would not provide him or her with a decent income. With regard to the second question, that of support to the installation, mentioned by many of you, this budget maintains the ADI – young farmers' allocation – as part of the programme to accompany the installation, as well as the AITA – accompaniment to the installation-transmission in agriculture. The third, equally crucial, question is that of agricultural education, where, year after year, we see a reduction in the number of learners. Our agricultural education is, however, a French nugget, which all European agriculture ministers, without exception, envy us. At the time of the school year after the holiday of Toussaint, a few days after the atrocious murder of Samuel Paty, a professor at Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, I want once again to salute the commitment of the teaching staff, and in particular of agricultural education. Fourthly, we must address the issue of land, which is already mobilising many of you, in order to find solutions in terms of preservation, valuation and transmission. I will conclude by referring to a number of points which I know Parliament is very sensitive and which have therefore been red lines in this budget for me. As soon as I took office, I wanted to give farmers an answer to the TODE scheme, to which we give a perspective of more than two years – I know that some would have wanted to go further, but we will talk about it again. I also wanted to maintain the budget of the chambers of agriculture, thus ending a debate that has been going on for several years. Indeed, I believe that the chambers of agriculture must be preserved because of their very important task, which is to accompany the momentum that we are giving to agriculture, particularly in the context of the recovery plan. I come to CASDAR, which, I would point out, is financed by levies on the turnover of the various holdings recorded in the year preceding that of the budget concerned, which means that the actual amount of the levies made will most certainly be below the ceiling which this draft finance bill proposes. I know that this is a sensitive subject, and we will have an opportunity to return to it. In response to the proposal made by several of you, I confirm that it would be an excellent idea to reactivate the trans-party working group of Members Travert, Dive, Jumel, Potier and Ramos, whose July 2020 report I had read with great interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I want to tell our fellow citizens that we must continue to consume fresh, French and local products during confinement. The food chain holds and will continue to hold, there is no shortage to be expected, and the period we are going through is a good opportunity to show patriotism and national solidarity. Continuing to consume fresh, French and local products is also a great way to pay tribute to the women and men who mobilize every day and sometimes even every night, to ensure that each of us has access to a quality diet, a key to good health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u37	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u38	I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, to whom I join. On 19 and 20 October, the Council of Ministers for Agriculture reached an agreement, ambitious from an environmental point of view, on the European Union's common agricultural policy for the period 2023-2027. The parliamentary majority welcomes this agreement in which you have invested heavily, Mr Minister, because it will allow a third of direct payments to be conditional on compliance with environmental standards in all Member States. This is a strong measure for a land culture that respects its environment, of which France can and must be proud. The members of the Vine, Wine and Oenology Study Group – of which Ms Verdier-Jouclas is Co-Chair and I, Vice-Chair – welcome the extension of authorisations for wine plantations until 2040, since I believe that the European Parliament has tabled an amendment to postpone this date to 2050. Such a decision is essential for the proper management and regulation of vineyards in line with market developments; it will give greater visibility to the economic operators of our wine sector. This agreement is in line with the agro-ecological measures of the recovery plan, in particular the €76 million tax credit granted to certified high environmental value farms, which will be incorporated into the draft finance law for 2021. It is a financial aid that we can only welcome, since it will strengthen the agro-ecological support of our farmers. Agroecology is a real agricultural priority in times of crisis and change in order to realize our commitments to ecological transition and to ensure a healthy, safe, sustainable, local and quality diet. This is the condition that must be met at all costs to produce well, to eat well and to ensure our health. Minister, can you tell us by what concrete measures this CAP agreement – which we hope will represent a real turning point in how we produce, feed and respect the environment – will translate into action for our French farmers on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u40	The agreement we have reached on the common agricultural policy is indeed essential, and three things must be retained. Firstly, we have an ambitious budget, which was not won in advance, because the first copy given by the European Commission was far below the agreement finally reached. Secondly, we are going to have a greener CAP, but above all a fairer one, because for the first time there will be a real commitment to convergence. In other words, some of the direct payments will be conditioned on environmental measures – 20% according to ministers, 30% according to parliamentarians. In any event, this obligation will apply to all States, which is essential, because we have been repeating for years that the common agricultural policy must be put at the service of convergence and the fight against anything that can lead to unfair competition in the single market. It was for France a very large red line, which we defended with great force alongside other Member States and which we are proud to have made respect. Thirdly, the CAP should allow us to have more sovereignty, in particular in order to develop the protein plan that I have just mentioned, because France must no longer be dependent on American imports of soya meal, for example, but also in order to give the French actors in agriculture a readability – I am thinking in particular of those in the wine sector, Mr Girardin. We got a very important agreement, just before the gong, if I may say, putting all our weight into it, which was quite normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u41	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u42	A significant part of our forests is ill, suffering from a health, environmental and economic disaster. Indeed, the rainfall deficit leads to the proliferation of the scolyte, which kills the trees of our forests. The situation is particularly worrying for the forest-wood sector in the Grand Est, but also in Burgundy-Franche-Comté, Hauts-de-France and Normandy. The NFB estimates that 50% of spruces are affected and pine is also very affected. Scolytes, who usually feed on dead wood, involved in forest regeneration, now attack standing trees. The population of these insects is too large and the trees are weakened by several dry summers. It is imperative to take measures to combat the proliferation of scolytes, in order to limit this epidemic phenomenon that causes the death of forests – a true health disaster. Funding for research needs to be strengthened so that we can develop, as we know, more effective natural treatments to save our forests. I can count on you, Minister, to support our amendments in this direction. What do you intend to do more specifically for the forest sector, which is so heavily affected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u43	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u44	Thank you for this very topical issue for the forest communes, for the state forest, for the private forests and for all those attached to the forest massifs. The crisis of the scolytes very hard affects the forest massifs, especially those of the Great East and Burgundy-Franche-Comté, although, as you pointed out, we find everywhere these insects, including in Normandy. Scolyte attacks are particularly directed at softwoods. They are accelerated by various factors, to which the effects of climate change are not alien. To curb this phenomenon, we identify two main elements of response. The first is prevention. Important work has been carried out with all government departments to identify the timber affected by scolytes as soon as possible, in order to avoid the spread of scolytes. A decree and decrees were then issued in late 2019 to organize the sale of the wood so identified, in areas that would suffer from a shortage of wood. Secondly, we must rethink the reforestation following the attacks of scolytes. That is why I wanted the recovery plan to affect massive investments in forest renewal. In the presence of scolytes, in fact, we have no choice, to limit the spread, but to cut down the sick wood. In some forests, however, the areas concerned are considerable. We must then immediately reforest. So far, this reforestation has been too often limited – the Special Rapporteur has shown this in her report. The recovery plan therefore devotes EUR 150 million to reforestation, in particular for scoly wood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u45	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u46	In the past, primary school pupils learned the words of Sully: "Labouring and grazing are the two mameles of France. For Henri IV's superintendent, France's greatest wealth was its soils and countless peasants. What remains of this ambition today? First European power, world agricultural champion, "Farm France"...: these qualifiers demonstrate that agriculture remains a strategic sector of our economy. Despite the quality of our courses and the excellence of our gastronomy, France has a deficit balance of trade in 2019. Farmers face major difficulties: low income, debt, insufficient labour, loss of sense of trade. They are plagued by deep ill-being, resulting from a lack of recognition and suspicion of which they are victims. The current crisis reminds us of the urgent need to develop short circuits and quality food, with a triple objective: to provide healthy food, to ensure decent incomes for farmers, to protect the environment and biodiversity. This implies major upheavals that the State must accompany. As you know, minister: farmers cannot be asked to make ecological efforts while at the same time requiring them to produce more and less. In the face of unfair international competition, because it is not subject to the same health and environmental requirements, our farmers cannot compete. Let us take the example of the organic sector: at the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government drew up the plan "Ambition bio 2022", whose main objectives were to achieve 15% of useful agricultural area – SAU – in organic and 20% of organic food in collective restoration. A January Senate report says it's unrealistic. Do you agree with this conclusion and do you believe that the Mission's current appropriations are sufficient to achieve these objectives? My second question concerns the wine sector, because I have the chance and the honour to be elected in a constituency of Vaucluse which has villages with prestigious names. This sector has been under pressure in recent months: strong Spanish competition, boycott of the United States, exports affected by the health crisis, effects of climate change, diseases affecting the vine... What means do you have in place to support it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u47	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u48	Your first question refers to a huge challenge: to increase the use of local fresh products in collective catering, especially in canteens. As I mentioned in my introductory speech, I have a vision for French agriculture and agri-food policy: sovereignty. So I have a message for our fellow citizens: eat fresh local, French products; It's the best for your health, it's the best for the planet, and it's often better for your wallet, rather than consuming overprocessed and imported dishes. In this respect, collective catering and canteens face certain obstacles. For example, if the supply of locally produced yogurt does not pose a logistical problem, it is more complicated to get 10 kilos of carrots and 5 kilos of onions to be peeled and cut. The recovery plan wants to remove these territorial blockages. For example, it devotes EUR 50 million to canteens and EUR 80 million to territorial food plans, which are working very well – several of you have stressed this. These resources will provide, inter alia, for the financing of vegetables, which will solve the operational problems of the canteen chiefs. Count on my determination to move forward. Moreover, the wine sector is currently suffering, and will continue to suffer in a context of containment. Starting this summer, with the Prime Minister, we announced a €250 million package to accompany the industry – in particular to support distillation and storage. We will continue to strongly support this sector, which represents part of our identity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u49	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u50	I call the credits of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, listed in state B. The Conference of Presidents has just decided, in the presence of some of you, that in this period of reconstitution, you could defend an amendment of which you would not be a co-signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u51	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u52	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u53	Really? Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u54	Interventions will multiply!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u55	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1724.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u56	I propose to budget, up to EUR 2 million, the product that the tax associated with the use of the Expodon 2 platform should have brought back to the 206 programme "Safety and sanitary quality of food", i.e. EUR 8 per certificate. The aim is to ensure sufficient funding for the maintenance and development of the platform, which is still incomplete but necessary, in order, in particular, to guarantee active support for the competitiveness of agricultural and agri-food exports. It is certainly important to develop local fresh products – and therefore local distribution – but I repeat: a strong France is a strong agriculture; A strong agriculture is a local agriculture, but also an agricultural that exports. Let us not oppose each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u58	This amendment is consistent with the measures we voted in the first part of the finance bill. We are all aware of the importance of the Expodon 2 platform and the expectations it raises among exporters. The amendment has not been discussed in committee, but in my personal capacity I give it a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u59	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1705.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u60	With this appeal amendment, we propose the creation of an organic and local canteen bonus of 330 million euros, in order to achieve the objectives of the EGALIM law. This temporary bonus would help public and private collective restaurants improve the quality of meals – 50% of sustainable products and 20% of organic products by 2022 – through the introduction of new practices. While these proportions are insufficient, financial assistance is needed to reach them. A change in practice implies a need for equipment and training. Furthermore, this measure would be in line with the recommendations of the Citizens' Climate Convention. The transfer of credit that we are proposing complies with the rules imposed by Article 40, but we do not wish to reduce the appropriations for Program 149. We therefore propose to transfer resources from this programme to a new programme entitled "Benefits organic and local canteen".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u61	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u62	This amendment is amply satisfied with the "Agricultural Transition" action of the Recovery Plan, which allocates a €50 million allocation to the development of a healthy, sustainable, quality and local diet in the school canteens of small municipalities. I ask that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u64	Same opinion. The subject you're pointing at is essential, Mrs. Taurine. My goal is to ensure that the objectives of the EGALIM Act are achieved, and therefore to ensure that the supply of collective restoration products bearing signs of quality and origin – SIQO –, bios, quality and local – is significantly increased. The canteens will benefit from EUR 50 million for this purpose, in particular to create vegetables, while EUR 80 million will be allocated to territorial food projects – PAT. During the period 2016-2020, the State supported these plans to the tune of € 6.7 million. This support will reach EUR 80 million over the next two years – that is, our ambition. It is also true that the agricultural area dedicated to organic farming is not sufficient to achieve our objectives. We must therefore increase it considerably.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u65	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u66	The future organic fund – which we are strengthening – and the organic tax credit – which we are maintaining – will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u67	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u68	I have no doubt about your willingness to accompany the agricultural transition, Minister, but I would like to draw your attention to a reality. The first phase of confinement resulted in the closure of school canteens and a significant loss of revenue for local communities. In addition, the crisis has increased poverty; It has blown up the number of people in difficulty who can claim prices close to zero – or, in any case, greatly reduced – in municipal school canteens. Communities, which very legitimately respond to these demands, suffer revenue losses that could deter them from purchasing organic products, local products and from short-term sources. They therefore have a specific need for financial support in this area; They could, if not, decide to reduce the number of their canteens. Mayors are faced with a difficult equation – more families in financial difficulty, more demands, less revenue – that could encourage them to make counter-productive arbitrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u69	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u70	I would like an explanation of the new rule decided by the Conference of Presidents. Will my group, for example, be able to take up Mr Orphelin's amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u71	A Member can only support an amendment whose co-signatory is not a co-signatory if it is tabled by his own group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u72	Ah! It's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u73	[[Smile]] I would have tried! The Socialist and Related Group had drafted an amendment similar to that defended by Mrs Taurine, but it was not accepted for legal reasons. Our group has supported the initiative of the Nicolas Hulot Foundation, the Secours Catholique-Caritas France and Restau'Co, to request assistance of 330 million euros, then 100 million, then 50 million, to support collective restoration. The goal is to provide a healthy meal for all children, a condition for their access to Republican equality. Communities have unequal capacity to respond; State aid is therefore needed to correct them. After a rather intense parliamentary fight last year, collective restoration was supported by EUR 50 million. I fear that it will be the subject of a cup game in the PLF for 2021: are the 50 million entered in the recovery plan the ones we allocated to the corresponding mission last year? If that were the case, the aid would have stagnated. However, we ask you, at a minimum, to double these funds, whether in the context of the mission or the recovery plan. We cannot stay at the level of 2020 because it is largely insufficient to meet our ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u74	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u75	The amounts referred to correspond well to new appropriations, taken from the "Relaunch Plan" mission. I can reassure you on this point: an additional EUR 50 million will be allocated to canteens and an additional EUR 80 million will be allocated to PATs. This expenditure is part of the €1.2 billion spent on agriculture in the €100 billion recovery plan. I will also make two comments in response to MP Jumel. First of all, you will have noticed that we wanted to keep schools open and, within them, school catering: this is very important, as you have shown perfectly during your speech. Then, as you know, we carried out all the necessary steps to compensate for the loss of revenue or the additional expenses incurred by the local authorities during the first period of confinement. I will not go into the details of the measures taken because this is not the purpose of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u76	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1706.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u77	This is a fallback amendment compared to the previous amendment, since it concerns a much smaller amount. The €330 million bonus we requested through Amendment No 1705 was calculated on the basis of an aid of €30 cents per meal. You said, minister, that the EGALIM law must be applied from end to end. However, we cannot post targets without giving the corresponding financial resources to the actors concerned. The Special Rapporteur referred to the amount of EUR 50 million allocated under the Recovery Plan to develop healthy and sustainable food in schools. This amount seems to me to be largely insufficient. Our colleague, Bénédicte Taurine, referred to the material needs of collective restaurants: to achieve the goals set for them, they will have to install vegetables and cutting workshops, or organise trainings on responsible purchases, new cooking methods, the work of vegetable proteins, the fight against waste and energy savings. All of this requires means consistent with the stated objectives, otherwise, as usual, it will be necessary to postpone the achievement. This need is all the more evident in the fact that, as Mr Jumel pointed out at the moment, we are experiencing a period of marked increase in poverty and insecurity in France. But everyone knows that the canteen is a place where the child can eat in a healthy and balanced way – for many, it is even sometimes the only balanced meal or even the only meal of the day. Unfortunately, this situation will worsen in the current context. We must therefore devote ambitious resources to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u80	Everyone here shares your concern, but you are asking for €10 million for an action that we are already planning to spend €15 million in 2021 and €35 million in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u81	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u82	The defined targeting seems relevant to me. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u84	You're asking two separate questions. The first is food aid in the current period. I do not go back to the fact, which I share in every respect, as I indicated to Mr Jumel. Food aid granted during confinement does not depend solely, far from it, on the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission. During the first confinement, as minister responsible for the city and housing, I had to issue food vouchers for the first time since the post-war period, in addition to support for food aid associations. I have not hesitated for a second to do so because, as far as food aid is concerned, there is not the beginning of a hesitation to have: we must devote all the necessary resources to it. With Olivier Véran and Emmanuelle Wargon, we still mentioned, a few days ago, the food aid to be deployed everywhere in France. We will take the necessary steps in this direction. The second issue is social justice in access to food. It must be recognised that injustice in this area is real and that school canteens are precisely a place where we can fight against it. That is why I have worked to ensure that, under the recovery plan, we spend EUR 50 million on canteens alone and EUR 80 million on territorial food projects, because that is how we can structurally increase the supply of fresh, local and quality products in the territories, particularly in collective restoration. I also add – we did not mention this – that EUR 30 million will be allocated, under the agricultural part of the recovery plan, to initiatives to support joint grocery stores or other comparable structures. These appropriations will be in addition to the action traditionally taken by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which has competence in this field. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In total, 160 million euros are dedicated to this issue under the recovery plan: I am more than sensitive and I am fully committed to this issue. Social inequalities with regard to food must be addressed every day, in particular through school canteens, which must offer more fresh, local and French products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u85	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u86	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u87	If I hear that we agree on the objectives, then the question of means remains. The Special Rapporteur mentioned the sum of EUR 15 million at the moment, while the Minister announced EUR 50 million for canteens alone. While these amounts are high, the Nature and Man Foundation, with which we have worked to draft our amendments, mentions a need of EUR 330 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u89	It's lobbying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u90	If we really feel that canteens and collective restoration are a strong lever to combat the food injustices you are talking about and if we really want to change the agricultural model, which everyone knows the importance of, then we need to invest much higher amounts than you expect. That is what we are proposing with this amendment. Finally, in response to your comment, Mr Special Rapporteur, the EUR 10 million we are asking for would of course come in addition to the EUR 15 million entered in the budget for 2021. If we do not invest more heavily in this area, we will never succeed in achieving our objectives – which are still insufficient in the current period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u91	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u92	In addition to this debate, I would like first of all to congratulate the Government for its action and to welcome the release of EUR 50 million for canteens. On the other hand, if we have talked a lot about the content of the plate, I would like to go back to a step that concerns the container – that is to say, the plate itself – and involves costs for the local authorities. I am referring to the ban on plastic in all school catering, from nursery to university, from 2025. We adopted this provision within the framework of the EGALIM Act by means of an amendment which I defended and which was supported by all groups, since it was adopted unanimously. At present, the communities and their delegates, who anticipate the coming into force of this measure, are waiting for support. I know that the crisis gives rise to other more urgent demands – first and foremost, the need to provide balanced meals and to guarantee social justice in access to food, as the minister rightly pointed out – but let us not forget this issue. The release of plastic involves, in some cases, important work in certain school kitchens and obviously requires an accompaniment in the field of public order in order to adopt the most healthy alternatives possible: this is a health issue for the younger generations. I would point out that we have adopted this amendment under the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u94	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u95	We have widely discussed the issues of public health and republican equality between children in access to school canteens. I believe that we share all these concerns and that there is no debate on this in our ranks. I will simply add an argument to convince you, if necessary, of the importance of this theme: multi-year contracts stabilized between public order providers and the agricultural world often form the basis for cooperation that extends to the actors of the HRD – out-of-home catering – private, such as grocery stores or restaurants. By promoting this type of contract, tools are being created and we are beginning to form a sector which is intended to extend to the world of private enterprise: the field of school catering is the laboratory of cooperations and a new field. I would also like, for the sake of clarity, to go back to the figures. There is much to bet that we will lose this budget arbitration, but at least I want us to have accurate information. As I understood it, at the end of last year's parliamentary debate, we decided to spend EUR 50 million on school canteens – I do not know whether it was a budget display or actual commitment authorisations, but that amount had been cut. This year, I am hearing again about EUR 50 million in the recovery plan, while the Special Rapporteur is talking about EUR 10 or 15 million, I have not understood correctly, entered as commitment authorisations in the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission. Can we at least be given clear figures? Finally, without wishing to mix everything, you mentioned, Minister, the unprecedented effort made in favour of the TAPs. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the amount to be spent on them will, in the end, be EUR 2.50 per French citizen, i.e. the price of a meal. Frankly, a few tens of millions of euros to install a public health sector and to make agroecology, it is a good investment and it is ultimately little money: we could multiply this amount to the level requested today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u96	I call Mr Michel Lauzzana, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u97	What we need is not necessarily important additional resources, but local will. By way of example, the Lot-et-Garonne department, where I was elected, created a chain of short circuits. Farmers provide quality products to the canteens that depend on the department on a daily basis. It is not true to say that this type of action necessarily involves large investments: above all, I insist on it, a will is needed – when we make the financial balance, spending and revenue often end up balancing, and a healthy diet does not cost more. The State must, of course, set a framework and provide resources when important work is to be done, but it is above all the local will that counts, especially since the local authorities are, as you know, very jealous of their prerogatives. They must be encouraged, and that is what the State does, but it does not necessarily involve a multiplication of resources. With the sustainable food collective created by Mounir Mahjoubi, we had to go to Lot-et-Garonne this week to learn from the experience of this department. Containment will not allow us, but I invite Mr Potier, as well as the other Members who would be interested, to join us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u98	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u99	We will inform you when we can make this trip – it's only part of the discount.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u101	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u102	I would like to make the clarification requested: the EUR 50 million I referred to refer to the commitment authorisations for canteens, adopted as part of the "Relaunch Plan" mission. There is no debate to have: these sums are not a substitute for the food aid we mentioned earlier, which is paid by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. This is an additional budget, which you adopted on the night of Monday to Tuesday by validating the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u103	It's the same amount as last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u104	No: these are additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u105	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1704.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u106	With this appeal amendment, we call on the Government to step up the budgetary effort to develop the TAPs. The latter constitute a possible territorial decline in actions aimed at bringing together producers, processors, distributors, local authorities and consumers and at developing agriculture in the territories or improving the quality of food. The EGA roadmap aimed to accelerate the deployment of TAPs in the territories by setting an ambitious target of 500 TAPs by 2020 – a target that has not been achieved, as this figure stood at 186 by October 2020. The recovery plan aims to create a PAT per department by 2022. We are very concerned that this target, no more than that of 2020, will not be achieved. As the PATs are struggling to grow because of the lack of funding, we call for an additional budget to be allocated to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u108	You propose to abound by €10 million the appropriations of the 206 programme for TAPs. Thank you. We have already answered on this point: the "Relaunch Plan" mission, and more precisely the sub-action "Accelerating the agro-ecological transition" of Action 05 "Agricultural Transition" of the 362 "Ecology" programme, foresees, for the year 2021 alone, 324 million euros in commitment authorisations and 125 million in payment appropriations. These funds will be used, among other things, to finance the development of TAPs. The minister, who has already responded on this point, will be able to complete my response, but the recovery plan satisfies your request. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u110	I have very little information to add: as I indicated earlier, we will devote 80 million euros of additional commitment authorisations to the TAPs as part of the appropriations of the "Relaunch Plan" mission adopted this week on the night of Monday to Tuesday. This means, I would like to repeat, that we have allocated 50 million for canteens, 80 million for PATs and 30 million for food solidarity, a total of 160 million which we must disburse in two years for territorial projects. This represents a lot of money and a lot of projects to implement. What matters to me is that these means are used effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u111	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u112	I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Minister, to come closer to your colleague in charge of fisheries in order to ensure that this sector, which has already been hit by Brexit, is not absent from the PATs. The closure of restaurants in my riding, in Dieppe or Tréport, leads to a lack of outlets for our fishermen in the middle of the shell season. The French eat thirty-four kilos of fish each year, of which 75% is imported. It is therefore necessary to help structure the short lines in this sector, which is not simple, I know for having been mayor of Dieppe for ten years. We need your ministry and, therefore, Annick Girardin's ministry to address this issue,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u113	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u114	...as part of the PATs, to help us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u115	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1457.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u116	This is an appeal amendment, as suggested by the amount of EUR 100,000 mentioned, in order to raise the issue of TAPs. Out of intellectual honesty, I welcome the fact that, for the first time, significant funds will be devoted to this mechanism. This is in response to a request we have been making for three years. We have led a cultural battle, we are now recording a small political victory. We look forward to it and thank you for it. I won't discuss the amounts. I am not necessarily a supporter of the "more and more" when the question of means is not central. I can hear the financial arguments that you are opposing regarding, for example, the PATs but not the canteens on the other hand. The question that I am asking you is more about the modalities. The multiplication of calls for projects, which began under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, which continued under the presidency of François Hollande and which expanded under the presidency of Emmanuel Macron...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u118	[[Mr Jean Lassalle and Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applaud]] ... produces a feeling of immense fatigue among elected officials, entrepreneurs and territorial agents. Responding to calls for projects mobilizes all their energy, until exhaustion, not to mention the fact that we are never sure that republican equality is respected. I would like – and that is the meaning of an amendment that we have defended, without success, in the context of the review of the EGALIM Act – for the TAPs to become almost an optional jurisdiction of the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u119	It has to be a voluntary move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u120	Yes, my colleague, communities must have the opportunity to use this mechanism as a public policy instrument. And as long as they do, they must benefit from public funds that are not subject to the arbitrary nature, if I may say so, of calls for projects: the PATs must become a competence accompanied by the State. Turning to the content of the PATs, I will share with you two experiences since I have no doubt of your goodwill in this matter. First, ATD Fourth World has a laboratory in my constituency that is reflecting on how to involve the most vulnerable, the most excluded, in the development of a TAP. For it is not the same to build such a project by relying on the population living in the periphery and to do so by relying on the bohemian bourgeoisie of the city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u121	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u122	Secondly, regarding the link with the territory and agroecology...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u124	Since the arguments have already been put forward, I shall be brief and merely give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u125	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u127	It is also unfavourable. With my teams, I'm trying to make sure that we go from the call for projects to the catalogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u129	For example, EUR 250 million is allocated for the financing of agro-equipment and the fight against climate hazards. However, depending on the different types of operation, it is sometimes the same material. When we manage to change logic, by submitting a catalogue on which everyone can check the type of material they need rather than proposing a framework within which to define a project, we will have taken a big step. The Ministry's two key words are "catalogue" and "territorialization". It is not necessarily possible to apply these methods in all cases, but we try to do so as often as possible. Unfortunately, this is more complicated in the case of TAPs: it is important to keep in mind that they have so far passed through plan contracts. On the other hand, it is possible to use it in the case of canteens because of the type of equipment they store. We have examined all the budget lines covered by the EUR 1.2 billion envelope provided for in the recovery plan and intended for agriculture by asking ourselves, for each of them, whether any use of the catalogue or territorialisation of measures is possible. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on committee benches as well]] I fully share, as I believe Members on all benches, the idea that there is a need to end the call for systematic projects. Too many calls for projects kill calls for projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u130	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u131	I thank you for this progress, which will constitute a small revolution in the field of public policy. At the crossroads of social concern, which I have mentioned through the example of ATD Fourth World, and the necessary development of agro-ecological production modes within the framework of the PATs, is the device of valuing mention. I therefore suggest you launch a research workshop around the reforms of the well-known French brand AB as well as the mention, also French, HVE, launched in 2011 and which now appears to be obsolete in view of its specifications. You have room for manoeuvre to carry them out when a reform of the European logo would be too complex. As a result of these reforms, for example, the carbon footprint could be part of the criteria for AB or HVE certification because this is not yet the case, which is scandalous – it is not a matter of bringing a case against those who imagined these labels at the time, but the carbon footprint has now become an indispensable criterion. Fair trade or social justice could also be added. Thus, the valuing statements, which would also appear on the products intended for canteens or PATs, would at last really defend the social and agro-ecological values that we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u132	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u133	First of all, Madam President, I would like to pay tribute to your calmness and your benevolence. I also thank the Minister for Agriculture and Food. What did I not hear when Mr. Denormandie was appointed to this position? Some wondered what he could do about it. Well, I have to confide in my astonishment: it's very good. He doesn't have much money, but he's trying to act. This is what inspires me from the words of our excellent colleague Dominique Potier, one of those among us who is most concerned about these complex problems. Before we come to the problem of canteens, we must be aware of the state of agriculture, or what is left of it. My brother, who is five years younger than me – he is still a little young – has not been able to do this for a long time. And again, he who has undergone four bypasses travels throughout France to sell his products. But he can't do it anymore. His daughter has just settled with her companion in the village where there are only two farmers, even though I had set up thirty, of course, forty years ago. However, because of the tons of emails she has to write, their installation project is not moving forward, it is at the same stage as three years ago so that she begins to wonder if they will hold up, especially since the friends who accompany them are also tired, blasphemed, they can no longer. It's terrible, but that's how it is. It's life. They're leaving.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u134	[[Smile]] We're going to have to crack down, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u135	We have said that facilitation measures should be provided, especially since they do not cost millions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u136	Mr. Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u137	I do not want to bother you, I will continue my remarks later because this is an important problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u138	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u139	It is based on article 89. In the course of these debates, I find that two amendments which I tabled with my group were declared inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution, whereas they are drafted exactly the same way as amendments tabled by other groups – these are appropriations that are being moved from one part of the programme to another. [[Applause on various benches]] I therefore ask – not necessarily immediately – for explanations. I demand that this rejection be justified. It is too easy to systematically reject amendments under Article 40, at the head of the client – because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u140	And according to the political color of the congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u141	That is serious, Mr Chassaigne, what you are saying against the services of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u142	The most incredible thing is that, in the amendments as they were referred back to me, there is only the summary statement left, as if it were me who was wrong to submit an incomplete amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u143	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups. – MM. Thierry Benoit, Bruno Fuchs and Jérôme Nury also applaud]] And we rely on article 40 to find them inadmissible! I have printed the amendments as they were tabled, as well as the ones I have received and all of them are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u145	Makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u146	Mr Chassaigne is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u147	Mr President Chassaigne, I will forward your request to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u148	I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 1747.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u149	This amendment by our colleague Guillaume Garot aims to create a real national communication and information strategy to combat food waste. This issue represents twenty-nine kilograms of food per year and per capita in France, but also amounts to billions of euros and millions of tonnes of carbon dioxide. This strategy, along the lines of the road safety strategy, would be based both on the dissemination of advertising campaigns, in order to alert consumers to the environmental, economic and social harm of food waste, and on the proliferation of food education activities throughout our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u151	You are proposing to increase the appropriations under programme 206 by EUR 4 million in order to combat food waste. Of course, we can only share the objective that you pursue. However, the measures provided for in the recovery plan, aimed at speeding up the ecological transition, already include the areas of work you are putting forward, in particular the fight against waste. More generally, the development of sustainable agriculture, which favours virtuous practices and favours short circuits, leads to less waste, as canteens, for example. Since funds are already provided for in the recovery plan, I would ask for the amendment to be withdrawn and would otherwise give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u152	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1559 and 1596, which can be discussed jointly. The Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor to support Amendment No. 1559.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u153	It aims to increase forest-related appropriations by EUR 300 million. I had the opportunity to work on a cross-cutting mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister, whose conclusions were delivered to you, Minister, and to your colleague Bérangère Abba, Secretary of State for Biodiversity, on 17 September. The purpose of the report was to make clear and formal recommendations to adapt our forests and the wood industry to climate change. If I propose this increase, it is because, even if we are pessimistic, we have so far succeeded only in consolidating the means necessary for the adaptation of the forest surfaces intended simply to ensure the maintenance of our forest capital. The problem of the Scolytes was thus raised by our colleague Meyer – I know that the Greater East region is particularly affected. If we refer to fairly optimistic forecasts, 140,000 hectares of Scolyte spruce will have to be treated by 2050. This gives you a little idea of the immensity of our task to preserve a forest heritage which, let us not forget, covers 30% of the national territory. Each of us lives less than 40 kilometres from a forest, even if he lives in a totally urban territory. In the first phase of our work, we have tried to quantify the recovery of affected stands that will be required for chalarose ash, which is at risk of disappearing almost 100%, the spruces that I have just spoken of, and the chestnut trees in the ocean. This represents 360,000 hectares, less than 45,000 times the Stade de France, which allows you to imagine what this operation corresponds to from the territorial point of view. To achieve this goal alone by 2050, €1.8 billion is needed. At the same time, it is proposed to develop planting in vulnerable stands. We have seen, for the past three years, especially in the Great East and in the Hauts-de-Frances, which have been particularly affected by the drought, with historical records of temperature, which are proliferated by bio-attackers who pose health risks to trees. To remedy this, over 30 years, it would be necessary to replace the equivalent of 650000 hectares of trees at an estimated total cost of 3.2 billion euros. Moreover, in order to maintain forest capital quantitatively, it would also be necessary, over thirty years, to provide for afforestation of land which has now become agricultural or even industrial wasteland at the level of 750 000 hectares. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The total of these operations would amount to EUR 8.8 billion, or EUR 300 million per year for 30 years. The amendment obviously proposes to adopt a cruising pace because we cannot ask the industry to be able to spend 300 million euros per year overnight. But, in any case, that is the objective that we should all set ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u154	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 1596.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u155	I really want to congratulate our colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot for the excellent work she has done, with the very broad support of the mayors of the forest communes. Members of the Republican Group also propose that action 26 of the 149 programme be abounded by EUR 300 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u157	First of all, I would like to congratulate your colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot on her report, which she submitted to me a few days ago, and above all for the dynamic she created around the wood industry, during the many consultations she conducted. The needs of the forest for reforestation are immense, as you pointed out, and let us not forget that a forest is also cultivated, which in this case requires accompaniment, including new plantations. As part of the recovery plan, for the first time in quite a long time, we have decided on a €200 million allocation for the forest, including €150 million for reforestation, €22 million for new forest management, I am thinking in particular of the new LIDAR technology, an airborne laser remote sensing that the foresters have long been asking for, and €28 million to abound a new fund dedicated to the downstream sector because it is absolutely necessary that the downstream sector pulls upstream instead of opposing it as it has been for years. First challenge already, and it is colossal: the EUR 150 million for reforestation must be consumed in the next two years, or fifty million trees to be planted. I would remind you that these appropriations were voted as part of the "Relaunch Plan" mission on the night of Monday to Tuesday. I cannot, of course, accept 300 million of the 149 programme to the detriment of the 215 programme. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment in order to avoid giving an unfavorable opinion, Madam Member, knowing that we fully share the same objective and that it is in that capacity that I consider it an appeal amendment aimed at stressing that this strategy must be integrated into a long-term perspective and not just an annual one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u158	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u159	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I confirm that this is a 30-year trajectory and that the target of EUR 300 million per year is the target – why not work on it in the next two years to think about the post recovery plan? But, Minister, you are right: 150 million euros put on the table for reforestation, it is new and a strong gesture for the industry. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u160	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u161	I asked for the floor before Mr Turquois, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u162	It is true that in the face of an agricultural amendment of 300 million, we are looking at it twice, especially when it comes to drawing up appropriations elsewhere. I have always been shocked by the importance of the Ministry of Agriculture's role in the forest – and even more so since the recovery plan – compared to that of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition: the Ministry of the Ecological Transition sets more and more objectives in the field of agriculture and forestry while, finally, their budgetary weight rests almost exclusively on the Ministry of Agriculture. The share devoted to forests in the appropriations managed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition should be greater: I am thinking in particular of the forest of Guyana, whose ecological stake is more important than the economic stake. I welcome the withdrawal of this amendment, the amounts of which I thought about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u163	Mr Chassaigne, I offer you the honour to close this debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u164	What about me? I also asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u165	I have read the report of our colleague Cattelot, who was kind enough to give it to me, and it is indeed very interesting. As far as the amendment in question is concerned, I am quite sensitive to the arguments of the Minister for Agriculture. I am, in fact, very dubious about the proposals aimed at removing the means for the animation of the forest sector because it is essential that the NFB agents intervene, with their long-term ethics, but also the CRPF – the regional centres of forest ownership – with private owners, as part of a public service mission, or the departmental or regional branches of agriculture and forestry. The forest needs animation, it's fundamental. I am very wary of these credit slippages, which can lead to the abolition of posts or the difficulty of organizations, as has been the case in the past – I am thinking in particular of the CRPFs. Attention must be paid to the fact that any action taken in this area requires explanations and public intervention, because sticking to a vision of restructuring, a vision of performance, a vision of profitability, means managing the forest in the short term and not in the long term!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u166	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1564.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u167	This amendment concerns the capping of the French share of the European auction proceeds on the carbon market, which averages around EUR 800 million each year. Today, the largest share, 500 million euros, goes of course to ANAH, the National Housing Agency, which the minister knows very well from his former governmental functions – and the capping of 350 million euros in the general budget. It would be a good idea for France to decide in the future to allocate the revenues of these auctions to objects specifically dedicated to the success of its national low carbon strategy, since the forest could be one of its financial receptacles. This proposal would in any case deserve to be considered in the context of a longer-term reflection, an approach that I am defending with you, Minister. I know that the EUR 300 million target cannot be achieved only through the budget lines of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u169	The amendment contains budgetary considerations which go far beyond this single task, since, as Mrs Cattelot said, carbon quotas, including before the capping, already financed the ANAH to a large extent in terms of energy renovation of buildings, while another part is now transferred to the general budget. As with its previous amendment, I consider it to be a very strong call to put our action on a long-term basis to finance the forest – and not just within the framework of the recovery plan. However, I stress that this plan is an objective first in this area: no such effort has ever been made to finance the forest. In the absence of a withdrawal, I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u170	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Madam Special Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u171	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u172	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1560.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u173	[[Smile]] I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, for leaving you a little bit more in this small forest tunnel. This is still an appeal amendment because I prefer not to undress Paul to dress Jacques in the agricultural budget. On the other hand, most of the measures we are advocating are in the regulatory field. We are proposing here to legislate the existence of a woodlot because we are stimulating forestry in order to make it more sustainable, it is also necessary that investments be made downstream of the forestlot, and to this end the best engine is timber construction. That is why a wood fund 3 would have to be set up from Bpifrance to the tune of EUR 100 million. This is a laudable objective, especially since Bpifrance's wood bottoms 1 and 2 have borne fruit since significant investments have been made in the wood industries. In addition, during the preparation of my report, I worked on the establishment of a call for expressions of interest to revive the CLT sector – cross-laminated wood – an initiative that I believe has been echoed within the Government. It is a much expected production in the building to achieve the target of 50% bio-sourced materials in new buildings, whether in urban areas or in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u175	Here too, Madam Special Rapporteur, you just type: a wood bottom 3 is a necessity. I say it with all the more conviction that I was among those who were at the initiative of the wood fund 2 since we launched it when Emmanuel Macron was Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u176	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u177	By way of comparison, I would like to point out that the wood bottom 1 was about 10 million euros and the wood bottom 2 was just under 30 million euros; As for the wood fund 3, once financed by loans from the recovery plan amounting to some EUR 30 million and by the funds raised by Bpifrance, it is expected to reach EUR 70 million to EUR 80 million. In total, we will not be far from the target of EUR 100 million proposed by this amendment. I therefore consider that he is almost satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u178	Madam Special Rapporteur, has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u179	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u180	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1561 and 1562, which can be presented together. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u181	I have already mentioned essential tools to help stimulate the wood industry so that tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, all new constructions in your territories will be made up of at least 50% bio-sourced materials, including wood. This was one of the objectives of the Housing, Planning and Digital Development Act, known as the ELAN Act. In this case, in order to consolidate and support companies in the wood industry, I propose two measures concerning sawmill companies. The first, described in Amendment No 1561, is a strengthening of State support for projects to use their co-products as fuels to produce energy by cogeneration. Their waste could be better recovered as biomass. This green energy could be resold or, above all, given the ratio of electricity tariff to cogeneration costs, be used internally for a subsidized cost price. The company would thus have electricity generated directly on site. Amendment No. 1562 aims at enabling the Government to create direct subsidies for investment in sawmills to modernise sawmill lines. Many sawmills have closed in recent years and the average age of managers is quite high; In order to facilitate the transmission of sawmills, tomorrow we need a modern and efficient production tool. It is therefore necessary to invest and, in addition to the recovery plan, nothing is worth a direct boost from the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u182	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u183	The fundamental question is whether sawmill products should be used for cogeneration of electricity or for cogeneration of heat. So far, the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE – has made calls for projects for cogeneration of electricity, but in the framework of the multi-annual energy programming – EPP – the emphasis has been on the need to develop cogeneration of heat. I will therefore be against the promotion of cogeneration of electricity, with priority given to the use of wood chips for heat generation. A long time ago, I had the task of installing a wood dryer in a sawmill, so I see the value of using wood chips to produce heat – one of the essential tools in a sawmill. In line with this public policy, I would like to encourage the production of heat and not electricity from wood chips. As the Special Rapporteur said, economic balance is more difficult to find; But it is a political choice that refers to the EPP and belongs to national representation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u184	I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u185	We cannot speak on an amendment that has just been withdrawn, Mr Lassalle. I have two identical amendments, Nos 1015 and 1378. Amendment No 1015 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 1378.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u186	The amendment by our colleague Fabrice Brun – we remain in the forest tunnel – aims, in a much more modest way than that of the Special Rapporteur, to abound by EUR 30 million the action "Sustainable forest management and development of the wood industry", to increase the resources of the strategic forest and wood fund. Indeed, the forest promotes biodiversity, protects the water resource and especially fixes and stores carbon. It would be appropriate to sanctify this increase in appropriations in order to encourage reforestation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u188	In the light of my previous remarks, the amendment seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u190	Same opinion: withdrawal if not rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u191	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u192	[[Smile]] I understand your difficulty in giving me the floor, Madam President, especially since my colleague and friend Thierry Benoit just told me: "Don't make it last because after we have the "Defence" mission and we have to go home! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u193	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u194	I understand it very well, except that we are moving very quickly: ten minutes ago, we were on agriculture; I wanted to say a word, but I didn't have time. We went to the forest and now I think we're coming to the waterfalls. [[Smile]] Minister, I support your business to plant 50 million trees; I planted $5 million in Cuzco, Peru; Of course, only 700000 or 800,000 have survived, but it's not bad already! Minister, your services should have a map that would allow us to know exactly where we are. On the one hand, I hear those who say we sell so much wood that there are no more forests. In our home, we haven't sold them for 20 years – no more than a cubic metre, no more a sterility – except to heat up, and we've always been replanted. What is lacking in us are loggers and sawers; They were equipped twenty years ago, when there was money, but they have nothing to do because they no longer have customers. This is the wood industry that has been implacably summarized. For once, I stand out from my friend Dédé le rouge: it is not so much the regional environmental directorates – DIREN – that have become the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates – DREAL – or even the NFB that needs to be strengthened, because for now they are in a phase of transformation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u195	Thank you, Mr Lassalle, you have exhausted your two minutes of speech and it is with great regret that I cut off the microphone. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u196	Amendment No 1561 by the Special Rapporteur, which she unfortunately withdrew, was in the same direction as the one just presented by Mr Nury. I call for caution: let's not play the sorcerer apprentices with the forest! A well-managed forest regenerates naturally and does not require trees to be planted there, unless it wants to create islets of experimentation or enrichment plantations, as the NFB does to address the great uncertainty created by climate change. It is not necessary to generalize the model that is developing in certain regions: to make shaved cuts and then to replant, unfortunately often in monoculture – 50% of our forests now have only one species. However, these young forests, or tree fields, with a single species, are much less resilient to climate change. On the other hand – this is reflected in your report, Mrs Cattelot – we must make sure that we devote aid to forests that are really dying and not as we do in the Morvan where 50% of the hardwood has been replaced by softwood on the pretext that the wood would not be suitable, when it is healthy forests. In short, I repeat: be careful not to play sorcerer apprentices in this field, it would be dramatic because drought and disease are aggravated by these methods of forestry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u197	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u198	Mr Lassalle, you are right to point out that some sawmills invested 20 years ago, without unfortunately reinvesting ever since. The minister will be able to come back to this problem, but my goal is to help the sawmills buy an edger, a barker – which costs about 200000 euro – or a grinder – at 80000 euro, which represents competitive gains. I hope that the State, thanks to the one-stop shop proposed by Agnès Pannier-Runacher for investment in small industrial SMEs, will be able to subsidise and assist these investments by at least 20%. Such an amount would create a leverage effect to drive the modernization and automation of sawmills. Mrs Panot, my commitment to forest renewal is complete. I agree with you that priority should be given to adapting our forests to climate change while avoiding economic deadlock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u199	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u200	When I studied agronomy and forestry, I was told: the forest progresses, but the wood retreats. Indeed, the downstream – the use – was declining, while the uphill continued to advance as the area of the forests has been spreading for a very long time. The challenges have increased. On the one hand, as Anne-Laure Cattelot pointed out, wood continued to decline, hence the urgent need to modernize the production apparatus. I also confirm that the Industry of the Future scheme will finance modernisation projects, including sawmills, and that the Wood Fund 3 will also be strengthened. On the other hand, the forest faces enormous challenges related to water, climate change and scolytes, which your colleague mentioned. That is the fact, which has been repeated many times. In the coming weeks, I intend to present the Department's forestry policy strategy. This strategy is now lacking, although much has been done on the basis of the Anne-Laure Cattelot report and the Assembly's work. Such a policy must obviously involve different institutes, including the NFB; downstream, it must go much further in the modernization of the production apparatus and, upstream, take care of the forest. We need to think about how to connect and reconcile upstream and downstream – a huge challenge – and how to respond to current water and sanitation issues. One example: as part of the recovery plan, we are going to finance the planting of 50 million new trees – I hope, Mr Lassalle, that we will achieve a ratio of surviving trees to trees planted a little higher than the one you mentioned... The real question is what tree species should be planted. This, too, is a huge challenge. In fact, it is necessary to plant species that are resistant to drought and health problems, but bearing in mind that this choice will define the use of the forest in fifty, sixty or seventy years. This is a real and beautiful democratic issue, which is part of sustainable land management. These are the elements that will make up the forest strategy that I will present in the coming weeks and which I believe is crucial. We now have all the necessary elements to implement it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u201	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1563 and 1597. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1563.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u202	The climate emergency leads us to act now for our forests, it is a certainty; It may have been necessary to do so several decades ago. The climate crisis has led to an acute crisis in our forests, causing uncertainty in the supply of the timber sector. That is why we must manage to combine the short time – cut and industrially treat the scoly wood – and the long time, which involves thinking about the replanting strategy, as the minister has just pointed out. It is action research that enables us today to mobilize researchers to reduce uncertainty and risk. The problem is that it is a natural resource that varies in response to climate change; researchers need to reduce this uncertainty in order for forest owners, whether public or private, to know what to plant for the medium to long term. It is thanks to scientific data that we will be able to do so; That is why my report stresses the need to increase our knowledge of the phenomena of the forest and therefore to double the means of research devoted to them. My appeal amendment proposes to allocate a little more than €8 million to research in order to support the internationally recognized research group in wood sciences, which brings together the CNRS, the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment – INRAE – and AgroParisTech, but also the national forest inventory within the National Institute for Geographic and Forest Information – IGN – and its laboratory, the academic work applied within the NFB, not to mention the National Forest Ownership Centre – CNPF – which also has a small unit working on the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u203	Amendment No 1597 by Mr Eric Woerth is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u204	I share the conviction that this aspect of research needs to be strengthened. As President Chassaigne has noted, this cannot be done by transferring between the two budgetary programmes, but the purpose of the amendment is to encourage us to give ourselves the means to answer the crucial question that I mentioned earlier: what are the essences that will have to structure our forests tomorrow? A forest is defined by its positive impact on the environment, by its tasks both in terms of carbon capture – it is essential and Mrs Panot rightly insisted on it – and in terms of spatial planning. On this point, let us not forget that forests are ecosystems in many territories that allow water retention and thus avoid tragedy. The forest also has an economic benefit for the nation. I am convinced, for example, that it is only possible today to build wood, which I pushed so much with some of you when I was Minister of Housing, uses raw materials from northern European forests. This is insane!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u206	We need to define today, including for the uphill part, the means to cope in France with the increase in wooden construction which I continue to call my wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u207	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u208	That is interesting, minister: we find ourselves on the facts and the big issues, as on the question of carbon, the question of water, but as soon as you begin to present solutions, I am no longer at all in agreement. You just said it yourself: the forest is a complex ecosystem. Do you know how long it takes to create a square inch of forest floor? A hundred years. Do you know what Hannibal T 50 is? She's the biggest shotgun in France, she's in the Morvan and weighs 50 tons. Can you imagine a forest floor ploughed by a 50-ton machine? There are, of course, consequences for soil and water. Soils are compacted and the carbon they contain is released – as you know, most of the carbon is not in the trees, but in the soil. The approach of hoping that such essence will be more or less resilient is totally wrong. However, we could have referred to historical examples: the National Forestry Fund promoted, for example, at some time, the idea of planting eucalyptus everywhere, before we realized that this tree was freezing and that it was particularly susceptible to fires. Finally, the most resilient forests to extreme events are the oldest and most diverse forests. Do not make the mistake of believing that we know everything and that the solution will come from absolute essence or from two absolute essences! This is what is happening in some places at the moment, when it may be necessary to enrich forests, but above all to make natural regeneration and avoid destroying soils and rivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u209	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u210	This will be my last speech, Madam President, because I feel that I am annoying you. I'm in danger of irritating myself too, and we'd end up giving a bad image to men and women who are at the worst – everyone's going wrong right now, but they're in particular. Minister, don't lose hope: I told you, 700000 of the trees I planted in Cuzco, the former capital of the Incas, survived – yet it was 2700 meters above sea level,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u211	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u212	...so it's not so bad! Madam Special Rapporteur, I asked myself: it was ten years ago, not twenty years ago, that the fifteen sawmills I was talking about invested massively, but the customers never showed up and the sawmills are now ruined. In addition, Crédit Agricole, which does not arrange anything at the moment in the country, has played as a "slam effect". In other words, today sawmills can no longer invest, the forest costs us a lot, the necessary tools are available, and men and women would be ready to start, but there is no one to accompany them. Minister, give instructions! It may be better for the prefects, for there is nothing to expect from the departmental directorates of the territories and the sea or the National Forestry Board, who have confused their idealism with their administration. I'm done and I'm leaving, Madam President. I don't want us to give a bad image, it's too serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u213	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 120 and 1016. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u214	It aims to finance a €5 million plan to combat invasive alien species such as spruce beetles, box pyrals, chestnut cynips. They can also sometimes be dangerous for the population, such as the Asian frelon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u215	Amendment No 1016 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u216	Funding for the control of invasive alien species is already included in the 206 "Safety and Health Quality of Food" programme. Services are mobilized and controls are multiple. The appropriations for Action 01 'Health, quality and plant protection', which had increased by 23% last year, are consolidated for 2021, amounting to EUR 36 million and not EUR 10 million as suggested by the summary statements of the amendments. Mrs Cattelot, in whom you have all recognized a specialist in wood and forest, tells me that €16 million is specifically devoted to combating these species. Therefore, in the absence of a withdrawal, I will be against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u218	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u219	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u220	It was intended to fight against the Scolytes, but in view of the arguments of the Special Rapporteur and the Minister, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u221	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u222	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 1652.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u223	The oak processionary caterpillar is a pest and pest of the same biological type as the pine processionary caterpillar, which causes just as much damage in French forests. The Greater East region is one of the most affected by this defoliating insect and several tens of thousands of euros are mobilized each year to combat its proliferation. Today, the NFB is replacing the so-called "diversified" trees affected by these insects, but our forests are losing value. As part of the fight against the ravages caused by the processional caterpillars, the amendment by Stéphane Viry aims to raise the appropriations for action 26 "Sustainable forest management and development of the wood sector" of programme 149 "Competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture, agri-food, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture" by EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u224	[[Mr Jean Lassalle left the Chamber, speaking at the foot of the rostrum]] I am leaving, Madam President, and I do not thank you. You have a lot to learn!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u225	It's unbearable! It would be worth a call to order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u226	Well, do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u227	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Lassalle, in the time you have, you have nothing else to say? If you could not put on the social networks that I enforce the rules, it would make me feel better: it's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u228	You say that when there are farmers dying. And the loggers will enjoy it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u229	We come back to Amendment No 1652, on which I am asking for the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u230	Unfavourable notice for the same reasons as before. Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot can give you some details.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u231	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u232	The processional caterpillar is a real plague. If the chairman of the Finance Committee, Éric Woerth, was on the bench, he would explain to you that, unfortunately, within thirty years, we risk seeing the forest of Chantilly, which is in his constituency, completely disappear, because of the processional caterpillars but also the Hanneton. These growing threats are confusing. We may be helped by solutions that nature will bring to us. The essence that proliferates in these forests could eventually save our oaks. The appropriations for 2021 that we have previously discussed with the Minister are intended to meet this challenge, either through research or through action on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u234	My arguments are identical. There must be a real awareness of this scourge. I am not sure that the latest forest health regulations have taken it sufficiently into account. I pledge that we will work on it. In the meantime, and in view of what has already been said by the Special Rapporteur, I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u235	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u236	The remark made by Jean Lassalle a few moments ago makes me react...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u237	What rule do you base your speech on, Mr. Benoit?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u238	Rule 58(1), Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u239	Dear colleague, it is not possible to refer to the first paragraph of Article 58 for...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u240	Take the article you want, I just want to support the way you preside over our debates because Jean Lassalle made you an observation that might lead us to believe that we would not have time to express ourselves. I was telling a colleague this morning that the best way for the French to take their part in the current crisis, in the face of terrorism or the virus, be it the economic crisis or the social crisis, is for everyone to assume their mission and their role, where they are. For our part, as parliamentarians, we must stick to our function of raising the difficulties on the ground, voting or not voting, participating in the examination of the various budgets, and monitoring the action of the Government. Our agenda is very busy, so it will be in the next few days. That's how life goes. I said earlier, in part, to Jean Lassalle that it was necessary to try to be concise in order to be able to vote today on the agricultural budget and then on the defence budget after having examined the text of the Joint Joint Committee on the use of neonicotinoids for the preservation of sugar beet. I would like to support you, Madam President, because you are organizing the debates in the best way possible. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LaREM groups]] I regret that Jean Lassalle is not here to hear what I have to say. It's not an attack on him, but at some point, you can't do and say everything and anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u241	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this expression of sympathy which I very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u242	Amendment No 1686 by Mr Gérard Cherpion is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u243	Unfavorable opinion. This time, it is a matter of indemnifying the owners of Scolyte trees. The state has already responded in 2019 by unlocking 16 million euros for the North and Morbihan. Scolyte trees must be cut, and we have already talked at length about the planting of more resistant trees and the diversification of the stand. The NFB plays its role in this area and I consider your amendment to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u244	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u245	This amendment by Fabrice Brun concerns the chestnut sector, so present in Ardèche but also in Normandy. The level of our production is far below our needs, forcing our country to import chestnuts from Portugal, Italy or Spain every year. It is that our chestnuts are currently decimated by ink disease and cynips. The amendment aims to abound €5 million in action 01 "Health, quality and protection of plants" of the 206 programme "Safety and health quality of food", in particular in order to strengthen research on the so-called ink disease, to develop a resistant rootstock adapted to the conditions of cultivation in the traditional zone, and to overcome the problem of cynips by strengthening the collective biological control. [["Congratulation! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, Minister, if you wish to continue savoring ardéchois frozen chestnuts in the coming months, it is absolutely necessary to help the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u247	We all agree: chestnut is important. The subject comes back every year and we will repeat what we say every year. The appropriations for Action 01 increased by 23% last year to tackle the kind of problem you are talking about. I don't want to add anything. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u248	I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 1689.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u249	Mr. Christophe Jerretie is the first signatory. The vast majority of French forests in metropolitan France are private. They belong to more than 3 million owners who are scattered without real ties between them. This fragmentation is detrimental to the development of the forest-wood sector, which must have a new economic model enabling it to improve its competitiveness. In this context, CNPF's missions – the National Forest Ownership Centre – are paramount. They involve developing and improving the management of private forests to make the mobilization of wood more dynamic in a sustainable and ecological manner. That is why we are proposing to increase the funding of the CNPF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that your political group, the MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats, has made a strong effort to ensure that private forests have the means to act. I hear your request for funding. The main thing remains that the CNPF's tax revenues – and consequently those of the regional forest ownership centres – have been stabilized and secured. For me, this is already a very strong first axis, because the centres have been severely weakened in previous years. On the other hand, I will introduce a much more humble amendment immediately thereafter, in which I simply ask that there be no deletion of FTEs within the CNPF, whose staff have worked hard to implement all the investments proposed by the minister. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn because I believe that the Minister's proposals are satisfactory with regard to investment. I'll let this one give us his point of view on human resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u253	In my turn, I welcome the work of your group and others on the issue of forest, particularly the private forest. Our strategy was to stabilize revenues from the CNPF and the CRPF this year so as not to see what has happened again in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u254	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u255	Budgets have indeed been stabilised by means of fees for chambers of agriculture. I will withdraw the amendment, but I would ask to pay particular attention to this fragmented forest, which is often the source of parcel abandonment in the middle of the forest, which is not without problems for the exploitation and even for the short-term future of the forest, as well as for the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u256	I wanted to speak on the amendment, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u257	We cannot speak on a withdrawn amendment, it is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u258	I've been asking for the floor a few times, too, without anyone giving it to me! Groups can no longer express themselves! It's the first one to raise his finger that has the right to speak! All this is very painful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u259	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1666.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u260	You can speak on this amendment, Mr Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u261	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u262	[[Mr. André Chassaigne protested]] Please, Mr Chassaigne, the rapporteur has the floor. But you have the right to be in bad faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u263	[[Laughs]] As long as he hasn't had lunch, he's like that, Dédé!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u264	We will soon arrive at the lunch break... As far as private forest agents are concerned, my request is that the deletion of 3 FTEs proposed in this PLF be waived. It is not 3 FTEs, 117000 euros, near, especially since the CNPF makes dynamic choices and recruits about 40 FTEs under contract. Here, for three FTEs, it's a little gift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u266	My mission is hard because I would love to make gifts, including before lunch. I will have a position in principle on this and other amendments from the rapporteur on FTEs. We have defined a job ceiling path. In recent times there has been a lot of debate on the issue of FTEs and the Government has a firm will, although some do not share it, to maintain a pattern of reduced employment at the general level of the State. The question raised in all the preparatory budgetary debates was: should we go further than was originally planned? I have obtained that we do not go any further and my position is therefore that we stand there, including with regard to the CNPF. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u267	As the amendment has been retained, I shall be able to give the floor to Mrs Mathilde Panot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u268	I will support this amendment by the Special Rapporteur because I believe that we need more than ever human resources for an ambitious forestry policy. I take this opportunity to support André Chassaigne's remarks. The speeches are of course at the discretion of the Presidency, and far from me the idea of calling it into question, but I think that we are talking about subjects on which it may be important to have from time to time more groups who speak, and not just two speeches. As far as fragmentation is concerned, I don't think it's a concern in itself. The question is who owns the forests. In some regions, 50 per cent or 80 per cent of private forests are owned by 2 to 3 per cent of owners. For this purpose, we have real means of action because the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, in particular, holds many forests; It's an easy intervention lever. The Fern association has published a report on climate change and climate shocks, which are forests, calling for the ageing of forests. The free evolution of forests can be recognized as a way of managing itself. In a strategy to maintain carbon stocks, 25 per cent of forests can be left in a state of flux, for example. Today, 20 per cent of forests are left open to change, especially when they are in very untapped places, such as in the mountains, where their presence helps to combat soil erosion, and where owners do not necessarily know that they have forests. They are very important biodiversity wells. We must therefore have at our disposal these human resources, those people who accompany the forestry policy with their expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u269	No one seems to want to speak... Mr Chassaigne, please, for what will actually be your second speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u270	It is necessary to manifest itself very quickly, otherwise it is always the same groups that express themselves. Animation is necessary. The CRPF does this animation work with private owners. I will cite only one example to show the height of the stakes. For a very long time I was mayor of a small commune of 2200 hectares in Puy-de-Dôme, in Auvergne: 50% of the territory was wooded. The average of the woodlots was one-half hectare. On average, an owner owned two hectares. That's morcellement. I saw for years the CRPF agents passing through the communes, looking at the cadastre for the census of the owners, who then had individual steps to move towards collective management in the field of exploitation and sale. The solution, above all, is the animation of the field and, to have it, it takes staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u271	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u272	Under the previous legislature, I was draftsman of the forest budget – which at the time was the subject of an opinion report – and I denounced the fact that, for years, the CNPF reserves, as they did with the chambers of agriculture and others, had been tapped to feed the state budget. After a while, we no longer have the animation on the ground that is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u273	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u274	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 1647.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u275	In order to support the forest-wood sector, it is necessary to develop and support the national wood market, in particular by allowing a reduction in transport prices in order to encourage transport to the less supplied departments of firewood or timber. The financing of a mechanism to support transport in order to deforest and reforest diseased forests is therefore appropriate. The aim of this amendment is therefore to raise Action 26 "Sustainable forest management and development of the wood sector" of Programme 149 by EUR 2 million from Action 02 "Health and animal protection" of Programme 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u277	Unfavorable opinion: the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u278	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 1651.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u279	This amendment concerns private forests. Every year, private owners make significant efforts to replant tree colonies, which strengthens our forests. Unfortunately, these plantations are often destroyed by wildlife. A study was carried out by many forest parcel owners. The latter must be trimmed for protection at least one metre to develop these shrubs and protect them from degradation. The aim of this amendment is therefore to finance the protection of tree crops, by raising EUR 1 million from the appropriations of Action 26 "Sustainable forest management and development of the wood sector" of Programme 149, taken from Action 03 "The means of the Regional Directorates for Food, Agriculture and Forestry, the Directorates for Food, Agriculture and Forestry and the Departmental Directorates for the Territories (and the Sea)" of Programme 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u281	You are right, it is important to maintain the balance between forest and game. When the density of game is too high compared to the necessary regeneration of our forests, we find ourselves with significant degradations of what has been planted. It is therefore essential that the €150 million government plan provides for the eligibility of protection expenditure against game.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u283	I confirm to you that within the 150 million euros are well planned the planting and its protection. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal; otherwise unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u284	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1565.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u285	It is about sacralizing investment in the genetic resource for forest renewal, i.e. seed orchards. Currently, there is a public seed orchard located at the Joux Drying House and managed by the NFB. But, in the absence of anticipation and dynamism, forest cooperatives themselves have recently defined a new seed orchard. For us to have the capacity to enrich our forests, or to regenerate them when unfortunately we have to cut them, we need seeds and plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u287	I call for the withdrawal of the amendment by committing myself to ensure that these seed orchards are financed under the recovery plan – up to EUR 300 000 – and that this is done quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u288	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u289	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1702.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u290	We're coming to the NFB. Minister, you did not answer the question in my opening speech: how do you believe that you intend to lead an ambitious and unprecedented forestry policy, without the human resources, expertise and know-how of NFB public officials? In this year's job plan, 95 FTEs will be removed again, after the PLFs for 2019 and 2020 planned to remove 175 FTEs. It was finally 335 FTEs that were eliminated, not to mention 196 assisted jobs. Since the NFB has lost almost one in every two officers since 1965, its agents have increasingly larger geographical areas under their responsibility. But they have an essential mission: to observe how forests and different species adapt to climate change. The NFB is developing islets of experimentation. In the 2000s, she carried out a colossal and indispensable work on the issue of dying. We need this expertise more than ever. How is it possible without the men and women who have this know-how?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u292	Madam Chair, the series of amendments from No. 1702 to No. 1665 are not subject to a joint discussion because the amounts proposed by each of them are different, but it is a block on the cancellation of the abolition of positions within the NFB. Do you intend to adjourn the sitting at the end of this amendment or in the series?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u293	We're hungry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u294	[[Smile]] President Chassaigne is hungry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u295	Good. I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment because of the amount proposed, EUR 250 million, which I do not think is appropriate. We can resume the discussion after lunch.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u297	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u298	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u299	So Mr. Minister doesn't have anything to say?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u300	It seems to me better to come back to the issue after lunch. We shall therefore speak in the voice of our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Member of Parliament for Allier, who is familiar with the forest of Tronçais.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u301	The most beautiful oak tree in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u302	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] But there is an urgent need to save the NFB. Its officials demonstrate exemplary ethics and defend long-term forest management, which is, it is true, telescoped with the current requirement of immediate profitability. This State body must be maintained and accompanied. The abolition of posts which have led, for years, to the replacement of civil servants by contractual agents is no longer acceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u303	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u304	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u305	Since the debate must continue after lunch, I will also come back to this issue at the beginning of the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Dumas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u307	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1050.u308	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Consideration of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the conditions for the placing on the market of certain plant protection products in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet; Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the appropriations of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission and the review of the appropriations of the "Defence" and "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" missions. The meeting is adjourned.
