ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I welcome the number of Members present at the sitting this morning: seventy-five Members can now meet in the Chamber, in proportion to the size of the groups. This number, taking into account ministers and officials, allows compliance with the decree which restricts to 100 people the gatherings in closed spaces throughout the territory of the Republic. On the other hand, we return to the usual number of questions, which are more favourable to opposition groups. Speaking times are the usual time: two minutes per question and as much by reply, reply and counter-replica, if any. The traditional order of appeal of the questions is restored. However, questions with the same theme will continue to be grouped together, each of which will be answered specifically. Health rules continue to apply: cleaning microphones during the session, with speakers being asked not to put their hands on microphones and to use different microphones; respect for distance between participants; staggered entrances and exits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u2	We begin with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, particularly on the topic of health. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u3	Minister of Solidarity and Health, I have a number of questions for you. Do you coordinate the acquisition and distribution of masks for all healthcare professionals? Many dentists have alerted me recently: their remaining mask stocks only cover the needs for a week, knowing that it takes about fifteen per practitioner per week. You have been asked a lot about other issues, such as taxi drivers, who frequently transport sick people, especially in rural areas. According to my department's taxi federation, they're doing their own thing, and coronavirus cases have been observed in these companies. Perhaps you can take a few more moments to answer the question that everyone is asking and that worries many parents: heart failure related to coronavirus has been reported in children. Do you have any information on this subject, which will arise in the future school year? Any information in that regard would be useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u5	With regard to masks, I commend the efforts of the dentists, with whom we have worked in a coordinated manner since the beginning of the crisis. They have agreed to reduce their activity or even close their offices, making their masks available to hospitals. Dentists need FFP2 masks. A destocking of 150,000 units will allow them to hold, by treating only emergencies, in some 400 firms in the national territory. We are working with them to establish the conditions that would allow them to recover, from 11 May, if not their normal activity, at least the most normal activity possible. The requirement for FFP2 masks is 800,000 per week. We look at whether we can provide them with that precise number. Again, let me thank them for the effort they have made. Their pension fund has offered to raise funds to help them during this period, which I am in favour of. Similarly, a discussion with health insurance is coming to an end in order to compensate for the loss of income of all liberal health professionals. The warning systems in Paris, English, Spanish or Italian show cases of heart or arterial inflammation. In France, since mid-April, about fifteen children have had a pathology similar to Kawasaki's disease, an inflammatory disease that can be triggered by viral or bacterial infections or even be a secondary reaction to them. Like any alert, we take this one very seriously, and this is the time of clinical and scientific research: all the paediatricians and re-facilitators in the euro area are working together to see if there is a need to establish a link with the Covid -19, which I still do not know at this time. Some of these children were tested positive at Covid-19; others were not. In any case, the situation is being seriously examined at the international level. I will communicate all the information as it reaches me. However, once again, at this stage, this is an alert and not a finding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u6	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u7	The crisis has major consequences for the lives of children and young people: serious educational breakdowns, food deficiencies, psychological disorders, with, in the background, an acceleration of inequalities. The few months that separate us from the fall of September are likely to further deteriorate the situation, and the large holidays, which many families are already not enjoying enough, will not play their usual beneficial role. This return, therefore, requires you to make strong and benevolent decisions. We ask you to give up any class closure for accounting reasons and to strengthen the educational support arrangements in primary school, with more teachers than classes, as well as in secondary school and high school, with an increase in teaching hours in order to take care of students in difficulty. The immediate replacement of each absent teacher will ensure real pedagogical continuity, and you will pay attention to smoothing the catch-up of the programs over time. In our view, these measures require an increase in the number of places open to competitions from this year onwards, an increase in the number of staff who have been in the profession for more than two years and an increase in the number of programmes, in consultation with the teachers. We then ask you to upgrade social funds for college students, high school students and students to deal with precarious situations, which will multiply. Similarly, an abundance of state funding for awareness-raising and discovery activities must be examined. Finally, without being complete, we urge you to quickly and proactively correct the place of school medicine, which is unfortunately the great absence in the life of schools. According to Communist MEPs, the budget for the new year 2020 must be increased. Will that be the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u8	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u9	I fully agree with the premise of your reasoning: inequalities may indeed get worse, as we have noted from the very beginning of confinement. A general mobilization of national education, alongside all actors in society, aims to avoid as much as possible this risk of widening inequalities. Yes, the psychological, physical, food and other damage you mentioned does exist. We must work to reduce or even eliminate them. This is what deconfining is all about, as we envisage it, since it will solve these problems, for example by fighting against dropping out. I come to the heart of your question: how can we prepare for the new year by taking into account these problems of inequality? You are absolutely right: in view of the situation, we must adopt a vision of exception. We will keep this principle in mind by preparing for the September re-entry, in a spirit of partnership and discussion with all actors. We have already begun to move in this direction, as you know: we have taken a unique step in the annals of national education by creating, in the course of the calendar year, just three weeks ago, with the agreement of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, new positions in the first degree. To the more than 400 positions we had already created in the first degree – while there were 50,000 fewer students – we have added more than 1200 posts to take into account the current situation and to finance the measures we have indicated: no closure of classes in rural communes without the mayor's consent; improvement of the supervision rate in all primary schools in all the communes of France, again, in relation to the mayor, who will be able to verify that this commitment will be fulfilled. This is unprecedented in the annals of national education, and it will ensure, as you advocate, a more personalized framework, especially for school support. This is my commitment to address possible crisis-related delays.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u10	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u11	Prime Minister, every night, the Director General of Health takes a sad look at the victims of coronavirus in France. However, every night, there are statistics that are not mentioned: deaths at home and deaths of caregivers. The officially announced figures only account for deaths recorded in hospital and partly in medical and social institutions. However, INSEE tells us that mortality has increased tragically, by almost 10% in March, and that the number of deaths at home would be considerable: according to a survey conducted by a general practitioner's union, it could reach 9,000. In other words, the number of officially listed deaths would be underestimated by 38 per cent. Questions also remain about the deaths of caregivers. Doctors, nurses, health workers and other hospital workers who have lost their lives pass under the radars of this tragedy. Yet, as everyone knows, they fell for France. This fatal count is not intended to fuel anxiety by morbid statistics. But because we are experiencing an unprecedented national tragedy, the tragedy must be known and its magnitude measured in all aspects of its reality. It is about the transparency that we owe to our fellow citizens, but also about the recognition that the families of the victims deserve. This seems to me to be an essential principle of humanity. After the pandemic, the applause will be silent. The nation will have to engrave in the marble the names of its children who have lost their lives. The President of the Republic has declared that we are at war. In a war, however, nothing is more important than to estimate the reality of the loss of life and to report it to the nation. No soldier, no civilian who loses his life in an armed conflict, must disappear in the oblivion of history. Prime Minister, how many have died, among the first lines of health care workers, to whom we will never say our gratitude enough? And how many anonymous French people died at home?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u12	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u13	Mr Saulignac, since the beginning of the crisis, we have shown the greatest transparency with regard to the number of dead victims of the Covid-19. In fact, we are the only country to publish the number of hospital deaths, but also the number of deaths recorded in EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people. Look at the international classifications: no other European country accounts for the number of deaths in these establishments. You're also asking me about the number of people who died in their homes. It is more difficult to establish. Why? Some 77% of death certificates are electronic. Some of them specify the cause of death, such as the Covid-19, and the place of death. Public Health France is responsible for collecting these data, compiling estimates and bringing them back to us. France will have a balance sheet in June, as will all countries in a position to draw up a count of deaths at home. The problem is not to hide something, which would be useless, but to process all death certificates, whether electronic or not, and to compile meaningful statistics by territory. Be aware that we have received a first alert from Public Health France about a possible overmortality at home, which would not necessarily be related to Covid -19, but perhaps to the medical complications of people who did not go to the hospital. I would like to remind you all the time: it is essential that people with chronic diseases and who are to be treated go and consult. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Finally, you're asking me about the caregivers who died in combat. You're right, this is a national drama. Everyone's identity cannot be known, because of medical secrecy, but I guarantee you that we pay attention to every human situation, as well as that of families. The nation, I believe, will have to recognize them in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u14	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u15	This question by my colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The strategy presented yesterday by the Prime Minister seems pragmatic and coherent; It is based on a territorialised analysis of the evolution and circulation of the virus. While we agree with this geographical approach, it leaves some practical issues open, including the use of digital health data, DNS. How will the colour, red or green, which will identify the situation in each department, be determined? How will the collection and centralization of territorial data on the circulation of the virus be carried out? This work will have to be based on individual data, mainly statistics collected by health professionals and health insurance personnel forming departmental brigades, but also on aggregated collective data, which should enable us to better know and monitor the epidemic. This crisis must be an opportunity to rely heavily on the wealth of information that digital health data constitute. How will the recently created Health Data Hub be mobilized? Do you intend to generalize to the entire French territory the Covidom established by the Paris Public Hospital Assistance? Will the interoperability of hospital information systems allow it and will you support the CovidIA application, designed to monitor the development of the common epidemic by municipality? We were far behind in the prevention and use of health data. In short, will this crisis allow us to speed up the implementation of our digital health strategy? [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The issue is all the more important for the most affected departments; I have a particular thought for the departments of the Rhône and Bas-Rhin, where Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and I are elected, and whose inhabitants are deeply affected, bruised by the virus, but also solidarity and courage, the look towards the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u17	I take the side of responding to you by example. Suppose, on May 12, I have fever and difficulty breathing. I will alert a doctor directly by telephone, by videoconsultation, by going to see him or by calling 15. Noting that I have symptoms evocative of Covid -19, he will prescribe me a test, which I will perform at the drive installed in the parking lot of a laboratory or in a laboratory; If I can't move around, someone will come to my house to do the sampling. At this stage, the formidable digital challenge will begin: everything must be traceable – the place where I am taken, my place of residence and my identity, which must then be anonymized – and that this information be recorded in a database. If the test on my sample, carried out in the laboratory, on a PCR platform – chain polymerisation reaction – is positive, this result must be indicated in the information system, which will immediately bring the information back to the dedicated cell, controlled by the health insurance, in connection with the regional health agencies. They will then be able to contact me to inform me of the result, to check whether I need care and to determine which ones, but also to investigate one of the famous brigades mentioned yesterday by the Prime Minister, who will ensure that all the people I have been in contact with, potentially ill, can be contacted, and so on. The work of the information system, which began several weeks ago, in connection with Cédric O, must make it possible to achieve a formidable feat: to establish a single information system, bringing together data from laboratories, hospitals and drives, enabling patients to trace and isolate effectively on the territories. In addition, I am delighted with some of the digital innovations that we need at this time, such as AlloCovid, to use artificial intelligence to detect early symptoms of the disease. We salute the strength and ingenuity of our engineers, researchers and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u18	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u19	Prime Minister, the French will judge you on the operational implementation of your plan, presented here yesterday. Without masks and testing in sufficient quantities, deconfination will be partial, slow and uncertain. Defining under protection is the only way to control the second wave and free our economy. As early as Sunday, the Republicans presented a clear, territorialized and protected de-defining plan, with fifty concrete proposals. We learned yesterday that you have accepted our proposal for de-confining by department. If this land-based approach is essential, unfortunately you do not follow it to the end. As soon as you adopt a departmental logic, why refuse to reopen the cafes and restaurants in the departments not affected by the epidemic on 11 May? Furthermore, how will you apply and control the traffic ban beyond 100 kilometres, knowing that the same number of people do not cross depending on whether you make this distance in Lozère or Île-de-France? Let's go to the protections. Hospitals and health facilities lack overblouses and medicines. When and how are you going to rebuild these stock of equipment? We understand that your goal is to perform 700000 tests a week, but you continue to pretend that you only have to test when symptomatic cases occur. When you know that 50% of the cases are asymptomatic and that they are responsible for 44% of the contagions, you can wonder about this strategy: you take the risk of missing nearly three quarters of the emerging clusters and always having a delay on the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Will you be able to test by PCR, from 11 May, all so-called "mandatory confined" people, i.e. residents of EHPAD, psychiatric institutions, institutions for disabled people or prisons, in order to curb transmission channels?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u20	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u21	Mr President Abad, if I am not sure I can answer all your questions, I would like to go back to the last one concerning the tests. As I said yesterday, and it is important to understand this well, our national testing strategy, which actually provides for 700000 tests a week, must allow us to systematically test anyone with symptoms. If the test result is positive, exactly as the Minister of Solidarity and Health has just indicated, we will go up the chain of those who have come into close contact with the patient, to test them, whether they are symptomatic or not. So we will test, in truth, many asymptomatic people. For each new case, we consider that it will be necessary to test twenty or twenty-five people, or even, in order to give themselves a margin of safety, up to thirty people on average. If we multiply the average of 3000 new positive daily cases by twenty-five and then by seven, that gives 525,000 weekly tests – you can check my calculation. This leaves room for a specific testing policy for the most vulnerable audiences, particularly in the EHPADs, which will be implemented within the framework of a national doctrine. Your question gives me the opportunity to explain: to choose, to reassure or to search for a display effect, to leave the doctrine of tests and to test systematically, for example, each of the 1000 employees of a company at the end of the confinement, would really have no interest from the health point of view. This kind of choice, by multiplying tests to infinity, would make it impossible to follow the national testing policy, which has a logic: it alone allows the transmission chains to be broken. We have the capacity to carry out the tests set out in the national strategy – even a little more, fortunately, to carry out specific policies for certain audiences. But I insist: if we come out of this doctrine and let each one do what he wants, it won't work, everyone can understand it. Together, in a rather disciplined manner, we must follow the clear national doctrine, which will be implemented by brigades and a range of actors, including health insurance and RHAs – the regional health agencies. The communes and departments may join forces, if they wish – we will not force anyone – with these brigades, whose objective will be to climb the transmission lines to break them; That's how we control an epidemic. You have also asked me about the logic of differentiation, to which you have expressed your support, which I welcome, and which we are applying. In this context, you said, you would have liked the opening of restaurants and cafes to be appreciated department by department, perhaps by the prefect or the mayor. However, we decided that the reopening of cafes and restaurants throughout the national territory would be decided on 31 May, before a possible entry into force on 2 June. We are therefore referring the matter back to the next stage, because we want to check that the measures applied at the beginning of the deconfination, from 11 May onwards, will make it possible to properly control the circulation of the virus. It's a cautious approach. [[Rires on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Yesterday, in a very remarkable speech, you recalled that "governing is deciding" – before the fact that the majority of your group prefers to abstain... Well, I've decided: things will happen this way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u22	That's not pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u23	It's a shame because without it, it was a good answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u24	Hunt the natural, it returns to the gallop...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u25	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u26	Prime Minister, you have yesterday, in front of the national representation, developed the deconfination measures which the Government is planning to implement from 11 May. This plan represents a new step in the management of the health crisis that has hit France and the whole world for several months, and has led the authorities to ask the French to confide since 17 March. The principle of decoupling is not under discussion. You have to "dislodge in order not to collapse", in your own terms, economically and socially. You stressed the progressive nature of the deconfining strategy and its adaptation to different health realities from one department to another, in a word, on its territorialization. I regret, together with my colleagues in the IDU Group, that you do not agree with this logic by introducing a strategy of real territorialisation and co-constructing with local and regional authorities, which is at the forefront of crisis management. For, if the health situation of New Aquitaine is not that of the Great East, if the relevant measures are different to the Sables-d'Olonne and Bobigny, how can we understand that the beaches remain prohibited from any activity when the mediatheques will be able to reopen everywhere in France? How can we understand that the reopening will involve kindergartens and elementary schools as early as 11 May, certainly on a voluntary basis, throughout the national territory, but not the colleges and high schools of the territories little or no affected by the Covid-19? To avoid a failure of deconfinity, we need the confidence of the French: confidence in the credibility of the government word, confidence in the coherence of the announced plan, confidence in the effectiveness of the announced measures. However, it is still lacking to date. Can you reassure the French and inform us about the consistency of your deconfinement plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u27	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u28	Mr Brindeau, you speak of trust: indeed, it is a major issue; The French must be able to trust, and this refers to the question of state support for caregivers, communities, businesses and more generally the French. Yesterday, the Prime Minister had the opportunity to present the outline of the plan for the phase-out of confinement from 11 May and for the next three weeks. This assembly, which had to vote, gave him confidence to a large majority. If I do not claim that this is enough to remove all the questions, we have several days to respond point by point to the difficulties that may be encountered, here and there. This plan is now subject to consultation with local and regional authorities, including the so-called "prefect-mary binome", the social partners and user associations. This very broad consultation goes through the country; the progressive lifting of confinement is a struggle of the entire nation. Rights have been conferred on the territories: their communities will be able, on the basis of indicators that we make available to them and to the prefects, to determine whether it is necessary to go a little faster or a little slower or even to go back. This flexibility was granted in response to the renewed demand from communities and prefectures. During stage 2 of the epidemic, we followed the same logic: prefects or mayors were able to take territorial measures, including the introduction of curfews or the prohibition of day-to-day activities in municipalities, such as markets. The plan, after being presented to and adopted by the National Assembly, is now the subject of consultation with elected officials, prefects and all State actors; Once it has been finalized, it will be able to live in the territories, as they pass or will be maintained, as I hope, in the green zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u29	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u30	I am relaying several questions and concerns from the entire educational community, plunged into disarray after so much confusion and conflicting injunctions. Thus, against the recommendations of the Scientific Council, the re-entry will take place on 11 May 2020, starting with the youngest students: those in kindergarten and primary school, who will struggle to respect the barrier gestures; Also those who can't keep themselves alone. I dare not imagine that this decision is motivated by the resumption of economic activity. Then why go back to school? To do what, some wonder, while there will be only a little more than a month of school? And if it is for real concern not to widen the inequalities, albeit exacerbated by this crisis, then why are we programmed the abolition of classes and the reduction of endowments for the re-entry, until Seine-Saint-Denis, the most disadvantaged department, instead of muscled settlements in human means? We must also explain why we decided to volunteer, which leaves the parents in front of a corneal choice, terribly anxious in addition to being unequal, because not everyone is on equal terms when it comes to choosing whether or not to take their child to school. And besides, isn't this volunteerism the admission of uncertainty about the effectiveness of health recommendations, whose terms you have just defined?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u31	Yes, there's the Covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u32	What then to answer to the teachers? Will they also be willing, or will they suffer the double penalty of having to take on both face-to-face and remote work? In case of tragedy, what will be the responsibility of mayors, heads of institutions, directors and even teachers? Could she be hired? Some mayors have already announced that they will not open schools. A large part of the educational community is calling for the return to school in September, as in our Italian neighbours, especially since new studies are worrying about the risk of serious cases in children. Mr Minister for National Education and Youth, are you prepared to reconsider this plan by taking into account the words of those concerned and on whom, now, you know how to count?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u33	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u34	Thank you for your last sentence, which is very accurate and is the basis of my answer. In other words, we must have a national unity, a total unity within national education, in order to go through the various stages planned, with the containment plan in mind, then the deconfining plan, the summer holidays and the preparation of the September re-entry, in a common benevolent vision. When it comes to job creation, I refute what you claim: we create posts in Seine-Saint-Denis, as well as additional posts in the context of new creations. In each municipality of Seine-Saint-Denis, the rate of supervision will be better than that of the previous year. In this regard, you can be reassured. Our inspiration is first and foremost social. The strongest example is, of course, the CPs and EC1s of REP – the priority education network – and REP+ – the enhanced priority education network – where students are already twelve. These classes thus meet the health conditions set: they are groups of less than fifteen pupils, who will be among the first to return. I am very pleased because our priority is primary school; It's been very clear for three years, and it's always more clear. In a period like the one we are experiencing, the risks of dropping out and "unlearning" are very high, and we are committed to this priority. All measures are as follows: based on a social concern. Regarding volunteering, both adults and students, I invite you, as on all subjects, to reason a contrario: are you ready to support the opposite thesis and to defend it? In other words, do you want us to go and get the students at home and force the parents to accompany them? Of course you would protest if we said that. Education is compulsory in France, there is no doubt on this point. What the President of the Republic said, which corresponds exactly to what I had said before the National Assembly a few days earlier, is the only possible answer: education is compulsory, and parents send their children to school or not; If they do not send them, the teaching will take place at a distance. That is how we will recover the few remaining dropouts, to which we will be particularly attentive; We will take action to encourage them to come. Our motivation is deeply social; It is also committed to national unity and I hope that you will also follow this aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u35	Mr François de Rugy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u36	Prime Minister, you presented yesterday to us the accompanying measures for the deconfinement. If we can talk today about deconfinity, it is that containment has been effective. The pattern of contamination has reversed, the peak of the epidemic is clearly behind us. This result, we owe it to the civicism and responsibility of the French. We must pay tribute to this effort by the French, which is hard for many of our compatriots, as we know. We must pay tribute to those who have never stopped working in this period, so that the vital functions of the country can be ensured. We must also salute those who have already started working again or are going to do so before 11 May, because the conditions of health security are in place. Without waiting until 11 May, you have therefore presented these measures. You have had a sentence that summarizes everything: "A little too careless and it is the epidemic that starts again; A little too cautious and it is the whole country that is sinking. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Among the ways you opened up yesterday, there is the consideration of territorial differences, differences in situation. I am well placed to talk about it, being elected from the region of Pays de la Loire, which is less affected than others, like the western part of France in general – it is a chance for us. You talked about a ranking between "red" and "green" departments. Can you tell us what will be the concrete consequences, in green departments, for businesses, for schools – schools, colleges, high schools – for the opening of parks and gardens, perhaps even beaches? How do you intend to involve local elected officials in these different measures, depending on the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u38	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u39	I associate myself with what you mentioned at the beginning of your question. Indeed, confinement, for many of our fellow citizens, was an ordeal, an effort, in the sense that they had to deprive themselves, through civicism, of visits that they loved to make and of a way of life to which they were attached. For many of them, it was not simply a renunciation of things that could be postponed, but a real pressure, with probably a cost – I am not talking about an economic cost here, but a human and social cost. You're asking the question of territorialization. First of all, let me recall the logic of distinction between the green and red departments. How are we going to classify a department in green or red? On the basis of indicators, which will obviously be public, updated every day, and which correspond to three logics. The first indicator will be the rate of new cases in the population, i.e. the speed of circulation and the emergence of new cases. The second indicator will be the level of preparedness of the hospital system. The first wave struck and hospital capacity in resuscitation and intensive care beds was increased everywhere. The use of these beds has been massive, far beyond normal occupancy capacities. In this case, we adopt a regional approach, because we know that within a region, hospital capacities are often, not mutualised, but shared: it is common for a severe case to be transferred to a CHU – university hospital centre – from a neighbouring department, whose barge zone, if I may say so, is regional. In short, this indicator concerns the availability of the hospital system, its ability to recover from the first wave. The third indicator will be the ability of the brigades, which I referred to earlier in response to President Abad, to make transmission chains appear effectively. These three main indicators will allow us to know, department by department, whether the virus is circulating much or little, and whether we are able to circumscribe its evolution. What will be the different regimes that attach to the classification in green or red? A majority of obligations will be common to all departments: all measures of social—or rather physical—distancing and precaution, as I have indicated and repeated. It goes without saying, but it goes better by saying it. All methods of organizing test brigades and raising contacts will of course be of the same nature everywhere in France. Prohibitions will also prevail throughout France: the non-opening of cafes and restaurants, at least until 2 June 2020. Similarly, the non-opening of the very large shopping malls will remain valid throughout France. Indeed, these centres, whose barge zone extends far beyond the basin of life, create brewing: people come from far away and leave. Such a brewing is precisely what we want to fight against in the control phase of the epidemic. With regard to other subjects, one can obviously differentiate the application. This will be the case with regard to the pace of opening schools, particularly colleges. We will take into account, in this respect, the appreciation of the prefectural authorities, the administration of the national education of the department and the mayors, it is very important to understand it. In a green department, the opening of primary schools will be possible; Of course, it will happen a little differently in some places. The mayor should be given the opportunity to tell those responsible for national education that things should not be the same as the Anatole France school and the Jean Moulin school, because the premises, the way they organize themselves, the number of students enrolled, make it easier here than there a perfect organization. All this, neither I nor the Minister of National Education are in a position to determine it; Those who are able to do so are often the principal of the school, the mayor and the local representative of national education, and I fully trust these three actors to make the right decisions. There will therefore be differentiations, including sometimes within a municipality; After all, we can accept it, the important thing being that everyone gets back on their way to school. When a mayor of a red zone informs us that his commune, because of the explosion of the number of cases, is not yet ready, we will discuss with him. We will understand the specificity of the local situation, to try to find the right pace of opening schools. In the red departments, not all municipalities are affected in the same way. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] Basically, I want to explain here that the chosen logic commands effects and commands the spirit of partnership between local elected officials and actors on the ground. This spirit is more important to understand than the rule, you see, because that is what will allow us to finely and effectively control the circulation of the virus. There will therefore be green departments and red departments, but everywhere there will be an intense, precise, confident discussion to the extent possible, to take the right steps. I am sure that, in the face of the epidemic risk, local actors will be able to adapt the measures as closely as possible to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u40	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u41	Minister of National Education and Youth, while our country is confined for the first time in its history, the French, whose daily lives are upset, have suffered from erratic and contradictory government communication. This was the case with the question of masks and the question of screening tests; This is now the case for the school question, which is central to the resumption of our country. The school is an institution that is the pride of our Republic, but its functioning is deeply undermined. The French are concerned about the conditions for returning to school; Two thirds of them refuse to return their children to school, and confusion has spread among teachers. The Republicans proposed, following the German example, the testing of the whole teaching staff and the daily temperature-taking of each student, in order to allow a resumption of the courses in the best conditions. Your government has made the surprising choice to rule out this hypothesis. Instead, you propose a return on a voluntary basis, limiting the number of students to 15 per class, which reinforces the organizational problem. How are you going to choose these fifteen students? According to what criteria? How are you going to avoid the massive stalling of an entire generation? Nor have you said anything about the material assistance that will be provided to the municipalities, in particular the provision of protective equipment, the organisation of school catering or school transport. All these points need to be clarified urgently: there are less than 15 days left and our mayors need to know how to reopen their schools safely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u43	How can we also explain that high school students are the last to take up the courses, whereas those in the first classes must take the French test of the baccalaureate in presentation and that they do not have any exam dates at the moment? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Are you going to propose a clear, operational, protective course resumption plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u44	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u45	Mrs Bazin-Malgras, your approach to drawing up a plan for decoupling was constructive; I looked at him...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u47	...and some of its elements, I think, deserve to be retained. You have spoken of confusion, but it can be maintained when the opposition does not show good faith. Yesterday, President Abad, you spoke about compulsory education, and I will give you the same answer as Mrs Rubin at the moment: are you in favour of forcing a family to send its children to school in the name of this obligation? The journalist asked you how you would do it, and you told him you would reassure the families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u48	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u49	So you don't have a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u51	Test the teachers! Use masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u52	Each of us must go to the end of his reasoning: pretend that you were able to one day be in a position of responsibility; That is how you will put forward useful proposals, as your plan certainly contains. Nevertheless, in the immediate future, I invite you to reason by examining the measures of the Government. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Together with the Prime Minister, we discussed the health protocol with the elected associations this morning, before the questions to the Government. We've been working on it for weeks, and it'll be aired to field actors by the end of the week. You use the word "confusion" to maintain it, but the work is done and will see more and more. It is quite normal to proceed in stages. I have spoken for exactly two and a half hours before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education to put forward hypotheses and collect your proposals, so that the Prime Minister will incorporate them into his plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u53	You've been disjudged!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u54	We are now going into detail to implement it in a concrete and pragmatic way. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] There are three executives. The first, very clear, is sanitary: we developed it with Bureau Veritas, and it is now the benchmark for everyone. Secondly, there is the reception framework, which the Prime Minister has just presented and which I have detailed this morning on the radio, which offers flexibility to local actors. The third framework, pedagogic, will also offer flexibility in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u55	You're not answering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u56	No one's going to school!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u57	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u58	Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, one of your tweets, published on April 5th, marked the minds, as you announced the suspension of restructuring plans in hospitals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u60	... by referring them to the great consultation that will follow the current crisis. Hope was also there at the beginning of the crisis, when the President of the Republic had declared "health has no price" and he wanted to deploy a massive investment plan for the hospital, promising to all that the next day would not be a return to the day before. On the ground, the feeling differs: the first lights of the day after look furiously like those of the day before. While caregivers are throwing all their forces to fight the Covid-19, the Douai Hospital, the Vinatier Hospital in Lyon and many other institutions, the development of future contracts for returning to financial balance and the closures of beds or services are continuing, under the guise of better pooling of forces in times of crisis. Continuing to do so, as if nothing were going to happen, especially in times of health crisis, is unacceptable and constitutes a real insult to healthcare teams. The battles, the struggles carried out by hospital staff for many months are still ongoing. The anger of the caregivers has not disappeared, it is just obscured by the fight they are currently fighting against this disease. Of course, you are suspending the plans for a return to financial balance, but the words have a meaning: the Communist Group asks you to go further and cancel them, in order to immediately give these structures room for budgetary manoeuvre. In your previous interventions, you mentioned answers to the requests while recalling the different plans of your predecessor; You want to continue the consultations to build tomorrow's hospital. [[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] The current period is marked by solidarity and resourcefulness, which is mainly based on external assistance. After the crisis, it will be more than urgent to realize the action of the State with human and financial resources for the hospital. Although the state has recovered EUR 10 billion from hospital debt, there are still EUR 20 billion left: we are calling for a total recovery of the debt, which would in fact cancel the restructuring plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u61	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u62	Caregivers in hospitals have not been content with being resourceful and seeking outside help: they have shown genius, yes, genius, I sincerely think so. I speak by video conference with resuscitation teams from different hospitals, nurses, health workers, doctors, so that they can tell me their daily lives at the peak of the epidemic, and I can tell you that it is impressive; We read the pride on the face, masked, of these caregivers, and she's not feigned or usurped. Indeed, they were able to multiply by two or three the number of resuscitation beds. A reactor told me his pride that he never had to intubate a sick man in a hallway. A nurse told me that she never had to unplug a patient's respirator to give it to a younger patient. Teams were really afraid of the influx of patients, since 500 to 600 new patients entered resuscitation every day in France. Caregivers stress the importance of evacuating patients by helicopter, train or boat, and the incredible solidarity of colleagues who have crossed France to help the resuscitation services and enable them to hold. That's what they're talking about. However, I do not neglect the profound subject that you refer to, namely the loss of sense put forward by some in the daily practice of their profession. The challenge before us is to recognize to its value the place of caregivers in our society, as they are indispensable to it. We continue to study this subject, even if caregivers currently have priorities other than participating in major consultations, but the time will come. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The Prime Minister announced the payment of a premium to hospital caregivers. Several hundred million euros have been allocated to hospitals, which is normal in the current period. I also announced the suspension of all restructuring plans, throughout the territory, at the Vinatier, in the Great East or elsewhere: we will stop everything and we will see later, after consulting with the actors on the ground. Rest assured!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u64	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u65	On 11 May, the deconfination will take place under particularly risky conditions. To limit contagion, the wearing of the mask must be widespread and mandatory in public places. But then, if masks are mandatory, they must, like school, be free and accessible to all, and it is up to the State to guarantee it. No one should be prevented from protecting himself, protecting his own, protecting others, from contagion, for financial reasons. You must order free masks and arrange their distribution. But you refuse to do so. Why? Because Emmanuel Macron has imposed on you a date of arbitrary definity, behind which you run. Because you do not requisition the textile industries and you are unable to plan the production. Because supply and distribution chains are not even determined yet – each city will provide, or not, masks to its inhabitants, terrible inequality! Because you refuse to control prices "so as not to curb innovation," in your words, Minister of Solidarity and Health. Yesterday, in a pharmacy, I found a cloth mask for 13 euros: beautiful innovation! The Prime Minister announced that masks would be mandatory in some cases, but without guaranteeing their distribution. The 5 million washable masks for the poorest people will be insufficient, with more than 9 million poor people in our country. You therefore create discrimination for the most vulnerable. If the price of the mask prevents people from getting them, they will be infected. The most affected will be the poorest and most vulnerable to the serious forms of the disease: those living in smaller, more populated and unhealthy housing, or in medical deserts, in the countryside or in the city. It is enough to see the ravages of the pandemic in Seine-Saint-Denis to convince oneself of it. The epidemic will continue to spread. Defining will be a failure, and we may have to reconvene, as Germany is about to. Don't allow the epidemic to go back! Give everyone and everyone the means to protect themselves from contamination! Declare the free masks for the entire population! Organize their distribution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u66	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u67	Mr. Lachaud, I invite each of us to avoid turning into a preacher of the apocalypse...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u68	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u69	...– even if, in anticipating the resumption of the epidemic and the reconfinition, I imagine that you have allowed yourself to go to an effect of a rostrum beyond your thought. This is not the message that the French expect from their national representation. They need to be explained to them the debunking measures: where will it take place? Why? In which areas will it be deployed? What will be the means that will be given to them? What can they do themselves to prevent the epidemic from spreading again? We will never repeat enough, the means available to everyone are the barrier gestures: they may not be visible and they do not allow us to speak of requisitions – we do not demand the soaping of our hands – but they are nevertheless fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u70	What about the masks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u71	In addition to physical distancing, hand washing and all these gestures that work to limit the circulation of epidemics – not just this one – there is the equipment of the French in standard protective masks for the general public. Their manufacture is not simple, but it has not been necessary to make requisitions since our country is experiencing a general mobilisation, more than a hundred companies having organized themselves to produce them, not to mention imports. You rightly mentioned the risk of social inequalities. The Prime Minister announced yesterday, in this forum, that 5 million masks would be given, from the first stock, through the prefects and local authorities, to the CCAS, the communal centres of social action, with a view to their distribution to people living in precarious conditions. You're talking about the Seine-Saint-Denis: it's going well, I was there last Saturday to meet all the associations mobilized in an associative house.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u72	And I was there yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u73	Their representatives told us about their extraordinary daily effort, their ability to organize themselves and work together to distribute food and provide financial aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u74	It's nothing but charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u75	They thanked the State because the exceptional solidarity aid, which would be paid to them from 15 May, would provide them with indispensable financial support. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Again, let's avoid excesses! We can exchange things other than with the effects of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u76	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u77	Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, trust in the decisions taken by the Government in times of health crisis is absolutely crucial, as you yourself said. However, after obvious contradictions on the doctrine of the use of masks by the general public, we learn that, of the 10,000 respirators ordered by you at the heart of the crisis, 8500 are unsuitable for the resuscitation of patients with Covid -19, while the President of the Republic had communicated very widely on this order to reassure the caregivers and the French. All medical operations requiring possible access to resuscitation have been deprogrammed so that the vast majority of respirators are dedicated to patients with coronavirus. In this sense, the decision to order a majority of Osiris 3 respirators is totally incomprehensible. If the learned societies have properly validated this choice, it is likely under the pressure of the Government and conditional on the use of these fans as a last resort. Indeed, they are not adjustable and can even be harmful to patients, beyond two days of use. It is not a question of arguing about the cost of such a measure, but of understanding why you decided, at the heart of the crisis, to order 85% of inappropriate respirators. What were the criteria of your choice? Of two things one: either you did not know that these respirators were inadequate, in which case it is a manifest error on your part, which I doubt; either you knew they were inadequate and you decided to order them anyway. In this second hypothesis, is it because you wanted to artificially reassure public opinion, by making up the reality of this order, which would be unacceptable? Or did you conclude an agreement with the consortium of companies, which would explain this strange decision? We would be entitled to know the reasons for this. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you said, the confidence of the French requires clear and transparent decisions on the part of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u78	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u79	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thank you very much, Mrs Bonnivard, for this 100% non-controversial question, as you have taken care to clarify...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u80	We ask you questions that are of concern to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u81	And the government better answer that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u82	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I look forward to the controversial issues; you have demonstrated the tact and the measure that the period requires...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u83	With the opposition, we're used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u84	Don't take back the bad habits of interrupting speakers. When there were fewer people, the sessions were infinitely quieter: questions and answers were listened to with attention. Let us keep from this period of crisis this very useful teaching. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u85	Mrs Bonnivard, I will ask you other questions, which you could have asked me in another situation: "Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, how do you explain that France has not done everything possible to order breathers and protect the sick? How do you explain, even though the determined action of the caregivers has allowed to increase the number of resuscitation beds to 14000, that we have 10,000 resspirators, so that 4000 rooms are without them? What do you say to the families of those sick people who couldn't get a ventilator? »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u86	It would be better to answer the question I asked you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u87	Let's add this international variant: "Do you find it normal that in a country like France you have to plug two patients into the same respirator? These are the questions you could have asked me, Mrs. Bonnivard! [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I tell you very calmly: I assume the trials that will be done to me on the theme "You have done too much for the health of the French! I will always assume them, because we never do too much for the health of the French. Never too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u88	You still don't answer! You're uncomfortable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u89	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mrs Bonnivard, you offer me the opportunity to welcome the incredible mobilization of the employees of some French companies, who came to the factories, day and night, in order to produce more than 10,000 respirators to help France cope. I will mention Schneider Electric and Air Liquide, whose research and innovation activities I welcome. To answer you on the merits,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u90	That's good, you have 15 seconds of speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u91	... Osiris 3 respirators are light "transport" respirators, which we are able to improve – this has been done in some hospitals – in order to ventilate patients in hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u92	You're not answering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u93	You can imagine that all our decisions are backed by the recommendations of the white coats. In this case, we consulted the resuscitation companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We can be proud of our country! France produces respirators, which are useful and could have been even more useful – fortunately, it was not necessary to use them all. Some countries, you see, are very pleased that we are talking with them and that we can lend them some, or even give them some tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u94	There's a wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u95	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u96	Prime Minister, like all the French, I welcome the major involvement of caregivers in the fight against the coronavirus epidemic. I welcome your choice to reward them with bonuses, although I remain convinced that the revalorisation of wages and statutes remains what needs to be worked on. You have chosen to reward them according to the departments and services in which the agents concerned exercise: 1500 euros for the services Covid + hospitals referenced in the most affected departments; 1500 euros for the Covid services of 108 reference hospitals; 500 euros for other services. My question is simple: what is a referral hospital? Or, rather, how will the officers who have worked in a Covid+ department of a hospital that is not classified as a first-rate responder be treated? They also welcomed many seriously ill patients! They also gave themselves without counting! Doctors, interns, nurses, service agents, laundry agents, restaurant, administration and support services in general: a whole human chain has mobilized to ensure the best chances for the sick – moreover, this is the case throughout the year. What about the agents of the long-term care units and the EHPADs facing the disease, who sometimes became ill themselves? What about the agents of the other services whose hospital is not referenced Covid +? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Louis Aliot also applauds]] For example, is the Saint-Malo-Dinan territory hospital group among the 108 establishments listed? He welcomed many Covid patients; Some healthcare and medical teams have taken part in the transfer of patients by health train from the Paris region to Brittany. The staff demonstrated an uncompromising example. Will he receive the exceptional premium? More generally, are you considering finally raising wages and improving working conditions for French hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u97	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u98	Mr. Lurton, thank you for your question, and for your sincere and constant commitment to caregivers, not only in the hospital but also in the EHPADs. A bonus was announced; It will be granted to caregivers as a whole, all trades and professions. Last week, I had to reassure some interns, some of whom thought they were not concerned, when they were in ambulatory care interns; It's always been a question of whether they are. I know there are questions about the trades involved. As we have announced, all hospital trades are covered by the premium. On the other hand, you are asking the question of its differentiation, depending on whether we have been, so to speak, on the front line, or whether we have worked in health facilities less faced with the risk of Covid and the effort made. Once everyone has participated, everyone will receive a bonus. Moreover, the 50 per cent overtime rule applies to everyone everywhere. You are asking in particular the question of the health establishment of Saint-Malo. There is a list of 108 institutions, listed as particularly welcoming Covid patients and opening dedicated care units. In addition to these institutions, others have indeed been involved in the fight against the epidemic – even if they are not included in the above list – and have taken remarkable action, since they have been more strongly mobilized than expected. A regulatory text is being prepared; it should be published by the end of this week. In the thirty-two departments most affected by the pandemic, each will receive the premium at its highest level; In the others, a list will be drawn up of the hospitals which will benefit from the same provisions for the valorisation of effort and premium, following a study of the situations on a case-by-case basis. I have already passed on instructions to my office to look into the particular situation of a particular hospital. We will study that of the Saint-Malo care facility, as we study that of other institutions, in order to value everyone. Your question gives me the opportunity, by answering it, to recall that everyone has participated in this remarkable effort. It is no longer even necessary, I believe, to clarify how proud the French are of their caregivers or how grateful they are to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u99	We continue our session with questions on economic and social issues. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u100	My question is to the Secretary of State for Transport. I associate my colleagues Laurianne Rossi and Damien Pichereau. Freedom of movement is the essential foundation of our individual freedoms. We see here the magnitude of the necessary sacrifice made by the French, after more than forty days of confinement. The first factor of emancipation, mobility is at the heart of the republican promise. In this regard, I would like to express the recognition of national representation towards women and men who ensure the continuity of our transport and freight system. They allow us to hold. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced strong measures to re-establish travel in a framed manner: maximum resumption of the supply of public transport at the local level, minimization of long-distance transport and application of physical distancing measures. This objective is a major challenge for transport operators and mobility organising authorities. The challenge is enormous for many family transport companies, which irrigate our territories. How will the state accompany mobility actors to ensure a public transport offer while allowing the proper application of barrier actions? How can alternative solutions such as cycling be encouraged? Finally, what will be the real mobility offer next May 11 in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u101	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u102	Mr Zulesi, thank you for your words for the employees in the transport sector, who have been particularly involved since the first day of the crisis. In essence, you allow me to go back to the three pillars that support our policy of deconfining transport. The first is to increase the supply, so – very prosaically – to circulate as many trains and vehicles as possible, since only a small number of people can be allowed in. It then involves reducing demand, in order to avoid congestion in public transport, especially during peak hours, which means, in conjunction with companies, facilitating the use – as is the case at present – of telework, and organising the spread of hours of hiring and debauchery. This is a complex work, which is carried out effectively by my colleagues Bruno Le Maire and Muriel Pénicaud. Finally, it consists in protecting transport operators – from the beginning of the crisis, Prime Minister has issued a decree to this effect – as well as travellers, thanks to the improvement of cleaning and disinfection procedures, and through the mandatory wearing of the mask, which will prevail from 11 May next and will be subject to checks and, if necessary, sanctions. Some topics, such as the implementation of barrier actions and respect for physical distance in public transport, are more complex. We have a constant and continuous dialogue with local and regional authorities. We brought him this morning again, at nine o'clock, under the auspices of the Prime Minister. On 11 May, we will have a strong, legally robust organization capable of meeting transport needs in full compliance with the Government's health doctrine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u103	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u104	My question is for the Prime Minister. I would like to associate our colleague, Dino Cinieri. The period of sanitary confinement reminds everyone of a simple reality, which many had forgotten: it is our farmers who feed us and guarantee us real food security. If caregivers, paramedics, life attendants – all heroes of everyday life – are on the front line, it is also thanks to our farmers, farmers and fishermen, placed in the second line, that the country has been able to hold. They are not spared by the health and economic crisis. These include the milk sector, which has closed many markets, notably due to the decline in consumption of PDO cheeses, and horticulturalists, who have lost between 50% and 80% of their annual turnover, because they are still prohibited from selling certain plants which the large distribution can sell.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u106	These are just two examples. Confessing food to others was a mistake yesterday; It would be crazy tomorrow. I hope that we will rebuild our food sovereignty, with a strategy built on a European scale. Despite its intentions, the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and a healthy and sustainable diet – EGALIM – has failed with regard to the distribution of value. We can no longer lead producers and consumers into the wall. This crazy race to the ever cheaper shopping cart kills the peasant and does not enrich the citizen. Food is one of the keys to meeting the challenges before us: eating well is health for all; producing well means acting on the environment; Well-transforming means supporting our agri-food industry. That is what our food sovereignty strategy must remember! We are facing two challenges. We must protect our sectors and re-establish France's food power. Prime Minister, how and within what time frame will you decline in our territories the emergency measures signed by the European Commission? The second issue is food accessibility. The purchasing power of the French is sluggish; The times will be tough. Our duty is to ensure that food is not a social class marker. We will have to make courageous decisions and reverse logic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, I ask you to take a position on the following two proposals for economic and social recovery: to reduce VAT on a national food reference panel; reduce the costs of producers to be competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u107	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u108	Mr Dive, thank you for the well-deserved tribute you paid to the agricultural sector as a whole. Farmers, fishermen, horticulturalists, aquaculturists: all have helped feed the country in the last few weeks, at a time when we did not have the ability to import as many goods as usual. They have demonstrated, through their involvement and commitment, that we have our food sovereignty, and that it is not to be rebuilt. On the other hand, you are right, we must now accompany them, and first of all do so with the urgency, as we do. I would point out here that part-time unemployment affects 17% of agricultural workers, 34% of those in the agri-food industry and 45% of employees in fisheries and aquaculture. This support through partial unemployment measures is proof of our commitment to the sector. I also recall the work we have done to obtain from the European Commission a number of market measures to support agriculture and agri-food sectors. We must go further for horticulture and viticulture, which are particularly affected. With regard to food sovereignty, it must be strengthened. We must guard against the need to import products on which we depend, including animal proteins for humans and animals. In this respect, we have interesting channels, at least for innovation. When it comes to obtaining proteins from insects, we are one of the European leaders. We must therefore encourage innovation and deploy the measures we have obtained from the European Commission, going further. We must also think collectively – this is one of the challenges of the productive pact on which we worked – in order to redress our agri-food industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u109	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u110	Prime Minister, two days ago, I spoke by video conference with students from the college of Ligny-en-Barrois, located in my constituency. They asked me very simple questions: "What animates you in life? What are you trying to accomplish? Why are you fighting like that? » I told them that my fight, which led me to do politics, was first of all to fight injustices, for human dignity and for a finally human and balanced development between economic, social and environmental. It must be, it seems to me, the struggle of everyone. I told them that it is in times of crisis that we must ask ourselves the question of what is the right direction to take: if we do not do it at that time, then we never do it. That's why I had a rough speech yesterday about you. I wanted to put all my guts in it because, I'm convinced, it's now that we have to change. Everything has to change, including in companies. It is planned to help large companies, particularly public ones, to recover. I would like to be sure that they will take their part in the change of our country and of our world. Thus, €7 billion will be allocated to Air France, which announces the reopening of three national lines directly in competition with railway lines – look for the mistake! Can you reassure us about the expected counterpart from the companies receiving the aid so that they embody the world of tomorrow that we all want to draw together?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u111	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u112	I thank you, honourable Member, for linking the urgent action we are taking today with the necessary projection in the world of tomorrow, in which we will have to continue to accompany the ecological transition and the digital transition, essential pillars for transforming our country and projecting ourselves into a more economically sustainable and socially just world – since these are the two objectives that drive us. With regard to the Government's assistance to enterprises, they were primarily aimed at preventing millions of employees from becoming unemployed, and at avoiding a major social crisis which would also have a considerable effect on the health of the French in the medium term, as was the case when people were hurled into poverty. This is therefore the primary purpose of the aid granted to enterprises. Secondly, as I had committed myself to it during the parliamentary debate on the 20 billion euros allocated to the social allocation account "State financial contributions", which correspond to state investment in companies or accompanying, each time we will make sure that we define an ecological and energy trajectory, as we have just done with Air France. The company is already monitored as it is part of the portfolio of state holdings. It was therefore not difficult to work on such a path since, with the State Participation Agency, we had anticipated this concern. It is, in fact, one of the stakes for this company, beyond the immediate assistance it must receive, to succeed in projecting itself into a sustainable and ecological future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u113	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u114	The period we are living in is difficult for all French people. From the beginning, the state has been present to protect us from the virus, but also to anticipate its consequences and provide the necessary answers. We are here in this assembly to prepare for the future, a future in which we must first learn to live with the virus, before we return to the normal course of our lives. At this time of year, many French people should be planning their summer holidays; We should register our children in recreation centres, organize family reunions, buy train tickets or rent seasonal residences. The summer period starts in mid-June and as early as July 4th, children will be free, if you confirm the school holiday calendar. The French have the right to this annual interruption. You'll have to change your mind, get some leisure, try some freedom. I stress the uncertainty which weighs on restaurants, cafes, hotel accommodation but also the opening of the beaches which, each in its own way, are a response to the need for escape. Some of our fellow citizens will be able to organise, others will be more difficult to overcome the constraints of the moment. Our responsibility will be to provide answers to all. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Prime Minister, can you clarify the first recommendations and the timetable envisaged by the Government to assist the French in organizing this summer period?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u115	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u116	Rendez-vous is taken by the end of May to chart prospects for tourism professionals, restaurateurs and the leisure sector. As the Prime Minister has said, the progressive nature of deconfining is essential: it is important to monitor the evolution of the epidemic within fifteen or twenty days after May 11. Rendez-vous is therefore scheduled for the end of May: we will then be able to present clear perspectives. You're right, these are important because professionals have to organize professionally – to recruit staff, to replenish stocks – but setting a date too early could have led them to take risks, if we had had to go back to that date. We are working with professionals to establish health protocols. The French, when they want to blow, will also want to be reassured about the reception conditions. It must be said very clearly, and everyone realizes that this summer season will not be like the others. Tourism will only be able to resume concentrically, initially with an ultra-proximity clientele. The sites that will be able to reopen are small museums as well as natural sites, parks and gardens in departments where the virus is not actively circulating. Then, gradually, depending on the evolution of the virus, decisions can be taken to expand the number of sites. Everyone will have to be able to blow. As I know, parliamentarians of the majority have made proposals in favour of tourism for all, in particular in order to develop holiday vouchers or to facilitate the travel of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u117	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u118	In the terrible health crisis we are experiencing, the cultural sector obviously suffers. He's not spared. Cultural entrepreneurs, artists, authors and intermittents are experiencing serious difficulties and are legitimately concerned about the situation of culture and the arts. You know better than anyone else, culture is a major response to the evils of our society, to the rise of nationalism and hatred of the other, to the dangers of separatism, to the terrible social, economic, cultural and sometimes community divides. Culture is knowledge and knowledge, it is tolerance – and we need it in our society. It is also freedom and happiness to live together. To address these concerns, responses have been provided. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that, starting on 11 May, small museums, bookstores, libraries and media libraries could be reopened. They will have to be supported; But, for festivals, theatres, cabarets and cinemas, what policy should be pursued in the coming months? We need to shed some light on them. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Our model of cultural exception is sometimes jealous; It's a chance, a great opportunity for the next day. After the good measures already in place, what initiatives do you intend to take to protect companies in the cultural sector? What measures do you intend to adopt in favour of artists and authors who are vulnerable when we need them so much? Finally, what measures do you envisage in favour of intermittents, which, essential to cultural policy and to our arts, will not be able to perform the necessary hours in the coming months? It is essential to facilitate and extend the collection of their allowances: it is an absolute imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u119	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u120	Mr Bournazel, I can only make your comments on the importance of culture for our compatriots, both individually and collectively. In this period of containment, culture helps our compatriots to hold. It will also help them bounce afterwards. From the outset, the Government had hoped that cultural professionals would be able to access all the cross-cutting measures – State-guaranteed loans, partial unemployment, the solidarity fund to which artists-authors could claim. We have complemented these measures with several specific mechanisms managed by operators in the cultural sector: the Ministry of Culture in its diversity, the CNM – National Music Centre – the CNC – National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image, the CNL – National Book Centre – and the CNAP – National Centre for Plastic Arts – and others. These operators immediately made available means to accompany this disaster-stricken sector as a matter of urgency. We still have two main subjects to work on, in collaboration with local authorities, companies, associations, all the actors and artists of culture: the conditions for deconfining – the Prime Minister set yesterday a first framework that will have to be gradually refined – and then the accompanying of the recovery and the revival of the sector so important for our country and our compatriots. We will therefore have the opportunity, together with all parliamentarians, the National Assembly and the Senate, as well as local and regional authorities, to build the best mechanisms to meet the so important needs of this sector so strategic for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u121	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u122	I would like to associate my colleague Laurent Garcia with my question. The press adapts to the digital transition and transforms its uses. Never has the resilience of our press players been so important. Since most titles, including political and general information, have a vital societal role in this health crisis, they continue to appear in paper format, often at a loss. But digital revenues do not compensate so much for the fall in advertising revenues, which has been catastrophic in the last two months, nor for the equally abyssal decline in point-of-sale broadcasting. The economic model of newspapers and magazines is always based on the couple selling space and selling copies, and this model must be maintained. The paper press should therefore continue to be distributed. On 20 April, Presstalis, the principal of the two cooperatives providing this service, declared itself at the end of payment. The courier sector is facing a structural decline in its activity, exacerbated by the current crisis, which has aggravated chronic frailties and difficulties that have not been addressed for the past 20 years. The restructuring plan, with the massive support of the State from which the company benefited less than two years ago, did not bear fruit as well as the previous ones. The necessary judicial correction of Presstalis puts a risk of destabilization to the whole of an already well fragile sector, from advertising to the printer, and to our newspaper merchants, still waiting for a payment for 2019. We must preserve the French richness and specificity of the diversity of titles and the abundance of small publishers. They are part of our cultural and territorial heritage that is now being undermined. [[Applause on a few benches of MODEM, LaREM, LR and LT groups]] Mr Minister of Culture, how, at the time of Fake News, can we better support the print press, which is vital for its role as an information, education and social link to the citizens of the world? What do you think of a tax credit for advertisers? How can the state guarantee the sustainability of the distribution of the press? How can we protect all the players in this sector, which is intended to transmit knowledge and which is essential to our daily lives and our democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u123	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u124	For several months now, the Government has been working with you to support a sector in crisis, that of the press and, more broadly, of the media. We have thus adopted the transposition of the Copyright Directive to create a neighbouring right in order to contribute to the renewal of the economic model of the press. We have reformed the Bichet law which governs the distribution of the print press on the basis of the fundamentals of it, first and foremost the guarantee of pluralism, while modernising it to make regulation more effective. Bruno Le Maire and I are working on a sector plan to examine and respond to all the problems facing the sector. We are, of course, working on the case of Presstalis, who has been in a crisis for years and who has had to declare himself at the end of payment. We are working with press publishers, cooperatives, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and ARCEP – the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority – to find a lasting mechanism to ensure that a distribution of the print press is maintained throughout the country, while respecting the pluralism and diversity of publishers. It is complex and difficult, but the state has ensured that there is no break in the distribution of the press. It will continue to do so and support the new model that Presstalis and press publishers are in the process of inventing. In addition, we remain vigilant about the health of publishers, especially the smaller ones, whether in Hexagon or overseas. We know that a number of titles have difficulties: we talked about France-Antilles, we can think of Paris-Normandie; titles are also very fragile in Réunion and many other regions. We will continue, with these titles and professional organisations, to find solutions for everyone, because it is the diversity of the press that guarantees its pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u125	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u126	My question is for the Minister of Culture, and I would like to associate my colleagues Michèle Victory and Sylvie Tolmont. The terrible crisis that our nation is going through affects all its sectors of activity, but the world of culture will be one of the most dramatic and lastingly affected. The closure of cafés, theatres and other cultural venues, the cancellation of festivals, will have a lasting impact on the income of artists, who often live below the poverty line. Intermittents in the show may not be able to renew their status. The live entertainment sector is expected to lose EUR 590 million from 1 March to 31 May. Concern is also growing on the part of cultural institutions. The Ordinance of 22 April 2020 has, of course, made necessary changes to the scheme of partial unemployment, but under still drastic conditions for public establishments and scenes which, in order to benefit from it, must draw the majority of their resources from industrial and commercial activity, such as the rental of spaces, which is rarely the case. Quality establishments, such as the 104 or the Gaîté-Lyrique, and even the Philharmonie de Paris, are therefore at risk. Local authorities cannot assume such high amounts, although they are already providing them with public subsidies. The smaller associations, in the context of partial unemployment, are struggling to raise wages and the portion of non-reimbursable expenses during this period of inactivity. Minister, jobs in this already fragile sector are essential to our country's economic life and contribute to its impact and to our society as a whole. What are your answers to safeguarding jobs in the cultural sector? With your colleague Mrs Pénicaud, do you intend to relax the conditions for access to partial unemployment for EPICs – a public industrial and commercial establishment – and the subsidized structures?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u127	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u128	As I recalled in reply to Mr. Bournazel, the Government has ensured that cross-cutting measures can be accessible to professionals in culture, and specifically that of partial unemployment. Cultural companies, as well as intermittents, can have access to it. We have also, together with Muriel Pénicaud, changed the rules on intermittance by maintaining the rights of those who, without this decision, would have been excluded from this regime since they cannot perform their performances and accumulate their hours during the confinement period. We have also made it possible, through a professional fund under way, for those outside the intermittent regime to receive social assistance so that no one is left on the side of the road. We are also working with Muriel Pénicaud in the future, because we understand that the emergency arrangements that have been made will not be sufficient over the long term. Unfortunately, the crisis in the cultural sector will last a long time and it will therefore be necessary to give visibility to the intermittents as to their status and access to their social rights. We also work specifically by institution. Companies, associations and EPICs, if they have minority public funding – because this is the rule – have access to partial unemployment. We are working to ensure that CCPs – public institutions for cultural cooperation – regardless of how they are financed, whether public or private, can also benefit from this mechanism. The political decision was taken; It now remains to be applied technically to ensure that these institutions can also have access to partial unemployment. More broadly, it will obviously be necessary to evaluate the means used to serve these exceptional networks, especially in the live show, which provide exceptional performances for our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u129	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u130	My question is to the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals, and I associate all my fellow Commissioners with the laws of the Republic on the move. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, LR, SOC and LT groups]] We would like, Madam Minister, to commend the measures taken to limit the spread of the virus in the prison world and to pay tribute to prison staff for their professionalism and dedication in this difficult time. However, we have been alerted to the conditions under which many of the defendants have had their pre-trial detention extended automatically without going before a judge and without the assistance of a lawyer. Such procedures cannot continue, including in a state of health emergency. That is why we are in agreement with the requests that this exceptional measure be terminated as soon as the 11 May deconfination takes place and that the accused be brought promptly before a judge of freedoms and detention. We know that you have made commitments to that end, which we welcome and encourage. Beyond the extension of pretrial detention, there is the question of requests for the release of accused persons during this period of travel restrictions. The current formalism is too heavy and inadequate for the period we are experiencing. For this reason, we propose that applications for release may be sent by e-mail when the conditions of their examination permit, for example when providing proof of residence or work for the purpose of guaranteeing the accused's representation. Finally, since it is necessary to give full meaning to pre-trial detention – which is to move the investigation forward – and even more so for those whose detention has been prolonged without a judge reviewing their case, we hope that all these defendants, together with their lawyers, can present their defence and substantive elements before the investigating judge and before the end of the pre-trial detention. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These, Madam Minister, are the proposals that we are submitting to you, which must form part of a plan to resume judicial activity, which we call for in order to preserve the rights of litigants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u131	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u132	I would like to associate myself, Mrs Avia, with the thanks you have given to the staff of the prison administration, as well as with my wishes to highlight the commitment of all justice personnel in this difficult period. Because of the pandemic, our jurisdictions and our courts have had to reorganize: the holding of hearings, in particular, has proved to be particularly complex and, as you know, some magistrates, for various reasons, have been prevented. For this reason, compliance with legal time limits, including those relating to pre-trial detention, has sometimes proved difficult, if not impossible. It was therefore my responsibility to avoid the release of suspected dangerous persons. I would remind you that of the 15,000 persons currently in pre-trial detention, almost two thirds are for criminal offences. This is the subject of the March 25 order. But it is also my responsibility, I stress very much, to ensure that the return to common law takes place as soon as possible. With the gradual return to a normal situation beginning on 11 May, I will present today to the Council of State a draft order allowing the return to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will obviously take place under appropriate conditions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I take note, Madam Member, of your proposals, which are intended to facilitate the examination of applications for release and to allow the investigating judge to re-examine an accused person within two months, if he or she has been the subject of a full extension of his or her pre-trial detention. Your proposals are perfectly in line with my desire for a rapid review of the situations of those who could not be treated during the confinement period. Your proposals are therefore very interesting, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u133	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u134	My question is for Minister Jacqueline Gourault. In the crisis of the whole world, unity and solidarity will save us. In the name of these principles, I wish to reiterate here the obvious fact that this unprecedented situation cannot be resolved without the assistance of our local communities. As a true guarantor of the life of our territories, the municipalities are once again on the front line. It is our mayors who are within reach to smile and sniff when our citizens wonder and worry. It is our local elected representatives who, in the villages, often mobilize themselves personally to provide support and assistance to the most isolated and fragile people. They, too, will be responsible for the local declination of the measures taken by the State for deconfination. Let us express our gratitude to them for these permanent commitments, but gratitude will not suffice. This crisis will have serious consequences for the budgets and organisation of our communes and the elected representatives are warning us. Admittedly, the containment has led to some expenditure cuts, but it will not compensate for the deficit to be forecast, due to the lack of revenue due to the cancellation of demonstrations and the additional expenditure related to the health crisis. Purchase of masks; rehabilitation, reopening and maintenance of municipal infrastructure; purchase of health products for school and crèche; reorganisation of human resources in the extra-curricular sector; Maintenance of subsidies to associations; recruitment of additional staff for cultural and sports associations; In short, the declination and responsibility for declination will be shared between the State and the local and regional authorities. However, given the over-solicitation of our communes and the exceptional expenditure generated by the crisis, we cannot allow them to risk bankruptcy, and our duty is to accompany them. The Government must assure our local elected officials that at the end of this crisis they will not be left behind. That is why I ask you, minister, that a specific support plan for municipalities be considered. This is a sine qua non for the principle of solidarity, indispensable for the health of our territories, and therefore of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u135	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u136	Thank you, Mrs Petit, for your question, which allows me to take stock of the measures already taken to support the local communities, as well as the tracks on which we are working. A few weeks ago, the urgency was to prevent some communes from being in temporary cash flow difficulties and thus unable to honour their bills or pay their agents. That is why we have taken immediate steps to ease the conditions under which municipalities can use the cash lines open to banks. In particular, we allowed mayors to do so directly and asked the prefects to mobilise the tax or staffing advances that would be needed by local authorities. I believe that this has been and will be useful; we continue to do so. No municipality is currently in default of payment. The urgency, as you have pointed out, is now to allow local and regional authorities to meet the costs of implementing the deconfining plan, and I can assure you here – I say loud and clear – that these expenses and costs will be assessed. We are already working with the Minister of Budget and Public Accounts to provide practical answers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Take the example of masks: as you know, communities are encouraged to buy them for the May 11 meeting. I cannot go back to that, but the Prime Minister's announcement yesterday in this House of the state's participation to the tune of 50% of the cost of public masks acquired by local authorities is important. I had answered a question from Mr Lecoq last week on the subject of expenditure and said that we would not let the local authorities down. We don't let them down, even when they lack recipes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u138	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u139	Prime Minister, in your plan yesterday for deconfinination, the local elected representatives occupy a major place. In the front line since the beginning of the crisis, however, they have been working under very difficult conditions. In 30,000 of the 35,000 French communes, the teams elected in the first round, on March 15, have still not been installed. In the other 5000 municipalities, outgoing mayors assume their functions without visibility on the organisation of the second round, which is necessarily uncomfortable. However, the installation of municipal councils is essential for the revival of public control, which is an essential lever for the re-starting of the economy. Yesterday, you didn't talk about all this. When can the new municipal teams finally be installed? Despite these uncertainties, mayors are on all fronts: ordering and distributing masks for the population; Coordination of citizen initiatives for the manufacture of protective materials; health security of schools, crèches and leisure centres; adaptation of public transport networks to distancing rules; contract management; Re-opening of waste facilities, which constitute an indispensable public service. Local elected officials are better aware of the constraints inherent in their territory than anyone else. Since the beginning of the crisis, they have demonstrated a great sense of responsibility and, often, courage. We want them to have a great deal of room for manoeuvre in the organization of the deconfinement. This implies that administrations such as the Regional Directorates of Environment, Planning and Housing, Regional Directorates of Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment or Regional Health Agencies are flexible and caring for them. Prime Minister, pragmatism and common sense are the key words for the success of deconfinement. Are you going to give local elected officials enough flexibility? Are you going to pass clear instructions to your administrations?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u141	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u142	I think I could take up the statement you made before asking your question, Mr Sermier: it is important to recognise the role played by the local elected representatives, first and foremost the mayors, in the delicate circumstances we know due to the health crisis – even if they still play an important role; In order to build and implement the national deconfining plan, it is necessary to trust them, which means not to say yes systematically, but to work intelligently by understanding the common goal and trying to find together the best solutions to achieve it. So I'm completely on the line you just described. You are asking me when the municipal councils that were fully elected at the end of the round of elections that took place on March 15th can be installed. We understand both the impatience – it is legitimate – and the concern for clarity – it is necessary – of elected teams who cannot take up office and, perhaps even more so, of beaten or abandoned teams who must continue to manage the affairs of the commune. I am also thinking of the latter, because they have to face important responsibilities, and it is not very simple. As I said yesterday in response to the statements made by the various speakers, and as we are happy to say this morning, our aim is that the municipal councils elected in their entirety on the evening of the first round be installed as soon as possible. There is no double language: the faster they will be installed, the clearer things will be. The vast majority of the 30,000 communes that are in the situation you have described have a city council composed of fifteen members. It seems to me that as soon as they are disbanded from 11 May, they should be able to meet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u144	In any case, I am confident that they will be able to do so as soon as possible. I say this with caution because a procedure has been laid down by law: a report will determine whether we will be able to set up municipal councils by that date. So I don't want to go faster than the music. I think it would be a good thing, not only for the clarity of political action and life, but also for decisions – on investments, administrative acts or local projects – to be made in accordance with past commitments. The installation of these municipal councils would be useful. It will take place as soon as possible, but with due respect, as you will understand, for the procedure which we have agreed together and which has been adopted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u145	What about the second round?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u146	The same answer: I refer you to the terms of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u147	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u148	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, the health crisis is putting our country to the test, shaking our daily lives and sometimes touching us in its most painful intimate dimension. There are many victims; families are bereaved. This epidemic causes the penalties that make up a national tragedy. In order for our country to continue to live and be able to treat, French and French people are on the front line. They are at work, fighting for the benefit of others, and endangering their own health more than others. These faces, those engaged in the service of others, these twenty-hour applause are also sometimes mothers and fathers. In Châteauroux, Indre, a 48-year-old caregiver died. Widowed, she left four orphans in her wake. I want to pay tribute to him; I want to address all my thoughts, all our thoughts, his children. Forty of my colleagues and I have recently called for the creation of a national recognition status, similar to that of the nation's ward, to help children who lost a parent during the war against the Covid-19. The aim is to make it possible for them to build a more peaceful future, even if the loss of a parent cannot be repaired. After the dissemination of this idea by the press, which I thank, many people who work especially in the medical field came to me. All of them are very favourable. I will remember the reflection given to me by a nurse: "If it existed, we would worry less about the future of our families, as at the moment. Thanks for thinking about it. » Madam Secretary of State, does the Government envisage protection mechanisms for children who are victims of the loss of a dead parent in the health fight? (Applause from the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Constance Le Grip and George Pau-Langevin also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u149	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u150	You evoke a painful subject, Mr. Jolivet: the victims of this health crisis; the tragedy of many families as a result of the death of a loved one. First of all, let me show them our full compassion in this ordeal, made even more painful by the containment measures that apply to the deuils. Among these victims, you point out, unfortunately there are caregivers who have been contaminated and paid with their lives for their commitment to save others. You are referring to the case of a caregiver who, in your department, leaves four orphans behind. I join in your tribute to him; I address to his children all my thoughts and, if they accept it, all my affection. I attest to the nation's recognition of all caregivers, who are at the end of their vocation in full knowledge of the difficulties and risks inherent in their mission. The deceased caregivers of the Covid-19 suites sometimes leave children behind. You are absolutely right, honourable Member, these children must not be abandoned. As indicated by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, caregivers infected with Covid -19 will benefit from a compensation scheme similar to that applicable in the event of an occupational disease: the consequences of the disease contracted by these people will be treated; In the event of death, the beneficiaries will be provided with income compensation. Furthermore, given the very exceptional circumstances we are currently experiencing, the Government is in the process of checking whether the existing arrangements are suitable for all situations. If necessary, of course, we will supplement them to support these families. In particular, we will consider your proposal regarding the Pupil status of the nation. (Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mrs Constance Le Grip also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u151	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u152	"A booze like that doesn't swim! "; "It's sinking, you should have hung a ball on his foot! » These racist insults were pronounced by police officers on Île-Saint-Denis about a man who had fled from them by throwing himself into the Seine. In this grievous context, it is my duty to ask again the Minister of the Interior about police violence, which has been denounced for years by the inhabitants and associations of the working-class neighbourhoods. I want to say this in this House: there is a problem in the national police, a persistent problem of disproportionate violence, racism and impunity. This time, the Minister of the Interior reacted quickly, but he overwhelmed the problem, explaining the violence by blaming their victims, reducing them to particular cases when they were too undeniable. I, too, would like to say that they are made by isolated, deviant individuals. It would be easier, but it's not. The laughter of contentment, icy, that we hear in this video and the silence that surrounds them, starting with that of the present Commissioner, show its dreadful banality, as well as the endless list of violence recorded since the beginning of confinement: Sofiane, Ramatoulaye, Mohamed and so many others have suffered serious, verbal and, often, physical violence. This is the result of a policy and violence that is too long tolerated or even covered within this institution. For the dicks who can't swim, the young people in the neighborhoods too unruly, the blacks too aggressive, the fools too dangerous or too big, after the demonstrators too disputing, are not excuses; They are discriminatory stereotypes and pretexts. Yet there would be so much to do to restore meaning to the Republican police, to reinvent it. It would be an encouraging message to the many police officers who are interested in it. Demonstrating the highest demand for the police is also testimony that it is of the utmost importance. The first step is to recognize the reality and extent of such violence; no longer use the police to impose an unjust social system; finally begin to train and recruit otherwise; Back to a real local police force. So my question is simple: do you say, like me, that there is a serious problem? If so, how are you going to end it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u154	As you know, Mr. Coquerel, the police intervene to enforce the law, within a framework strictly defined by law. In this context, it may use coercion and force. That is why we demand – and the texts require – that his action be always proportionate, framed, justified. That is why we demand a great responsibility and a great deal of exemplaryness. The words to which you refer were made at Île-Saint-Denis – like you, I know well the Seine-Saint-Denis and this commune. These are racist statements, totally unacceptable, that were made after an arrest for a meeting flight. I remind you, the Minister of the Interior strongly condemned them that night, in a tweet, reminding that there was no room for racism in the Republican police. The General Inspectorate of the National Police was immediately seized by the Paris police prefect. And, when the officials were identified, he very quickly sent a request for suspension to the Director General of the National Police, after agreement between the Minister of the Interior and myself. I repeat before the national representation: racism has no place in the national police; It's a crime. Count on the firmness and commitment of the Minister of the Interior and on my own people to investigate every time such statements are made or such conduct adopted and, of course, to be punished if the facts are confirmed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] However, I cannot and do not want to let you say that such behaviour is widespread in the national police. These facts may tarnish his image, but that is why we are reacting with great firmness. The National Police is an exceptional institution that performs exceptional missions for the safety of our fellow citizens, often at the risk of the lives of its agents. At this moment, I have a thought for the two bikers of the direction of public order and the circulation of the prefecture of police of Paris who were overthrown by an individual last Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u155	And you're not talking about that, Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u157	As you know, the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office has been seized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] The police are the most controlled body in the state civil service. Investigations, investigations and sanctions are systematically carried out when misconduct occurs. These mistakes are fortunately rare.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u159	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u160	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Libya has been in a situation of acute crisis for many months. This is a civil war involving outside fighters and a political crisis between the ruling groups. The vital needs of the population are not being met, and the country is now threatened by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is estimated that 650,000 men, women and children are ready to flee to the European coasts. The authorities in Malta have indicated that they do not have the means to cope with a new wave of sea migration and call for an urgent humanitarian operation by the European Union in Libya, which would involve providing food aid and medical care to Libyans. In addition, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported the first return of persons to a country at war. The situation is complex, particularly in view of the internal conflict in Libya and the possible consequences of inaction. At its meeting on 22 April, the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union raised the Libyan question but did not take a position. Can you give us information on the exact situation and position of France? What initiatives does our country intend to take, within the framework of Europe and other international institutions, to carry out a humanitarian operation for the people and neighbouring States? This is both a foreign policy and a humanitarian action: it shows how much is happening elsewhere for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u161	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u162	The Libyan crisis, Madam Member, has changed its nature; Foreign interference, the influx of mercenaries and violations of the embargo are contributing to a significant deterioration of the situation. At this very moment, fighting is intensifying everywhere, especially in Tripoli, and civilian populations are the first victims. In addition to this situation, the political process developed in Berlin last January by all the actors, including the Heads of State and Government, has been bogged down. Presidents Putin, Macron and Sissi, but also Erdogan, as well as Secretary of State Pompeo in particular: everyone was there to reach an agreement. However, the political process thus defined is not respected: on the contrary, everyone takes initiatives that call into question its very start. In this context, a few days ago, together with our European partners, we launched a new call for a humanitarian truce during Ramadan, relaying the United Nations initiative in this direction. Unfortunately, this truce is not respected when it would be even more important during the Covid-19 period. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Libyan crisis has a major impact on migration flows and on the situation of migrants and refugees in Libya. We have supported Malta's initiative, which I hope will be followed up. We also continue to support the work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration, which are doing outstanding work with refugees in Libya, even though they have had to suspend resettlement and voluntary return programmes, as a result of the Covid-19 crisis. We complement their efforts by helping to reorient the emergency trust fund so that it is more easily accessible to refugee populations as part of the Covid-19 epidemic. France has decided to support the Libyan action to solve the health crisis in the amount of EUR 700000, in connection with the World Health Organization (WHO). However, the real answer is that of the political crisis, which has been ongoing in that country for many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u163	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-29-O1199.u164	Next sitting, Tuesday, 5 May, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
