ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u1	The next item is the questions on the effectiveness of measures taken to combat medical desertification. I would point out that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u2	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, the issue of medical desertification brings us together regularly. You are the heir of an impossible situation and you have made a number of arrangements, but, as we have already told you several times, they must be increased because the difficulties are still to come; The measures adopted a few months ago will, unfortunately, only have their effects much later. I will ask you about three specific points. First, there is the need to speed up the exercise authorization procedures, the EAPs. Since doctors with an extra-European diploma are properly qualified, there is no justification for not accelerating EAPs. This will prevent these doctors from serving three years in the public services; Finally, they will be able to practice directly in the private sector. We have to go this way. Then, the assistant doctors: your predecessor, Marisol Touraine, had accepted the deployment of these non-teased doctors in certain departments, in support of the doctors. This measure, which is bearing fruit, must be generalised. In Eure-et-Loir, we managed to settle sixteen assistant doctors in health homes, so that they would be accompanied by guardians and we would be able to cope with the current shortage of doctors – think that, in the only district of Châteaudun, 7000 patients unfortunately do not have a doctor. Telemedicine, finally: at a recent meeting on problems related to medical desertification, the Director General of the National Health Insurance Fund – CNAM – himself acknowledged the existence of blocking elements. You are well aware, Madam Minister, that telemedicine does not provide a solution to all problems, but it is indispensable. In the face of fears of drifts, health insurance has imposed restrictions on the use of telemedicine by patients. In a territory like mine, however, it is the only way to access a medical source, because patients will not go to a generalist who, in turn, will send them back to a telemedicine consultation. Relaxation is necessary, even if it is temporary, to at least solve the short-term stretching problem – you are not asked for long-term solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] On these three points, Madam Minister, I thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u3	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u4	As you know, Mr Vigier, the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system has considerably strengthened our capacity to integrate doctors who have graduated in a country outside the European Union into the health system. All avenues are now open for these purposes. For some of them, however, we must ensure the quality of the service rendered, because we cannot take any risk with regard to French patients. That is why the accompanying mechanism for three years has been retained in the law; We owe it to our fellow citizens. Second, the same health law provides for the generalization of the deployment of assistant doctors in all subdenses. The implementing decree has been drafted and is currently subject to consultation. I make a commitment to you to do everything possible to ensure that it is promulgated as soon as possible, because I understand the needs that exist in the territory. Finally, if telemedicine – we will have the opportunity to come back to it – is an extraordinary tool, but it presents risks of drifts and could even exacerbate medical desertification. It is easier for a physician to stay in his or her geographical area by exercising behind his or her computer rather than settling in a subdensed territory. I would like telemedicine to be generalised but, because any generalisation exposes to the risk of market drifts, it should be organised on a regional basis. For example, doctors practising under this modality know the surrounding care network, are able to guide patients and are part of a journey of care that we all call our wishes. Again, I will come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u5	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u6	The medical desertification of rural areas is increasing and concerns the entire medical sector: absence of general practitioners, closure of medical analysis laboratories, scarcity of specialists, closure and loss of value of pharmacies... Even physiotherapists don't take new patients anymore! However, I do not represent a depressed territory, on the contrary: its population is growing and its density is quite high. The public hospital crystallizes these concerns. The EUR 200 million you have provided to local hospitals will not even fill their annual deficit. The agents of the hospital in Ploërmel came to my permanence to express their disarray. I wish I could have reassured them, but I am, alas, unable to do so. How could I have done so when the social security budget had a deficit of 5.4 billion? On the other hand, the regrouping of certain hospital centres leads to their devitalization. Thus, Ploërmel's emergency doctor left Vannes, and it was from this centre that it was necessary to travel 50 kilometres north to support a patient whose life expectancy was engaged. In other words, by closing services in small hospitals, there is a growing deficit, which is a problem. Given the shortage of doctors, I am not sure that the 20% increase in the numberrus clausus is sufficient, for a simple reason: when an old doctor leaves, he is often replaced by two and a half doctors, who want to work as we work today, that is, no longer start at eight o'clock and end at twenty-two hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u7	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u8	And I understand them! So I'm making an alarm call. Our fellow citizens believe that animals are better treated than we are! There are indeed veterinarians who move, including at night and on weekends, when there are no more doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u9	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u10	That's what they're telling me! And I don't have much answers to give them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u11	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u12	I understand, of course, the disarray that you are echoing, Mr Molac, both on behalf of your territory and of the caregivers themselves. Medical demography is such that there are difficulties in accessing general practitioners and specialists in all territories. The physiotherapists, on the other hand, show an extremely dynamic demography: therefore, there should be no difficulty in accessing care in this area. The problem is more related to their geographical distribution, as opposed to physicians. With regard to the latter, we have increased the number of clausus but, even without this increase, their number will increase considerably from 2027, as a result of the increase decided in 2005. Until then, it will remain stable due to retirements and ongoing training of existing physicians. Again, even if we do not open the numerus clausus, the increase will occur from 2027. In the meantime, we must succeed in organizing the territory. Indeed, medical demography is a global problem, particularly in Europe. We therefore have no possibility of recruiting doctors elsewhere. That is why we have proposed to create the territorial professional health communities – CPTS – so that all patients find a treating physician, to develop telemedicine that saves time, so that professionals can conclude cooperation protocols – because a large number of chronic diseases can benefit from follow-up by other health professionals. The deployment of the CPTS is very proactive and the increase in their number is dynamic: there are already 200 of the 1000 that we want to create. As for the hospital you are referring to, Mr President, 7 million euros have just been mobilised in January in favour of the Brittany region, in order to invest in the equipment of the daily. I'll come back to the hospital situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u13	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u14	For several decades, the successive majorities have, admittedly, preferred the financial incentives to set up a facility to combat medical desertification. Let us say quite frankly: these measures, which have mobilized a great deal of public money, have not produced the desired effects. Worse, the medical fracture got worse. Medical desertification, which affected mainly rural areas and suburbs, is now gaining the heart of the metropolises, which are experiencing their first difficulties. This is therefore a national emergency and, above all, a major concern for our citizens. Indeed, health and, in particular, access to health care are one of the main causes of the suffering that exists in the territories, and of the sense of abandonment expressed therein. Every day, the locals ask us to take action to get doctors there. Local elected officials played more than their role and assumed their responsibilities: the creation of health homes was facilitated by communities of communes and regions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u15	And the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u16	... as I see every day in the Pays de la Loire region and in my department of Mayenne. I would also like to commend the personal commitment of health professionals who are deeply committed to their territories, which has enabled them to respond to the difficulties of access to care on an ad hoc basis. Despite this, the situation continues to deteriorate on the ground. We need to change software to respond to the exasperation of the French, Madam Minister. This, in my view, involves the introduction of a selective agreement between doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u17	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u18	This measure, consisting of deconcentrating doctors who settle in over-density zones, would make it possible to reconcile doctors' freedom of settlement with the constitutional principle of equal access to care. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] My question will therefore be clear, Madam Minister: will the Government to which you belong be the one that will have the political courage to bring – at last! – a response to the medical fracture by introducing selective contracting?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u19	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u20	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u21	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LT group]] Courage, honourable Member, I am not lacking, but I am looking for solutions that work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u22	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u23	Frankly, if I were convinced of the beneficial effect of selective agreements on our citizens, I would introduce them. On the contrary, I believe that it is likely to worsen the phenomenon of two-speed medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u24	It exists somewhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u25	Some doctors will not give up a deconcentrated facility, and our fellow citizens are experiencing such difficulties in finding a doctor they would agree to pay without a refund. There is therefore a risk of widening the social divide. All countries, such as Germany and Canada, which experienced the planned installation, have returned to this obligation. It turns out that the G7 Health meeting I held in May with my counterparts in Paris focused specifically on access to primary care. All of them have intervened on the freedom of settlement and have expressed the disarray caused by medical desertification among their populations. The problem is global: according to the Director General of WHO – World Health Organization – the world's lack of caregivers would reach 12 million. All the countries of Europe are experiencing this difficulty. France has the chance to have other health professions than doctors – nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists – with a large workforce, which gives us the means to distribute the activity, because their members, fortunately, can follow up on some patients. The solution is to opt for incentives, which must not be exclusively financial. Doctors are primarily looking for a quality of life at work, which means facilitating clustered facilities and implementing cooperation protocols – as young doctors want. Above all, it is not necessary to favour a two-speed medicine. I am wary of selective agreements and the liberalisation of teleconsultation, which would be a tragedy for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u26	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u27	Minister, you have often advocated the development of telemedicine to combat medical desertification. In 2017, we alerted you about this on our benches. I said, "The use of telemedicine is too often described as the miracle solution to medical deserts." Let me also quote our colleague Quattenens: "Technical innovations are not the solution to all our organisational problems. ... [Telemedicine] can be used to diagnose certain wounds with the eye, to respond to emergencies, or to track people with chronic diseases who want to stay at home. On the other hand, we would like this practice to be strictly regulated. The choice of telemedicine and ambulance must be able to be made with discernment, in consultation with patients. The confidentiality of the data must be respected." Your answer was to remove barriers to the development of telemedicine. For two years, as soon as we were discussing telemedicine, we were laughing – nicely – at me, some of our colleagues going so far as to say that I was afraid of newness, especially of computer science, and that it was necessary to live with his time. However, this week we learned that a German website offers teleconsultations designed exclusively to obtain sick leave. Be aware, ladies and gentlemen: the prescription of work stoppages becomes a commercial call product! Minister, I will be a handsome player and will refrain from reminding you that I had warned you and that I was right. My question is simple: what are you going to do about this commercial call website delivering work stoppages without any doctor ausculting patients – as I predicted?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u28	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u29	Mrs Fiat, thank you for your question, which allows me to clarify my opinion on telemedicine. The website you are referring to is an absolute deviousness not only of telemedicine, but of medicine. The sick connect to it for the sole purpose of getting a work stoppage. In principle, a doctor auscultating a patient looks at his or her symptoms and decides whether or not to prescribe a stoppage of work. As soon as I was informed, I asked my services to file a legal action against this website. The CNAM did so yesterday, and the doctors' order also dealt with the matter. We must determine the legal means to put an end to this drift. This is a misappropriation of what a medical consultation must be, especially since, if the website is German, doctors who prescribe work stoppages in France are French. That is exactly why I refuse to allow the CNAM to reimburse telemedicine consultations outside a regional network approved by the regional health agency – ARS – which is fully part of the patient care journey. I want to deploy telemedicine and I have done everything possible to accelerate its development, but at the local level. For example, patients have access to their attending physician or to the doctor of a CPTS or a multi-professional health home, as part of a coordinated care journey within their region, so that the patient's file is known to doctors. I do not wish in any way the development of an anonymous telemedicine, available on websites, where everyone would seek medicine as if it were a common consumer good. This is not my vision of quality medicine. That is why I have rejected many amendments to the health bill to generalize the reimbursement of teleconsultation, even if it is provided by doctors in other European countries or even elsewhere. I remain faithful to my commitment. We need to deploy telemedicine, which avoids many unnecessary trips and offers considerable services. I am also in favour of the development of telehealth for other health professions. However, all this must be done at the local level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u30	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to put a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u31	In our countryside, in our suburbs, the deadlines for treatment are sometimes scandalously long, and the situation is getting worse. The Orne department, for example, could lose half of its general practitioners over the next four years. This medical desertification, which engulfs our emergency services, also leads many French people to give up care. Whether they are general practitioners or specialist physicians, including ophthalmologists, paediatricians and gynaecologists, access to care is deteriorating. In this context of a major crisis, it seems totally aberrant to allow practitioners to practice fee overruns. Increasing the costs of patients, even though they do not have the opportunity to choose between two doctors, is unacceptable. To treat themselves without having to pay fees, more than eight in ten Frenchmen do not have enough ophthalmologists or gynaecologists near them. The phenomenon is observed even in the city centres and in the areas with well-equipped doctors, since more than one specialist on two practices of fee overruns, and this proportion continues to increase. Thus, only 2% of gynaecologists do not. Letting do this is tantamount to condoning the rampant privatization of our city medicine. Minister, I have tabled a bill to improve access to health care to prohibit overpayments of medical fees. Are you considering getting to know about it, if you haven't already done it? Will you be able to take it back to your account, so that it can be placed on our agenda? This would put an end to the practices of some doctors, to the benefit of equal access by the French to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u32	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u33	You are right, Mrs Fiat: exceeding fees can be a barrier to access to care. In order to remove this obstacle for the most fragile, we have extended the coverage offered by the complementary health care, resulting from the merger of the complementary universal health insurance – CMU-C – and the aid for the payment of a complementary health care – ACS. Thus, it will benefit more French people than before. I estimate that around 10 million French people will benefit from complementary health care, which ensures access to care without exceeding fees. Thus, the 10 million French people with the lowest incomes will be able to access care in sector 1. On the other hand, there are conventional schemes aimed at gradually reducing fee overruns and moderating them, in particular the practical controlled tariff option – OPTAM – which has replaced the contract for access to care. It is beginning to produce its effects, which are growing from year to year. Indeed, the fee overrun rate for sector 2 physicians is decreasing from 55% in 2011 to 49% in 2017. In the case of physicians as a whole, the rate of excess of fees has increased from 54 per cent to 48 per cent over the same period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u34	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u35	Of course, but this rate is decreasing and we continue to reduce it, while ensuring access to care without exceeding fees for 10 million French. I would also like to point out that some mutual societies are responsible for overruns of fees under the OPTAM. For example, many Frenchmen have access to specialist doctors without having to pay a remainder.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u36	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u37	Many measures to reduce medical deserts have been implemented, including grants or scholarships for medical students and young graduates, the provision of medical offices and housing, and the professional integration of the spouse. At the moment, the results are not on the list. As for the health homes, I am told about them that the communes are investing to build cages, but that no zoo is coming to populate them. Health homes present a problem of functioning. Two leads seem to me to have to be explored. The first is the health centre. In my constituency, I organized a symposium on them, to which I invited the chairman of the departmental council of Saône-et-Loire, who has carried out some very interesting achievements in this area. I think it is necessary to take much stronger incentives than we have taken so far, in order to accompany the current momentum, particularly in rural areas. Health centres have advantages: they respect agreed rates, pay third parties and ensure health prevention. They are tools at the service of our most modest citizens, of the most precarious populations, especially in rural areas. They are also recognized for their multidisciplinary practices, carried out with hospital centres, EHPAD – residential institutions for dependent elderly people –, liberal doctors – it is not said enough – and social services, in favour of overall care of the care routes. This is the first lead I wonder about. As far as the second is concerned, you referred to it in replying to the question raised by our colleague Favennec Bécot. I agree with the recommendation of a selective agreement made by our colleague Philippe Vigier in the context of a report. In any event, do you not think, Madam Minister, that we could carry out experiments, or provide for flexible application arrangements? At least we're trying something! I myself was opposed to selective agreement, but since we do not find any other satisfactory solution, should we not be much bolder on this point? Some countries have done so, including Spain, the United Kingdom and Germany, in which you mentioned earlier that the measures taken had failed. We really have to take the problem with the body.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u38	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u39	Mr Chassaigne, I fully agree with you that health centres are an opportunity for our country. In addition, they respond to the desire of young doctors for paid medical practice. The crisis in liberal medicine is measured by the fact that only 5% of young general practitioners plan to practice it after leaving the boarding school. We must satisfy this desire for paid medicine, which is in the air of time. Health centres are a popular tool for multi-professional practice in medicine. Initially open in urban centres, they are being deployed in rural areas. They meet a need and demand. We are investing EUR 10 million a year to help create them, and CNAM is investing EUR 50 million a year to help them operate. I know that many local and regional authorities are committed to promoting them and to salariing doctors themselves. This is a very good response, which we have completed with the creation of positions of paid doctors, funded under the plan for equal access to care in the territories. For example, we have created 400 positions of paid doctors in the sub-dense area. We have already carried out 110 recruitments. If these 400 positions of salaried doctors find themselves taking over, we will renew them. In the coming years, we will propose that health care facilities be able to salarie a physician working – full-time or part-time – in the under-dense area. The Government's policy is to deploy paid medicine, as long as there is a demand for it from health professionals and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u40	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u41	Guyana is the largest medical desert in France. It has nearly twice as many general practitioners and three times as many specialist doctors per capita as the metropolis. Yet these figures do not reflect the reality of the field, because the overwhelming majority of practitioners are concentrated in the agglomeration of Cayenne, the rest of the territory being a medical desert in the medical desert! For every 300,000 inhabitants, we do not even have an embryo of a university hospital centre. However, you made a commitment to open this site in June 2017, Madam Minister. Is he already buried? In order to fill this shortage, we have offered to bring Cuban doctors, who are internationally renowned for the quality of their university training, which has been widely validated by the WHO. Clearly, even though there are no legal obstacles, this possibility being opened by the order of 25 January 2005, the project is blocked. It is certainly not on the Cuban side, where the doctors would be in the starting-blocks, ready to join us, as the Cuban ambassador recently confirmed to me in France. Would it be difficult to look on the side of your ministry? Minister, what answer are you able to give to the patients and citizens of Guyana? Do you have a calendar, a roadmap? [[Smile]] In the meantime, Guyana's hospital centres are over-regime and city medicine cannot absorb the excess of activity, which is necessarily detrimental to the quality of care provided. Thank you in advance for your answer and wish you good health!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u42	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u43	Mr Serville, I know your territory's difficulties in accessing care. I went there to see them for myself, especially in the most remote areas. Article 71 of the Law on the organisation and transformation of the health system broadens the possibilities of recruitment of PADHUE – practitioners with a foreign diploma outside the European Union – and introduces derogations for the territories of Guyana, Martinique, Guadeloupe and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon allowing the recruitment of foreign doctors – I answer you on the question of Cuban doctors. These provisions will apply until 2025, an approximate date from which we hope to see an increase in the number of doctors on French territory. They will replace them by improving them and extending them the provisions of the Ordinance of 25 January 2005 valid for Guyana alone. The recruitment of Cuban doctors could therefore be proposed under the new scheme. The decree implementing Article 71 will shortly be transmitted to the Council of State and published by the end of the first quarter of 2020. I hope I have answered your question in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u44	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u45	Almost six months ago, the Law on the Organization and Transformation of the Health System was passed in Parliament, six months which allowed the practical implementation of measures aimed at reforming health studies, rethinking the provision of care in our territories or making digital technology an additional tool for health professionals. With this law and the plan "my health 2022", we are changing our philosophy. Each health professional must work in cooperation with the actors in their territory. The tools were created, leaving the reins to the professionals concerned in the choice of their organization. Enthusiasm for the territorial health professional communities is a symbol of the willingness of professionals to make coordinated care a success. I would like here to welcome their commitment in this direction in the difficult, sometimes insurmountable, situation experienced by certain territories and which we are seeking to improve both in the city and in the hospital. This change of philosophy is also reflected in the division of labour, which offers the possibility, within a framework which was specified on 29 December last by decree, to supplement the provision of care in the territories. The possibility for pharmacists to deliver medicines under protocol for simple pathologies, such as angina, cystitis or dental pain, is part of this logic. This strong measure of the law, which came into force on 1 January 2020, needs to be specified by regulation, in order to strictly regulate the possibility open to pharmacists, the safety of the patient being the sine qua non condition for the sustainability of this practice. Can you, Madam Minister, provide us with details on the timing of this measure, on the conditions for the prior training of pharmacists, and on how the treating physician should be informed of the correct application of this measure, which is expected to free up medical time and improve access to the care of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u46	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u47	Member, you were the rapporteur of the law: I thank you for your question. Indeed, the cooperation protocols, task delegations and other measures that have been adopted in the law will free up medical time. We estimate, thanks to the measures under way or already implemented, that approximately 6 million consultations have been saved, equivalent to an additional 1200 general practitioners. These measures include influenza vaccination in pharmacies or the completion of rapid diagnostic orientation tests – TROD – angina in the medicine. I recall that 90% of French people live less than ten minutes from a pharmacy. As part of the corresponding pharmacist's device, we will give pharmacists the opportunity to renew prescriptions and adjust the dosage of chronic treatments, in conjunction with the referring physician. This measure will enter into force in the near future, since the implementing text is now the subject of consultation with professional bodies and trade union organisations. As for the possibility for pharmacists to dispense certain medicinal products with compulsory medical prescriptions in a coordinated exercise, the implementing legislation – i.e. the list of medicinal products concerned, as well as the provisions on the conditions for the training of pharmacists – will be published in March 2020. The first pathologies concerned should, subject to the opinion of the High Health Authority, be cystitis and acute throat pain of the adult. The cooperation protocols are being investigated by the HAS on these two pathologies. They are subject to discussion with stakeholders. They cover the conditions for the training of professionals as well as the arrangements for informing patients and for the transmission of information between delegated and delegating professionals. The scheme is therefore expected to be fully operational for these two diseases by the beginning of the second quarter of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u48	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u49	Through the plan "My Health 2022", you courageously carry out the project of an ambitious transformation of our health system – both for city medicine and for the hospital – allowing to organize an optimal coordination of care for liberal medicine and the gradation of care for the hospital. Is it desirable to deal with rare and complex cases in all health facilities, whereas simple cases will not be treated because of a medical demography that is too low? Indeed, the desire to ensure quality care and an adequate response in each territory, to each patient and to each disease requires us to be realistic and pragmatic, as well as to speed up the reorganization of our health facilities. It is therefore necessary to strengthen certain community-based medical activities and to concentrate others in specialized institutions, within the framework of hospital groups in the Territory, as called for by the President during the presentation of the plan "my health 2022" in September 2018. The gradation of care is dictated not by financial requirements, as some would suggest, but by the search for quality care, guided by the principle of good care, at the right time and place. Access to the best care in safety and close proximity to home places the patient at the heart of the health care system. I come from a region, Centre-Val de Loire, deeply affected by medical desertification. The labelling of community hospitals will allow local hospitals, such as Beaugency in my constituency, to expand their care offerings and diversify their activities in order to better adapt to the needs of patients. These community hospitals will be attractive to health professionals, now more established around large hospitals. As we hear in the street the anger and even the distress of health care professionals, this horizon, this goal, this hope must quickly materialize, because 2022 is already tomorrow. Minister, how can we speed up the reorganization of hospitals according to this gradation of care? How can we mobilise overburdened professionals in favour of this reorganization?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u50	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u51	I also welcome your role as rapporteur of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system. I know how interested you are in this subject. We must, in fact, organize hospital medicine according to different levels of recourse, which is called the gradation of care. In this context, community hospitals will render a very great service to the population. The definition of the activities of these community hospitals should make it very attractive for institutions that are now struggling to recruit specialist doctors. Community hospitals will be the first level of gradation of care. They will share missions with city professionals and respond to hospital needs, when entering the hospital, as when returning to the home after a heavy act carried out in a hospital of recourse. To achieve this, we have tools, of course CPTS, which must include community hospitals in their organization. We also need to work on authorizations: surgical authorizations are currently being reviewed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health in collaboration with all relevant professionals. As medicine specializes and becomes more and more technical, authorisations dating back several years need to be reviewed with new techniques, which require very complex trays and very high quality equipment. The reform of authorisations will allow us to reshape the activity by seeking to combine quality and proximity. This is the whole purpose of the ongoing work with the professionals. Finally, the reform of the method of financing will also help us to strengthen local hospitals in their role as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u52	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u53	In recent years, our country has been confronted with medical desertification, which affects mainly rural areas, but now also cities. You face this harsh reality with great courage and determination and we obviously support you in your action. The permanence of care, which is necessary for our citizens, is greatly weakened by desertification and the hospital is also suffering from shock, as shown by the congestion of emergency services and, sometimes, the inability to keep services open during periods of leave. I am thinking, in my department, of the unscheduled care centre in Valognes in Cotentin, where the retirement of two general practitioners a few days ago makes it difficult to take care of many patients, pending the opening, at the end of 2020, of a liberal and outpatient health centre. Community hospitals allow, in one territory, to associate territorial hospital and city medicine for better coordination of care, in particular thanks to the provisions provided for in the plan "my health 2022". The English Channel is also experiencing many difficulties. Its specific geography, in particular the character of the Cotentin peninsula, requires measures to be taken to ensure such coordination in order to adapt the provision of care to a population which is legitimately distressed by these questions. Can you remind us, Madam Minister, of the conditions for the labelling of community hospitals, in order to make them strong bases in our territories? And, given the current difficulties, how can we better ensure the continuity of unscheduled care under the CPTS?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u54	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u55	I remember visiting, with you, in Carentan, a liberal and outpatient health centre. It is, in fact, a valuable tool for strengthening the provision of care. The poles that exist in Normandy are a good prefiguration of the CPTS as I conceive them and the organization of liberal medicine desired by the plan "my health 2022". These structures will be deployed throughout the territory – this is the objective of the CPTS. We have recorded not 200, as I said earlier, but 400 CPTS projects and 50 of them are already active on French territory. Such organizations, which bring together all the actors in the outpatient world, are a good lever for breaking up care. They provide the hospital sector with a unique, well-identified interlocutor with whom partnerships can be forged. Previously, when liberal doctors were dispersed and isolated, cooperation between liberal medicine and hospital medicine was much more complicated. The organisation, financing and governance of community hospitals have been designed to encourage partnership with local actors. Thus, liberal medicine will be represented in the governance of community hospitals. The development, within these hospitals, of a joint exercise city-hospital of proximity of health professionals will allow to introduce continuity in professional practice, thus in the follow-up of patients. Finally, the economic model of community hospitals, which was adopted under the Social Security Financing Act, is intended to be an incentive and win-win model for all parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u56	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u57	You have partly answered my question, which joined Mr. Chassaigne's question about paid medicine and the deployment of doctors with mixed activities. Where are we? You mentioned the figure of 150 out of the 400 posts that were planned. In my department, which remains attractive thanks to the magnificent sites of the country of Verdon, four posts have been opened. I therefore ask myself the question of the publicity given to these positions in the faculties: how are we going to encourage the students who come out of them to come to our territories? I feel like the information doesn't really get to them. The interns in training that my own firm receives are not aware of such practices or opportunities. My second question concerns the deployment of health centres, which are also a way of salariing doctors. Why communities would not have the right, provided, of course, that doctors who engage in their health centres, whether municipal or departmental, participate in the permanence of care, to provide them with assistance in the installation and operation similar to that granted to liberal doctors who settle in subdenses. This could be a path of improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u58	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u59	You are giving me the opportunity, Madam Member, to complete my answer to President Chassaigne. As for health centres, there are now 425 health centres in France: we have created almost 100 health centres in the last two years. Their deployment is therefore effective in the Territory. As for the initiative we have taken in favour of the wage-earnership of doctors, it aims to respond to the demands of the younger generation who wish to wage-earners. We had announced the creation of 400 positions, including 200 for the mixed exercise between the city and the hospital, and 200 general practitioners in the most difficult territories. The wage earner can be insured not only by a hospital, but also by a territorial community. You're asking me how we make these new possibilities known. ARS conducted a very dynamic communication campaign in medical schools. I advise you to visit her on the department's website, which funded her. In particular, it refers to a dedicated digital platform that allows young people to learn about these positions. A campaign has also been conducted in the media, notably in What's up Doc, which is a newspaper widely read by younger generations. I suggest you refer to this campaign, which is very encouraging. Communities also contribute to the dissemination of information. In addition to the action of the ARS, local deputies and elected officials go to the faculties to propose open posts. At present, 110 candidates have been recruited within a few months to fill some of the 400 posts. Of course, we will take stock of that mechanism, which I am currently deploying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u60	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u61	Since the Government's arrival in 2017, we have had a significant legislative arsenal, including various measures to combat medical desertification. They have, of course, been deployed throughout the national territory, but with certain disparities. I am thinking particularly of the overseas countries and territories. In the field of medical desertification, there is also a much lower density than the national average. Two territories are particularly affected: Guyana and Mayotte. Indeed, while the hexagon has about 437 doctors, general practitioners or specialists, per 100,000 inhabitants, Guyana has only 256 and Mayotte 78. The measures proposed to strengthen the supply of urban care – such as doubling, by 2022, the number of multidisciplinary houses and health centres, or the generalisation of telemedicine – face structural obstacles overseas, and especially in Guyana and Mayotte, which are the lack of general practitioners and the digital divide. As for measures to free up medical time and promote cooperation between professionals – such as the use of medical assistants, the strengthening of task delegations, cooperation between health professionals or the increase in the number of community hospitals – they also face a low medical density, particularly as regards La Réunion, a lack of specialists. In other words, overseas countries require a policy of adaptation and differentiation that takes into account their realities. How can we improve the medical density in the overseas countries and promote their attractiveness, particularly that of Guyana and Mayotte? Why not integrate the health sector into the new-generation free zones in these two sub-donor territories? How will you take account of these special needs, and what assessment do you intend to make of public health policies in the overseas countries and territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u63	I know the difficulties of the overseas territories. They have obvious specific health characteristics, whether chronic or vector diseases. We therefore need targeted policies. These territories are also medical deserts. We know that, and we have included in the plan for access to care specific measures for overseas workers who are beginning to bear fruit. Some of these tools are aimed at supporting the installation of young doctors: we offer them a public service contract, which is very popular and is growing, and installation aid contracts, which are deployed voluntarily: eleven doctors were able to benefit from the support of the ARS in Martinique, in deficit areas. In Mayotte, the ARS provides doctors with financial support to cover the costs of their first rent and their move. In addition, 100 positions of doctors in mixed-city-hospital operations were funded. In Guadeloupe, for example, seven recruitments took place within this framework, as well as in Martinique. In the free zones you refer to, all liberal activities are helped. Liberal doctors are, therefore, in the same way as other professionals. We have finally established the health service, which you know: it encourages health students to deploy to the overseas territories, so that future professionals discover these territories. For example, ninety-seven schools in La Réunion and eleven elementary schools in Mayotte benefited from health education interventions during the 2018-2019 academic year. This education is indeed a crucial issue. Finally, we have created a dynamic around coordinated exercise projects. On the island of La Réunion, for example, twelve health homes are in the process of breaking the territory, and three new ones are in the process of being planned. The first CPTSs are organized in all the territories and telemedicine devices allow to respond to problems related to insularity. We also support a large number of projects in these territories, for chronic wounds or diabetic patients, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u64	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u65	In 2020, 148 cantons in our country are without a liberal general practitioner. This alarming finding is the symptom of a medical desertification coupled with a metropolization of the provision of care. We have come to the following situation: we do not train enough doctors and they do not settle where we need them. This reality is further compounded by the closures of maternity hospitals, emergency services and other hospital specialties in rural areas. These disappearances of essential health services are decided by the State, which thus increases medical desertification. As for the reform of the numerus clausus, it seems to have no effect on the medical deserts. It is therefore necessary to propose other strong solutions. While the new possibility of using an assistant doctor in medical deserts should be welcomed, the development of telemedicine seems to be hampering. EHPADs must indeed have the necessary equipment for telemedicine, but do they really have the means to do so? Have they been accompanied enough to meet this imperative? On the other hand, medical desertification cannot be halted if small hospital facilities remain threatened by budget cuts. In my territory, we are concerned about the closure of the emergency room at the Saint-Vallier hospital. The strike movement initiated by hospital staff, who see their resources and the number of their training sites constantly reduced, echoes this concern. I would like to take this opportunity to recall my support for the emergency department at the Hospital of Romans-sur-Isère. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] Can you assure us, Madam Minister, that the state will not aggravate medical desertification by organizing the fall of the public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u66	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u67	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u68	I can assure you that the state is working to strengthen the provision of care in general and the public hospital in particular. There are several errors in your speech, which I am obliged to correct. You said we don't train enough doctors. That was true in the 1990s and 2000s, and we are paying the price today. But this is no longer true since 2005, when the numberrus clausus was more than doubled: we have grown from less than 4000 doctors trained each year to more than 9,000 today, and we will increase the numberrus clausus further. The fruits of this increase, however, will only appear in a few years, and the number of doctors will therefore increase in France only from 2027. But we already train more than twice as many doctors as 20 years ago. You have also pointed out that they do not settle where we wish. That is why we proposed, in the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, a change in the recruitment of young doctors, through the modification of the first year common to health studies – PACES: we will be able to recruit young people who are registered in all territories, especially in more rural areas without a medical faculty, but where young people can enrol in university in other fields. This diversification will help us change the profile of the young people who will settle. You're also talking about service closures. The Ministry of Health has not decided on any closure of services; however, hospitals are struggling today to recruit doctors because the medical demography, especially that of emergency workers, is poor. However, interns are being trained as part of the new emergency doctor's degree and 400 new emergency doctors will be graduated annually starting this year. They will be deployed in the territories and will strengthen the supply of emergency medicine, which will, fortunately, help to avoid the closures of services that you have mentioned. As for the current shortage, it is too late to remedy it: it would have been necessary, in 1999 or 2000, to train emergency doctors. They have not been, but others are now being trained and will settle throughout the country. You finally talked about budget cuts. None will happen, as we have been increasing public hospital budgets since last year, and we will continue to do so for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u69	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u70	I would like to alert you once again, Madam Minister, on an issue that we have often raised together: the situation of the hospital in Auxerre, which now has a deficit of 26 million euros. In accordance with my request, together with the elected representatives of the department and the city, in December you granted him exceptional aid of 5 million euros, which is – and thank you – a breath of oxygen for the hospital's cash flow. However, the structural challenges are immense. Yonne is characterized, like other departments, by a very low medical density: 284 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. At least 30 medical positions are vacant at the hospital in Auxerre, which often has to resort to acting. Most of us have very worrying signs of morbidity, including a number of cancers, strokes, diabetes and infarction that are of particular concern. I am well aware that, under your authority, the hospital is engaged in a restructuring plan, which will be presented in September 2020 to the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Hospital Care – COPERMO. I know that quite strict savings measures are envisaged: 10% of beds have already been closed and we are told that, in total, 112 full-time equivalent positions will have been abolished between 2017 and 2023. Thus, there is an effort to reduce the wing. However, in addition to these financial rationalization measures, which can be understood, what is your vision of the future of the hospital in Auxerre, Madam Minister of Health? What is your vision of the cooperation that the hospital must build – or not – with the other health actors in the department – liberal, medico-social and clinical actors – but also with neighbouring health actors? I am thinking of Troyes, Sens, Paris and, of course, Dijon. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I would very much like to see, beyond the relations that exist with the Director General of the RSA, you, the minister, agree to come in the spring, in a laid manner and outside all the short-term deadlines, to meet local actors and the medical community, in order to explain to them, in a simple and direct way, your vision of the future of the hospital in Auxerre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u71	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u72	Mr President, I am well aware of the difficulties facing the hospital in Auxerre and, more generally, those in your region. During my professional exercise – a long time ago – I was receiving the patients of Auxerre and the region, because we were their reference centre in Paris. In the 1990s, however, we were already contemplating a delay in the diagnosis of these populations, which rarely go to the doctor, or only when they are already very ill. There is therefore, beyond medical desertification, an issue of health education. But your territory, it's true, is in trouble. The hospital in Auxerre has been experiencing a deterioration in its financial balance for several years, with a large deficit of 5.5% of its budget. Tax and social debts are settled, but this cannot be sustained. Like other institutions, it is therefore involved in a restructuring plan. Unfortunately, his medical attraction is insufficient; Partnerships are, in my view, a good way to strengthen it, including through shared positions with university hospitals in the region, for example. The medical intervention that the hospital has to resort to results in this large budget deficit. The recovery of one third of the total hospital debt, which we have announced, will of course benefit the hospital in Auxerre, for which it will be a breath of oxygen. We also support its cash flow through the ARS for €5 million in 2019. Finally, we have planned to help the institution regain its budgetary balance, in particular by reinvesting in new technologies. The hospital in Auxerre is, in fact, a hospital of recourse in the Yonne: it is a place that it must keep, in order to meet the needs of the Icauna population, in a manner graduated with the other structures of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u73	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u74	Like many territories, Oise is not spared by medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u75	Yes, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u76	I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the decision of the RSA to finally review its medical cartography after a very strong mobilisation of local practitioners. In the face of an ever-increasing phenomenon, communities are mobilizing to overcome the state's staggering disengagement, which is reflected in, among other things, the weakening of community hospitals. I am thinking, for example, not only of the Oise santé plan of the Oise departmental council, but also and above all of all of all of the municipalities which create health centres or rehabilitate premises, at the cost of very heavy investments, which sometimes weigh very heavily on communal finances. However, once the work was completed, a worrying problem remained: the absence of doctors wishing to settle there. This recruitment problem is recurrent in many municipalities. This is the case in my riding of Bury. In this context, I had, during the examination of the last health law, tabled an amendment proposing to include in the third cycle of medical students' schooling a compulsory internship in the underfunded territories. Although it may have been imperfect, there had been a definite and transparant interest in the scheme. Therefore, it has been amended by the Senate and incorporated into the final version of the text, which I welcome. Indeed, without calling into question the freedom of installation to which I am attached, because the constraint cannot lead to a sustainable installation, it will allow us to create vocations while actually fighting against medical desertification and responding to this search for personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u77	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So my question is simple: can you confirm to me that this measure will be implemented quickly and effectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u79	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u80	There is, Mr President, not a weakening of local hospitals but, on the contrary, a strengthening, thanks to a more comprehensive budget adapted to the population. It's the opposite of what's been going on so far. We have also taken various steps. In particular, we want to free up medical time to allow for enhanced cooperation between professionals. For this reason, medical assistants, who will represent considerable assistance for the latter, are deployed in the Territory. We also encourage the development of digital technology. The employment of salaried general practitioners, who share their time between the city and the hospital, is also an interesting solution. The development of internships and the measure adopted in the Act on the organization and transformation of the health system are indeed an effective and pragmatic first response to the territorial emergency. However, we face an obstacle: the too small number of general practitioners who agree to be trainee teachers, which takes time. This is why their remuneration has been increased to 900 euros per month. A working group has been set up to accelerate the momentum and increase the number of teachers – which increased by 17% from 2018 to 2019. We are pursuing our incentive policy. Finally, I would like to remind you that since 2018 I have set up a monthly aid of 200 euros for interns who engage in internships in the sub-dense zone. I would like this aid to be upgraded and its eligibility criteria simplified in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u81	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u82	As we know, medical desertification is a unfortunately well-established problem in many communes, especially in rural communities. Access to care is made increasingly difficult by the gradual closure of doctors' offices. During the review of the last health law, various solutions were proposed to combat this desertification, such as the introduction of a mandatory six-month rural internship for medical students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u83	[[Smile]] That's me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u84	However, this obligation did not please the protagonists, who strongly opposed this proposal. As you know, the distribution of health homes in our territory is uneven for various reasons. In some attractive regions, it is the practitioners themselves – doctors, pharmacists or nurses – who decide to come together to create a health path, while other territories struggle to keep doctors and welcome new ones, as the region is considered unattractive. It is in the latter that the role of local authorities and elected officials is very important. Indeed, thanks to collaboration between health authorities, local authorities and elected representatives, a real sustainable and concrete project can be created, in order to create a health home that meets the specific needs of the territory and the basin of life. The main result of this project will be to drive a new dynamic and, thus, to make the region attractive by keeping the health professionals already present, while offering the opportunity to welcome new doctors, whether they are holders or in training. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, what are you proposing to foster collaboration between local communities, elected representatives and health professionals? How do you think you can help, in a simple way, the financing of health care homes, whether it is public or private, and whether or not the RSA is at the origin of their creation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u85	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u86	Thank you, honourable Member, for giving me the opportunity to highlight the important role of elected representatives in the attractiveness of a territory; But the elect can't do anything alone. All these projects of health homes led only by elected officials, which are only empty shells, have shown this. Elected officials, professionals and RSAs must have a common space for discussion; In my view, the preferred tool for this purpose, and conceived as such in the law, is local health contracts. They must form the framework for dialogue, and I want to give them a new strength in 2020. We must support the creation of multi-professional health homes. For the past two years, I have been working on simplification for project promoters, who will be better accompanied by the ARS. In order to remove all technical and tax obstacles, there is a one-stop shop bringing together the CPAM – the primary health insurance fund – and the ARS, to facilitate the installation of a new doctor in a territory. RHAs spend EUR 10 million each year to help start up these multi-professional health homes, in particular through feasibility studies of the various projects. When local elected officials come together instead of competing with others, they are able to recruit doctors. Thus the Aveyron, which was an area where the shortage of doctors was crying, experienced a very special dynamic that allowed it to get out of medical desertification. Elected and communities must work together to attract doctors: we no longer have the means to play against each other; we need coordinated and collective projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u87	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u88	One of the main axes of the "My Health 2022" strategy, launched in 2018, is the reduction of inequalities in access to care. In some territories, many French people find it difficult to consult a general practitioner, which can lead to unnecessary congestion of emergency services, which must be reserved for more serious pathologies. The same applies to specialists: waiting times are very often several months. One of the answers given by the "my health 2022" plan to the challenge of medical desertification is the pooling of skills and the grouping of professionals into comprehensive care structures, such as homes or health centres. Isolated exercise in medicine must become an exception. The aim is also to attract more young doctors, especially in rural areas. These difficulties of access to care are particularly encountered in my department, the Vendée, and are even a major issue of territorial networking. While the national average is 1 generalist for 1200 inhabitants, it stands at 1 for 1600 in Vendée. It takes three months to wait for an MRI, and radios are treated remotely by the Nantes CHU following the departure of several specialists. I was even told that there are almost no dermatologists left. Such a situation is not acceptable to patients or to the remaining professionals, who find themselves overloaded. This is why the department, which wants to attract new doctors, is experimenting with the creation of an innovative health centre, with a view to relieving the doctors already installed. The department, the city of La Roche-sur-Yon and the hospital centre also have plans to create a medical student house, in order to attract interns – this, in my opinion, is an excellent idea. However, the room for manoeuvre of local actors is limited, where responsibility is in principle the responsibility of the State. I would therefore like to know how the plan "my health 2022" is operationally available, in order to allow for the optimal care of all French people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u89	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u90	You express here the emoluments of local elected officials who encounter difficulties in ensuring access to the care of their fellow citizens. This is a national reality that the Vendée does not escape. The latest law on health offers a large number of tools to combat medical desertification, including all those that will enable young doctors to train in rural areas, with strong incentives and internship obligations in under-dense areas. The Vendée organises, in a very dynamic way, the emergence of the CPTS: five projects are currently being developed, supported by the ARS. In addition, local elected officials now have a guide: Access to health care: the practical guide for elected officials, which details all the tools available to them to accompany this dynamic – even if the state does not take over any responsibility. The idea of a house for internship students is obviously very good: such a structure will be a considerable asset for a territory. We now have all the protocols for delegation of tasks, which will save medical time to the doctors installed, as well as the positions of medical assistants. Many doctors are taking advantage of these new tools, in order to receive more patients, or at least to offer better quality care. Local health contracts and the role played by elected representatives in all decision-making bodies will finally enable local elected representatives to better participate in the organisation of territorial networking and the provision of care, particularly in the case of hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u91	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u92	The Act of 26 January 2016 to modernize our health care system recognizes the advanced practice for the nursing profession. France thus joins several other countries that have already developed this practice. This is a major innovation for our health system and a concrete response, among others, to medical desertification that affects many of our departments, including mine, the Cher. Advanced practice aims to improve access to care and the quality of patients' journeys, while reducing the workload of physicians on targeted pathologies. It promotes the diversification of the practice of paramedical professionals and leads to the development of skills towards a high level of master's degree equivalent to the university degree of master's degree. The International Council of Nurses states that "the graduate nurse practising in advanced practice has acquired theoretical knowledge, know-how in complex decision-making, as well as clinical skills necessary for advanced practice in his or her profession." On Tuesday, October 15, 2019, in a question-and-answer session with the Government, you replied to Mr.Jérôme Lambert: "The remuneration will be [...] up to their expectations". The index grid contained in the first decree provides, at the first step, for a monthly remuneration of 1750 euros net without guarantee of the resumption of seniority. The nurses concerned, whose career path is at least eight years old, are not valued by such remuneration, which seems to be too low. They may refuse to earn less than they earn as Liberal nurses. Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take to improve the recognition of graduate nurses in advanced practice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u93	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u94	Thank you for your question, Mrs Essayan. It gives me the opportunity to say how much I wished for the advent and growth of the nursing profession in advanced practice – IPA. The file was, as you know, scalded in the department for more than fifteen years, primarily because it was difficult to agree on what could be covered by advanced practice. I wanted the API measures to come into effect. The first IPAs will complete their training in 2020. I want to deploy these new jobs very widely in the future. The IPAs will follow a two-year training course. The RSAs will be able to provide financial support for the start-up of studies. I'm going to pay them. I wanted a statutory recognition: a body of medical auxiliaries in advanced practice will be created; It will be positioned, in the architecture of the bodies, between that of the specialized nurses and that of the health executives. The corresponding draft texts were presented for consultation in the fall to the Supreme Council of the Hospital Public Service. Their publication will take place at the end of the first quarter. While it is true that hospital IPAs will receive pay at the beginning of their careers fairly close to that of a conventional nurse, the compensation grids adopted then provide for a significantly stronger and faster career progression. Their monthly remuneration, including compensation, is expected to be around 3300 euros gross in mid-career and 4100 euros gross at the end of the career – the pay gap between an IPA and a conventional nurse will then be around 600 euros gross. As for the proposed lump sum remuneration for liberal IPAs, it can hardly be compared with the remuneration for liberal nurses. If we consider a full-time 35 hours a week, full-time APIs could earn around 3200 euros net per month – and not gross, unlike the salary received at the public hospital – which does not seem unreasonable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u95	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u96	Madam Minister, I also wish to draw your attention to medical desertification, a well-known problem that hinders the proper functioning of the territories and weighs on local communities. According to a survey published last November, nearly one in two general practitioners refuse new patients, nationally. In my region, the Hauts-de-France, which is ranked last in our country in all health statistics, the proportion reaches 59%. If many patients are no longer followed by their attending physician, others may lose their own. Because of a lack of doctors, the patients go to the hospital. It is unnecessary to recall that these facilities are already overloaded, often by patients with minor pathologies. Local authorities have taken steps to address the problem: towns, towns and villages now make medical homes available and even finance part of their operating costs. I will cite two concrete examples in my territory. Mont-Bernanchon, a village of 1360 inhabitants, took advantage of the closure of a café adjacent to the town hall to install a health home – in reality, we would need both! As for the community of communes Flanders Lys, it will soon be in its ninth multidisciplinary health home. After having financed their construction, it participates in the operating budget of each of them, to the tune of 300 000 euros. You had also inaugurated the seventh, Madam Minister. However, is it up to the communities to draw on their budgets to fund a national health policy? What, moreover, will buildings be worth if we do not have human skills? Voted last July, the abolition of the numerus clausus is a first response from the presidential majority. Nevertheless, you have recalled, it will take about ten years to see these new doctors arrive. The many financial aids for the installation of general practitioners are another solution. However, according to Virginie Suau, president of NorAGJIR – the autonomous regrouping of young settled generalists and replacements from the Nord and Pas-de-Calais – young doctors do not necessarily know them, they are often too disparate, and the installation is still too restrictive for new graduates, who are forced to carry out most of their internships in hospitals in large cities. Madam Minister, in what way and within what time frame will the measures adopted under both the "My Health 2022" Act, passed last year, and the latest social security financing laws, allow for the initiation of a dynamic incentive and facilitation, ensuring that all young graduates in desertification-stricken territories are installed under the best conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u97	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u98	I know your investment in this area, Mrs. Deprez-Audebert. In September 2018, I visited the Alloeu medical home in your constituency. Thirty-four territorial occupational health communities are expected to emerge soon in the Hauts-de-France. They are accompanied by the ARS. In their missions, there is an obligation to find a treating physician for all patients in the territory, and this is taken into account in their health insurance funding. This is the beginning of a response, and it is not the only initiative we are taking to combat medical desertification. As we know, the establishment of a liberal sector does not attract the support of young doctors. That is why we have developed the paid exercise. To begin with, we have created 400 positions of general practitioners employed by hospitals and local and regional authorities. Of course, if the device finds its audience, if I may say so, we will be able to continue its deployment next year. In addition, we develop public service contracts – CEPA – under which medical students receive a grant equivalent to the SMIC and then have to settle in a sub-dense territory for the same period as they received their grant. This is a considerable asset for these territories. Since 2016, doctors have been settling in subdenses. Since the creation of the CESP, 3,300 students have entered into such a contract with the health insurance. During the same period, 1100 young doctors signed a contract for a territorial practitioner of general medicine – PTMG. We also use many tools to free up medical time. I am thinking of medical assistants, task delegations and new professions, such as nursing in advanced practice. All these measures, which bring with them hope, are intended to improve access to care in the subdenses. Their representatives stress the need for this every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u99	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u100	Medical desertification and its implications for access to care are disillusioning our fellow citizens. In order to provide a response, the Socialist and Related Group has tabled several bills aimed at creating a mechanism for regulating the installation of doctors by means of selective agreements. This would avoid phenomena of medical concentration and would ensure a better territorial distribution of the provision of care. While many political groups and doctors themselves agree on the need to introduce such a measure, you are stubbornly refusing to do so, Madam Minister. However, action is urgently needed. In Sarthe – many other departments are experiencing a similar situation – the ratio is about 60 general practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants, knowing that many practitioners are already old enough to retire. The provision of care is most precarious in certain specialties, particularly in emergency medicine. I have already alerted you, Madam Minister, about the emergency department of the Sarthe-et-Loir health centre, located in my constituency: it had to close the night for three weeks and it was only possible to reopen it to the detriment of the mobile emergency and resuscitation service – SMUR – which remains suspended. Sarthe is currently facing a very serious situation. I would like to draw your attention to the closure, since 1 January, of the paediatric resuscitation service of the hospital in Le Mans. The reason for this is, once again, difficulties in recruitment. As a result, children between the ages of three months and fifteen years can no longer be cared for in an adapted resuscitation unit in the Sarthe. They must be transferred to Angers, Nantes or Tours, or even to Paris. If it continues without prompt recruitment, the closure of this service may jeopardize the status of maternity level 3, which allows it to take care of very high-risk pregnancies and the birth of very preterm babies. I would therefore like to encourage you, Madam Minister, to take immediate action, without waiting for hypothetical changes in several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u101	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u102	There is no stubborn refusal on my part, Mrs. Tolmont. It must be noted that oppositions always advocate coercive settlement measures but never put them in place when they come to power. And it's not because of the action of medical lobbies, as some suggest, but because everyone knows they're not working. I would remind you of the arguments that have been put forward in favour of them. First, all countries that have put in place such facility restraints have renounced them because of windfall effects that significantly affect their effectiveness, including deportation to intermediate areas or to medical specialties other than general medicine. This failure was noted by all my counterparts at the G7 meeting I organised in Paris last May on the subject of medical desertification. Secondly, it is difficult to agree that there would now be over-density zones which would not benefit from the installation of general practitioners. In the field of general medicine, all of France is, in a way, in a subdense zone; the problem affects the entire territory. Third, a selective agreement would result in circumvention effects, with a resumption of hospital practice or paid exercise, as well as deconventions that would lead to the emergence of a two-speed medicine. Indeed, the French have such a need to access the care they are willing to pay without being reimbursed. It is a medicine that we do not want, and I am sure the Socialist Party does not want more. Finally, some give up the practice of medicine: 25 per cent of newly graduated doctors, regardless of their specialization, do not enrol in the order of doctors and do not practise in the fields of care. We must make the practice of medicine attractive, by means of incentives. Selective bargaining is not a good measure. I could go back to the numbers that show it. We have advocated other solutions, which are very encouraging, including coordination. This reflection is on the point, today, of bearing fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u103	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u104	The figures of the Order of Physicians, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DREES – and the Institute of Research and Documentation in Health Economics – IRDES – all call for the same observation: medical desertification continues to progress in our country. This is particularly true in the less well-equipped territories, where incentive tools are not enough to attract new doctors. A report by the Court of Auditors had already shown that the numerous incentives available to health insurance and the State had failed to sufficiently combat territorial disparities in health. The responsibility for the proper distribution of physicians in the territory lies with you, minister. However, you are indeed insisting on rejecting the territorial arrangements that we propose to combat medical desertification, even though your measures to reduce contributions for doctors are ineffective. Do I have to remind you that in 2007 France had nearly 100,000 regular general practitioners, compared to 88,000 today? According to the projections of the National Medical Council, this decline is expected to increase in the next ten years, despite the provisions of the "My Health 2022" Act; It should therefore continue well beyond 2025. In my constituency, the situation is getting worse. In Saint-Gaudens, the number of doctors has been halved since 2015, and their average age is 62. Yet they do not spare their efforts. I congratulate our doctors on their work and thank them for their commitment. Given the limitations inherent in your incentives, Minister, better regulation of physician installation is essential and urgent. There's still time to act. We renew to you our proposal for a territorialized agreement, which would encourage the installation of doctors in the sub-donored areas. My question is very simple: how do you intend to guarantee equal access to care for all French people, since the measures you have taken do not bear fruit?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u105	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u106	We have this discussion regularly and it must be noted that my predecessor did not introduce selective agreement: we know that it is effective for professions with high demographics, such as nurses or midwives, but not for those with low demographics – you have recalled the figures for doctors. We inherit a situation that is the result of decisions taken in the 1990s, the catastrophic consequences of which are known to us: fewer than 400 doctors trained each year for twenty years. We must therefore encourage doctors who are likely to retire to practice longer, while waiting for generations formed since 2005 to settle down. In order to do this, we have promoted job-retirement cumulation, deploring contributions up to seven times more than they were – so we have made considerable efforts. Pending an increase in the number of doctors, we have a duty to go beyond the only policy of incentivising installation; The strategy that guides the transformation of the health system is therefore aimed at increasing the medical time available. Disaggregating the shortage is not the only solution. This is to enable doctors to focus on the actions that underpin their added value, avoiding them from performing acts that may be performed by other professionals. I would like to point out that in comparison with other European countries suffering like ours from medical desertification, we have a chance: other healthcare professionals are experiencing a strong demographic; We can rely on pharmacists, nurses, midwives to relieve doctors of certain acts. Germany, for example, which also does not have nurses, cannot use this solution. We therefore open up the exercise and encourage cooperation between professionals through health centres and health centres; we delegate tasks, in particular through the development of advanced nursing practices; we develop digital in the context of shared medical records and telemedicine. We also help doctors recover medical time by unburdening them with administrative tasks through the use of medical assistants. Everything must be done to regain medical time: it is in this sense that we are acting today, in order to restore confidence to health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u107	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u108	If a department is particularly affected by medical desertification, it is indeed the Seine-et-Marne, where I am elected, since it is ranked 97th out of 101 at national level for the number of generalists reported to the population. According to UFC-Que choix, 86% of general practitioners refuse new patients. They are therefore turning to emergency services, which are saturated due in particular to small numbers of staff. The Grand Hôpital de l'Est francilien almost closed its paediatric emergency services at the end of 2019, due to a lack of staff. Our department, like so many others, is also affected by specialists. Although the population has increased by almost 5 per cent in five years, the number of dermatologists has decreased by almost 40 per cent in eight years and the number of gynaecologists by 24 per cent. This is likely to worsen, as practitioners over the age of 60 are the majority in many specialties. Various measures had been adopted to combat that scourge, such as scholarships for young doctors and tax and social exemptions; however, they had not yet had the desired effect. The "My Health 2022" plan provides for new mechanisms to combat medical deserts, including support for the creation of health homes. This is a good measure, since it has the merit of being effective – provided that it is applied in consultation with elected officials and practitioners. Similarly, the removal of the numerus clausus, which you have had the courage to decide, should allow the increase in the number of doctors in the underserved areas. However, its effects will only begin to be visible in about ten years. Minister, if these measures are welcome, our situation, which has been worsening for years, requires immediate responses. Do you not think that it is, above all, through a genuine policy of support and accompaniment to the local elected representatives, the cornerstone of the fight against medical deserts, that this problem can be solved?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u109	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u110	The local elected representatives are indeed the cornerstone of this struggle, because they know the needs of their territory and can therefore promote the coordination of arrangements. In the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, we have therefore promoted local health contracts, as a tool for dialogue between local elected officials, RSA and professionals with a view to organizing territorial networking. The involvement of local elected representatives is essential, whether it is to finance certain projects of houses or health centres, to develop medical courses in their territory and to allow for the proper reception of students – in medicine, physiotherapy or pharmacy – or to deploy telemedicine at the regional level. More and more local elected officials are opting for the financing and establishment of local or territorial public health centres, with support from the Government and RHAs. We have also created 400 positions of salaried general practitioners, either by local authorities or by hospitals, and a wave of 200 additional posts is foreseen within the framework of the Government's rural agenda. In recent months, I have wanted to reshape the dialogue: at national level, through the creation of a contact group between local elected representatives and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and, at local level, through the creation of new bodies enabling the SRAs to report on the action taken in the territory. Finally, there is a practical guide for local elected officials, which I have already mentioned and which lists all the tools and good practices concerning homes and health centres and liberal medicine. It was designed in collaboration with my department and with the Department of Territorial Cohesion and Relations, led by Jacqueline Gourault. I would like to amplify this momentum, in particular by proactively relaunching the local health contracts that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u111	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u112	Increasing medical desertification threatens equal access to care and spares no territory. In the face of this alarming finding and in the absence of national coordination to remedy the medical divide, everyone tried to seize the problem of the organization of care in the territory. Health insurance aids, new medical conventions, demographic contracts, zoning reviews have all been attempts at margin decisions, which have not been able to stem the problem of the distribution of access to care and the problem of the overall number of doctors. The degree of gravity calls for strong measures, linked to the realities and needs of the territories. If we do not solve this problem, we will not be able to combat the territorial divides and we will leave territories to abandon. The plan "my health 2022" proposes, among other things, the development of telemedicine: a good idea. However, how can we ensure it in the white areas, which are also the first victims of shortages of doctors? In the territory of Vosges, this shortage also affects emergency services, which have no choice but to resort to medical temporary assistance. The "My Health 2022" plan also addresses it through dissuasive measures. The interim puts certain hospitals at risk: the Remiremont hospital, for example, is against his will perfused by the medical interim, without which his services will close. Minister, we owe it to the French to be more courageous and to ensure access to care everywhere. We need to be more coercive: our young graduates must contribute to this by exercising in under-funded areas two, three or five years after graduation. We must adapt to the public interest and public health. Minister, what do you intend to do in addition to the "My Health 2022" plan to bring physicians closer to patients?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u113	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u114	Mr President, let me repeat what I said earlier. The problem of medical desertification is now global. As part of the G7 in Paris in May, I organized a meeting with my counterparts to discuss it. We have all considered this to be a public health issue, as the global health crisis is important – it is true of all the countries of Europe, and France is not spared. This situation is the result not only of bad choices, in particular the definition of a clausus numerus far too weak about twenty years ago, but also of the ageing of the population, accompanied by an explosion, if I may say, of chronic pathologies – which is why we favour the delegation of tasks and the monitoring of chronic pathologies by other healthcare professionals. France has, unlike other countries, a very good territorial network of other health professions, capable of ensuring their share of the mission – provided that the French accept it and get used to these new practices. In these circumstances, telemedicine is a tool of considerable assistance, provided that it is operated within a territorial framework, by a doctor who knows the networking of local professionals and the patient's file – I am fundamentally opposed to a consumer telemedicine consisting of calling a site possibly located in another country. We are developing local telemedicine, but you are right: France's high-speed plan must be developed as a matter of priority in the white areas, so that all French people can access the telemedicine. With regard to the medical interim, the emergency plan for the public hospital contains strong measures. We reaffirm our commitment to actively combat this deviance: they are in fact professionals who resign from the public hospital to act in an acting capacity – they work less and are better paid – which contributes to the lack of attractiveness of many local hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u115	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u116	I would like to draw your attention to ubiquitous but serious situations for patients and doctors practising in medical deserts. They are caused by prescription restrictions and over-procolization of care, especially in rural areas. The prescribing prerogatives of general practitioners are steadily decreasing, even though they are encouraged to keep patients at home as much as possible. This leads to abracadabrant situations, for example in palliative care – I would like to cite the example of midazolam more precisely. This palliative care medication is reserved for hospital use; however, situations involving home care require the use of a home hospital structure – HAD – which is not available everywhere. Limiting certain treatments to specialties and immediately removing the general practitioner leads to serious inequalities in access to care: if you live in the city, you will have a less painful end of life than if you live in isolated rural areas. In addition, there are criminal consequences for the physician who, under Hippocrates' oath, tried to reduce the pain of a patient placed in palliative care at home, in the absence of a available HAD structure. I am thinking in particular of Dr Méheut-Ferron d'Angerville-la-Martel in Normandy, who was banned from practising medicine by the Attorney-General. These situations show how important it is to act quickly. There must be flexibility to ensure access to care without territorial discrimination, while at the same time protecting a profession of general practitioners whose vocation is necessarily undermined by the unfair risks involved. What leads could you propose in order to get out of protocoling to the extreme of care? Should we not have an administrative simplification committee, along the lines of those conducted under previous governments, with fairly good results?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u117	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u118	Of course, I will not comment on an ongoing legal action and I will therefore not judge the facts concerning the two general practitioners you are referring to. The prescription of this molecule by city medicine is now framed for two reasons: on the one hand, it is a very powerful benzodiazepine, with the side effects you can imagine. Its use therefore requires appropriate training: it is a guarantee of safety for patients. On the other hand, the possibility to follow palliative care in the city is framed: these can be provided through the HAD or by mobile palliative care teams. Why? Because all professional organizations, the High Health Authority and scholarly societies, recommend that palliative care be the subject of a collegial decision. A liberal doctor in the city alone cannot guarantee the collegiality of the decision. That is why I want urgent work to be carried out in order to frame, secure and guarantee patients access to palliative care in outpatients and to the specialties now prescribed without marketing authorisation – MAH – and used in the deep and continuous sedation, provided for by the law creating new rights for patients and people at the end of life, known as the Claeys-Leonetti law. This work will be linked with the finalization of the recommendation of good practice on palliative drug management, issued by the High Health Authority, and will have to be carried out in line with the construction of the new plan for the development of palliative care – particularly in ambulatory care – which I call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u119	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u120	All the questions have been asked and you have provided answers, Minister. As far as telemedicine is concerned, I can see the drawbacks that it may entail, given the experience of video conferencing in the justice sector. A lawyer isn't defending a TV! Such a practice dehumanizes the profession. I'm afraid the same is true for telemedicine. Can you reassure us on this point? Of course, I also measure the interest of telemedicine in many places where medicine is deserted. You are aware that the situation in the Oise – as elsewhere in France – is catastrophic. A mayor had even issued an order prohibiting death in his commune, as it took six hours to find a doctor who agreed to certify a death. We know the reasons for medical desertification, and I am aware that you are really trying to act and provide for everything that has not been done for decades. Could we change the method of calculating the presence of doctors in the territory, so that it better corresponds to the reality of the field? How, moreover, can doctors be helped to settle in? Their increased presence would alleviate the problems currently faced by hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u121	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u122	There are a lot of questions in your speech. With regard to death certificates, we have opened the possibility in the law on the organization and transformation of the health system to have the death recorded by an intern in medicine or by a retired doctor. For this purpose, they are paid up to EUR 100 per intervention. It is an incentive to encourage them to engage and help the mayors, whose disarray I understand. On the other hand, I think that medicine must escape from commodification. Today I see a major offensive by telemedicine companies, which offer services which, in my view, consume medicine as I see it – I am thinking, in particular, of the society which issues sick judgments, against which, as I recall, we have brought a legal action. Beyond this issue, telemedicine must be part of a coordinated care path. For this reason, teleconsultation is only reimbursed by health insurance when performed by a doctor known to the territory, in a coordinated exercise, or by a treating doctor. We also support the development of teleconsultations carried out by nurses or pharmacists: these devices are now planned and funded. We are gradually opening up possibilities for telecare. It must deploy, but provided that it remains anchored in the territory, so that in case of emergency or need, the patient can be redirected to specialists by a doctor who knows the territorial mesh. I am absolutely opposed to telemedicine sites, sometimes located abroad, which offer a merchant-type service. It's not my conception of medicine. Finally, I should like to touch on a point which I have not mentioned in answering the previous questions and which, however, is part of the fight against medical desertification: the education of the population. I am struck by the number of our fellow citizens who do not honor their appointments. At Cochin Hospital, for example, about 20% of consultations are not honoured, so it is hundreds of schedules that could be released each month for those waiting for an appointment. We must therefore also educate the public about the need to preserve medical time, and I believe that we are not talking enough about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u123	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u124	I therefore take advantage of my reply to your speech, Madam Member, to express my desire to question all French people on this subject which is part of medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u125	The question-and-answer session on the effectiveness of measures taken to combat medical desertification has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, the next debate on the Hercule project is scheduled to take place at 11.15 a.m. It will be held in the Lamartine Hall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u126	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u127	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u128	The next item is the debate on the Hercule project, requested by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. At the latter's request, this debate is held in the Lamartine Hall, in order to allow the Assembly to hear from outside personalities. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. It will begin with a round table, in the presence of the invited personalities, lasting about one hour. In a second sequence, which also lasts one hour, the Government, after an introductory intervention, will answer questions from the deputies. The duration of questions and answers shall not exceed two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Christophe Carval, Executive Director of the EDF Group, in charge of the Human Resources Directorate, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to present to you, as you invite me to do, a summary of how EDF deals with the subject of interest to us this morning. As the President of the company Jean-Bernard Lévy had the opportunity to say in May and last December before the Committee on Economic Affairs of your assembly, the subject of the organisation of EDF is not dissociable from the general framework of energy policy as defined by the State, that is, by the Energy and Climate Act voted by Parliament most recently. This framework sets out a number of priorities, first and foremost carbon neutrality by 2050. In order to achieve this carbon neutrality, the public forecasts, notably the SNBC, the national low-carbon strategy, and the PPE, the multi-annual energy programming, all predict that there will be a need for a more energy-efficient economy and less carbon-intensive energy consumption than today, hence less fossil fuels, oil and gas and more electricity, with the latter already decarbonised to 95 % in France. This generation of electricity, initially stable and growing in a second, will have to be ensured with a balanced mix between nuclear and renewable. EDF is naturally part of this legal framework and the company's experts have widely shared its fundamentals for several years. It will therefore be necessary for EDF to maintain a very high level of investment in nuclear energy to ensure the operation of part of the existing fleet beyond 40 years, while closing 14 reactors by 2035 with the objective of achieving 50% nuclear production on this horizon, as foreseen by the EPP, the rest being produced by renewables. We will also have to further develop our investments in this renewable sector, which is already growing strongly in the EDF group with the Solar Plan, the wind turbine, the large offshore farms, and also, of course, continue to develop the hydraulics, which has the great merit of being non-carbonated and pilotable, as in La Coche, where we have just invested 150 million euros to increase the power of the existing installation by 20%. The EDF Group must also continue to invest in services linked to the new uses of electricity that will allow this decarbonisation of the economy – I am thinking in particular of smart grids and charging infrastructures for electric vehicles, on which the EDF Group is already very present through its various specialized subsidiaries, including IZIVIA. As you can see, EDF is mobilizing to help achieve the ambitions of the EPP. To succeed in this challenge, there are several conditions. The first condition of success for EDF is the fair remuneration of the capital invested in the nuclear production tool. EDF needs structural reform of nuclear regulation, ARENH or regulated access to historical nuclear energy. The revision of nuclear regulation is one of the projects that the President of the Republic opened in his November 2018 speech on energy policy. This regulation is now asymmetrical and unfair, with a megawatt hour price that has not been revised for almost ten years and a transfer of value to EDF's private competitors. It is a system in which EDF is never a winner and carries all the risks. It is therefore essential to reform it thoroughly in order to replace it with a balanced arrangement, which recognises that the nuclear fleet is rendering a service of general economic interest and which provides fair remuneration to the existing fleet, in which a ceiling price would protect consumers from too much market price increases, in order to enable them to enjoy the competitiveness of the existing nuclear fleet, and a floor price would protect the industrial producer from too low price periods which, coupled as we experienced a few years ago, led EDF to have to divest in a few years EUR 10 billion of assets and the State to inject almost EUR 8 billion of additional capital into EDF, which, in neither case, is sustainable. The Government is leading the discussion on this subject with the European Commission, and this is our first priority today. The President of the Republic and the Government also asked EDF to consider organizing the group's assets to ensure EDF's full contribution to the energy transition. What, in essence, is the purpose of this reflection that we are carrying out at the request of the Government? It is a matter of responding to a simple observation: changing the French energy model to cope with the climate emergency requires very important investments. EDF calls for the financial means to play a leading role in the energy transition to carbon neutrality. Through this reflection on the organisation we are educating, we want to increase the investment level of the group, already very high, of the order of EUR 15 billion per year, particularly in the field of renewable energies, including hydraulics, networks and energy efficiency. What we intend to do is to make every year, after this reform, some EUR 2 billion more investment than today – to benefit from an additional EUR 10 billion over five years. When we get to know the new regulation of nuclear production, we will be able to make specific proposals on how best to organize our assets in order to be able to invest more. It is therefore a project of growth – of development, to be more precise – and of response to the climate emergency. Our objective, in our reflections, is to assess the organization that would allow each of our major trades to benefit from the maximum sources of funding under the best conditions, and thus to have the best means to develop. In order to combine this ambition of growth with a vision of responsible industrial actors, the reflections that we have conducted and shared throughout 2019 with trade union organisations would distinguish, within an integrated group, on the one hand, the activities focused on the energy transition at the service of customers, which we designate by "Green" convention, and on the other hand, the activities around centralized production, which we have called "Blue". If there is a reorganization, it would in no way lead to split the group. It is even considered that it should respect two fundamentals: the integrated nature of the group and the maintenance of the status of its employees. In the same way, it seems to us essential that employees continue to be able to move from one entity to another in the group, whether it is filialised or not, as is already the case between EDF SA and Enedis, for example. Similarly, the integrated nature of the group should be reflected in different ways: in terms of strategic ambition, the "Blue" and "Green" parts of the company would pursue the same mission to offer their customers the means to decarbonize their lifestyle, thereby creating a common "raison d'être" for all employees in the group. Management principles would continue to be homogeneous and the concept of an integrated group requires the definition and implementation of a "social pact" common to all employees of the company. But all this would make sense only in the context of a previously reformed regulation: EDF's nuclear power, efficient, pilotable, low carbon, must be paid at its fair value. Without prior reform of the ARENH, there is no justification for the evolution of EDF's organisation. This would not be enough to achieve the level of investment required for the energy transition. However, the President of EDF cannot submit organizational proposals to the Government until the situation of nuclear regulation is clarified. The legal aspects cannot be clarified today, as the state must conduct in-depth discussions with the new European Commission. We have decided to use these few months of lag before the completion of this Hercule project to deepen the consultation with the social partners. The group's employees expressed strong concerns about the Hercule project in the fall of 2019 and we believe that this project should continue to be discussed and shared with employees and staff representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u130	I call Mr François Dos Santos, representative of FNME-CGT.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u131	On behalf of the FNME-CGT, I will mention the issues raised by the Hercule project, which we can ask ourselves whether it is the right solution to the structural problems in the electricity sector. We thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for giving us the opportunity to do so, because we do not think this is a matter of corporate negotiation: it is a project that engages the country and the representatives you are. What is the current situation? In France, EDF delivers low-carbon electricity at one of the cheapest prices in Europe, thus ensuring security of supply, combating energy insecurity and preserving the competitiveness of companies – objectives enshrined in the energy code. Electricity has a particular characteristic: it does not store. It requires equipment designed in the long term, which is not subject to any sudden closures linked to the perpetencies of an economic war that is modestly called competition. This is why the FNME-CGT considers that more precautions should be taken when deciding to change the organisation of this sector. The Hercules project could be summarized as two topics: price regulation in the wholesale market on the one hand, and division on the other. We understand that this project is the result of a pact between the President of the Republic and EDF. EDF is committed to ensuring that its assets are properly remunerated – this is the part of regulation – while Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, was already advocating in 2016 for a reorganization of assets – this is the part of division. From a regulatory point of view, electricity has been trading since 2003 on a stock exchange with significant volatility. The price of energy, measured in megawatt hours, has fluctuated sharply: schematically, it amounted to 70 euros per megawatt hour at the beginning of the decade, reached a low of 35 to 40 euros in 2016, and is now close to 50 euros. These variations therefore range from simple to double, whereas they are always the same energy and their cost of production is relatively stable. When its prices are significantly and sustainably low, a rational economic player closes its plant. It is not EDF's choice that, although it is not invested in security of supply in France, assumes this responsibility by attachment to the public service. This market effect was aggravated by ARENH, which is equivalent to a subsidy granted by EDF to its competitors. Such a system has two consequences: not only is EDF forced to sell 25% of its nuclear power production to its own competitors at a favourable price, but this price serves as a benchmark for determining EDF's selling prices to its own customers. This results in a form of an overall cap on EDF's income of 42 euros per megawatt hour. This unique facility in the world has been established pending EDF's competitors building their own power plants; It had the exact opposite effect. EDF's intention is to introduce a floor price, and reciprocally a ceiling price, on the electricity exchange. A very schematic increase of 3 euros in wholesale prices represents 1 billion euros in additional gross operating surplus for EDF – a sum that could, depending on the management choices, be allocated either to the investment, to the debt relief or to the payment of dividends. It goes without saying that if the shareholder State intends, as in the past, to reapply for a dividend distribution of EUR 2 billion per year, this regulation will only have been used to finance the State, not EDF's industrial tool. In all cases, it remains to be seen whether the European Commission would accept such a mechanism and validate the agreed floor and ceiling. The real issue is the financing of the new nuclear power plant, which is not concerned with the Hercule project, nor with the floor and ceiling price mechanism that I have just described. The stakes are large: this would amount to €3 billion a year over 15 years for six EPRs in France. I'm going to the split. The Hercules project aims to split EDF into two entities, Blue and Green. Blue would retain nuclear and thermal production – the hydraulic status remains ambiguous – while Green would recover the rest of the activities. The result would be a simple distinction: Blue, mostly public, would continue to carry long-term investments such as nuclear and hydraulics, while Green would recover entities whose revenues are fully guaranteed and fast: Enedis, which benefits from the tariff for the use of public electricity networks, negotiated every four years; Dalkia, which is primarily responsible for managing public service delegations; EDF renewables, which essentially manages subsidized photovoltaic or wind energy contracts over 20 years; and finally EDF's activity in overseas and Corsica, which enjoys a monopoly position. Green would be easily privatisable – it is currently about 35% of capital – and could generate appetites, since almost all of its revenues would be guaranteed by the state, such as Paris airports or motorway companies. Importantly, the marketing of electricity would be the responsibility of Green, which means that Blue's production, on public investments, would ultimately be pooled to the benefit of all suppliers. In other words, EDF would no longer have the right to be both wholesaler and retailer. When EDF's commercial management wants electricity, it will not be given priority over its own production vis-à-vis Total, Leclerc or Eni. Contrary to EDF's announcement, it is not a question of abolishing the ARENH, but of making 100% of EDF Bleu's production available to all suppliers, who have not participated more in the financing of the plants, let alone their future decommissioning. Some argue that there is consistency between Blue for upstream, centralized, and Green activities for downstream activities and services. I would like to point out that Green is not a company, but a holding company. Enedis is subject to legal obligations of independence, while EDF, operating in a regulated area, is subject to separate accounting. As for Dalkia, he could not offer bundled offers with EDF, which occupies a dominant position in supply: this could be considered an abuse of a dominant position. Green therefore constitutes above all a sum of very lucrative companies, and not a coherent industrial set that can generate significant synergies. In short, the FNME-CGT sees this issue not only as a very imperfect correction of market wanderings, but also as a pure and simple dismemberment of EDF, subject to strictly financial considerations. The only players who see an interest in it are the business banks, which speculate on the potential capital gains of such an operation. Everyone will have observed that the country's electrical equipment, energy prices and improvement of the public service are the great absences of this project. Before launching an energy big-bang, the FNME-CGT expects the public authorities to take stock of the twenty years of deregulation of the energy sector. The parliamentarians you are can impose such a study.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u132	Christophe Ramaux, lecturer in economics at the University of Paris 1 and researcher at the Centre d'économie de la Sorbonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u133	I will open my remarks with some framing elements. The evolution of EDF's status raises three questions: first of all industrial policy, since the investments considered often extend over the very long term; Secondly, because of the price of electricity – a strong return in the debate last summer – and territorial equalisation, energy insecurity – a major element of social insecurity in Germany, for example, but not in France – and environmental policy. In the latter area, three parameters can be used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The first of these parameters is economic growth, expressed by the evolution of GDP – gross domestic product. Economists use three methods of calculating it, all leading to the same result: GDP is a sum of added values, considered from the point of view of demand and income. However, if GDP retracts or slows down its rate of growth, distributed revenues decrease mechanically. This prospect seems inconceivable at the time of the debate on the future of pensions and the maintenance of the purchasing power of employees. The decline is not playable in terms of social progress. There are two other parameters: reducing the energy intensity of GDP and reducing the carbon intensity of energy. They assume to electrify energy, while decarbonizing it. From this point of view, EDF has a major asset: historical nuclear production. Today, 75% of final energy consumption is carbonised, the remaining 25% being electricity. The challenge is therefore to decarbonize the 75% share, which means deploying a vast electrification plan in transport, but also in housing, where the favor has long been given to gas – to the detriment of the climate. What energy mix to consider for the future? The necessary development of renewable energy comes up against a technical difficulty which all specialists point out: we still do not know how to store electricity in an industrial way. In this respect, no relevant solution is likely to emerge by ten, twenty, or even thirty years. Indeed, the path of renewable energy is only viable if other sources of energy complement each other, namely nuclear, coal or gas. Note that in Germany, where nuclear energy is abandoned in favour of coal in addition to renewable energies, the greenhouse gas content of kilowatt-hours is ten times higher than that of France. In such a context, how can we analyse the industrial project that underlies Hercule? As an economist, I believe that the least I can do would be to draw up a rigorous assessment of ARENH. This responsibility is necessary if the general interest is to be safeguarded. What did ARENH do for you? ARENH was introduced primarily to encourage alternative suppliers to invest in electricity generation. However, its record is overwhelming: it has obviously been used, first and foremost, to finance alternative operators. In other words, EDF financed Total and other suppliers. From the point of view of the general interest and the energy transition, I do not think it is positive. A serious assessment of the cost of demutualization should also be carried out. In the light of the general interest, of citizens and of energy consumers, has the multiplication of operators proved relevant, with its corollary of the multiplication of costs? The electricity sector combines the three criteria that justify exiting from a market economy: externalities – pollution in particular – the character of the collective good and increasing returns on scale. This is also true of a neoclassical approach to the economy, which is not exactly mine – I am a Keynesian instead. The prediction that ARENH could only lead to exorbitant additional costs was thus realized. I also wonder about the split envisaged by the Hercule project. It is primarily aimed at encouraging investment, we are told. I remain perplexed: how would the split between EDF Vert and EDF Bleu promote investment? The risk, already mentioned by Mr Dos Santos, is that this split will lead to a widespread ARENH. While it now covers only 25% of historical nuclear production, ARENH could cover the entire production tomorrow – a calamitous perspective from the point of view of the general interest. The outlook on nuclear power has changed in recent years as a result of climate issues, and I welcome that. Climate challenges should lead the Government to abandon its "small-week" negotiating strategy in its various discussions, including with the European Union. The Government should affirm that, under the climate objective, electricity production is of major general interest and that, as such, France decides to exempt electricity generation and distribution from a competitive logic which clearly runs counter to the investment logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u135	European texts allow this to some extent. In particular, this position could be announced in a national debate. It is by keeping this course that we will overcome the investment challenges we face. Let us guard against the overly common propensity to overestimate investment in this area. We continue to hear that EDF is facing a huge investment wall, just as the spectre of deficit and debt are agitated to justify fiscal austerity plans. In this case, the level of investment should be relativised. The big carenage, estimated at something like 50 billion euros, is quite profitable. It is always necessary to relate debt to the economic activity of the company over several decades. On the other hand, what is true is that if one finds itself in a purely financial logic, in the short term, debt is a problem. I think we need to get out of this short-term financial logic, in particular in order to be able to make the necessary investments, for example as regards curing or relaunching the nuclear programme – if the Flamanville prototype is more expensive, what is the problem? In order to make the renewable energy sector a service, it is necessary to complete the project of constructing six additional EPRs, in particular in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy is only viable if there are complementary sources of energy, which is not the case today – except in the form of coal or gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u136	We are done with the opening presentations of the guests and can therefore move on to the questions. The first will be put forward by Mr Sébastien Jumel, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, who is at the initiative of this debate. I invite all those who wish to participate in the round table to register; Each question will be immediately followed by its answer, so that the debate is as smooth as possible. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u137	First of all, I thank the speakers for the quality of their comments and for having responded to the invitation of the Communist Group. EDF is a national history, the fruit of a compromise, that of the programme of the National Council of Resistance, which offered the country the opportunity to master its energy destiny and guarantee its sovereignty. France has historically been able to acquire a strong tool: a joint venture, at the service of the supply of electricity – which is not a commodity like the others, but is a common good. This has made it possible, through planning, to ensure access to energy for all. You recalled: France today benefits from one of the least expensive energy productions in the world – especially compared to its German neighbour – at a cost four times lower than the European average. The quality of this production, the low cost of energy, its lower environmental impact, we owe them – I would like to say on behalf of the Communist Group – to the work, the expertise, the intelligence of thousands of EDF agents. However, every day more, whether through the Folz report, which denounces the chronic underinvestment within the company, whose employees suffer the consequences, or with the revelation of the Hercule project, contempt for this incomparable industrial tool seems to remain the leitmotif of EDF's management strategy – forgive me for telling you, Mr. Executive Director – and the Government. Can a project of this importance be negotiated in the backs of the French, in the closed doors of an office, between the Elysée and the European Commission, leaving national representation in the wind? In asking the question, we give the answer: from our point of view, no, of course. That is why, after bringing the subject to the public square when François de Rugy was minister, we are now making it a subject of debate. We need to clarify what this Hercules project means for the EDF company, for the employees and for the company as a whole. My first set of questions will be addressed to Mr Dos Santos. What are the risks associated with such a project that employees and trade unions have been able to identify? While EDF's marketing branch now has more than 8,500 employees, what is the future for these agents in a cut-off group? What threats does the Hercule project pose, including in terms of territorial networking, to employees? Second set of questions. My conviction is that the split of the EDF company between Blue and Green will bring the wolf into the sheepfold; This wolf is the shareholder logic, and the sheepfold is – in particular – production. Is shareholder logic compatible with the imperative need to ensure, as in our eyes, a high level of maintenance, a high level of safety, a high level of qualification in order to maintain an energy mix? Do you think that the cutting of the EDF company can alter the quality of the service rendered to the user?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u138	Mr François Dos Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u139	Mr President, you say that all this is being negotiated behind the backs of the French: we fully agree with you. Unfortunately, it is the same language elements or about the same ones that have been repeated for six months. Clearly, there is a lot going on, but nothing can be seen in the public discourse; We do not know exactly what is happening to the European Commission or the Elysée. Personally, I think it would be essential for the minister to give you concrete explanations about what the administrations are working on today – because they are undeniably working on something. We regret this lack of transparency. You know the constraints that may be imposed on employees by the financialization of certain activities and by bringing minority shareholders into an entity. Moreover, since EDF Bleu and EDF Vert will not have exactly the same shareholders, the interests of the minority shareholders of each entity may be contradictory. That is a problem. What is certain is that when one divides an object into several parts, one takes the risk of weakening each of them, according to the economic situation. With regard to EDF Bleu, it is certain that, most of its nuclear activity, the question of the future of EDF Bleu will be decisive for the survival of the company. If new reactors are not put into service in France, this is tantamount to explaining to EDF Bleu that it will be a defeat structure, which will no longer have any activity by 2050. As for EDF Vert, I see it as a threat mainly to the trade leadership. It is known that many taxes are included in electricity prices. There is the price of energy itself, which corresponds to the production and to what is related to the network, the tariff for the use of public electricity networks, the TURPE: this represents about 95% of the price per kilowatt hour. This price is the same regardless of the electricity supplier. The remaining 5% correspond to the cost of customer advisors, sellers, people who manage invoices, information systems, etc. It is a social dumping machine: as everything is played out on 5%, to be cheaper than the neighbour, it is necessary to contract the costs, for example by setting up the call centre in Lisbon, Cameroon or Senegal or doing everything online by the customer. There are no 150 solutions to be competitive! The EDF model, with its 5000 customer advisors in France and dedicated advisors to discuss with the social worker and precarious audiences, has no future in a totally liberalized context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u140	Mr Christophe Carval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u141	I fully agree with what Mr Dos Santos has just said: the future of Blue society, whose activity will focus on production, particularly nuclear, will undoubtedly depend on the possibility of renewing the nuclear industry, in particular in order to maintain the attractiveness of society and the skills of society on a sustainable basis. You referred to the Folz report, Mr President: we have suffered from a lack of continuity in the conduct of projects and we see the consequences that this can have, either internally or among the providers, on skills: it is difficult to maintain skills at a high level if we do not have a long-term industrial vision for an activity. Concerns were raised that could affect EDF's marketing teams. As Mr Dos Santos pointed out, they are all located in France, which is not the case for many of our competitors. However, the fact that EDF is now considered to be a dominant player already obliges it to market the kilowatt hour on the basis of its price in the wholesale market; In other words, the EDF marketer does not currently benefit, even if its production and marketing activities are integrated, from any particular advantage or condition for the purchase of the electricity it is responsible for reselling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u142	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u143	EDF is, in its own sense, a national asset – although its stock market valuation has evolved significantly, from EUR 150 billion in 2007 to EUR 50 billion today. This represents, with nearly EUR 30 billion, the largest participation of the State Equity Agency – EPA. It is obvious that it is important for us to understand the development of the Hercules project. But we are somewhat in a state of blur. On September 17, I interviewed the Minister of Economy and Finance, who had told me that we had to wait until we heard about Mr Lévy's proposals. However, it turns out that Mr Lévy's proposals had already been presented to the trade unions, put on the public square and published on Top Management in the spring. Anyway. The question will again be put to the Government. What I would like the Executive Director to tell us is whether the company has submitted a preliminary draft to the Directorate-General for Competition in Brussels. Have discussions started with the European Commission? Trade union organisations ensure this. I'd like to hear what EDF management has to say about this. On the other hand, it is clearly a highly financial project. In November, before the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs, Jean-Bernard Lévy made it very clear that the command of the President of the Republic was to optimize the management of assets and liabilities. You yourself said: the challenge is to find new resources. Very well; But, as a result, we would like to know what advice – external advice, such as banks – EDF has come together to develop this project. You don't juggle billions like that, playing Meccano!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u144	Mr Christophe Carval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u145	I will answer the two questions successively. First, was a preliminary draft submitted by the company in Brussels? In fact, that is not the way it is. A first dossier, concerning the evolution of ARENH, is the subject of a discussion between the Government and the European Commission. There is therefore a project currently under discussion at European level, but it concerns the replacement of the ARENH by another mechanism, with a price "corridor". I imagine that the European Commission is going to ask for counterparts, but this negotiation is a matter for the public authorities. On the other hand, there is the project that you mentioned: the President of the Republic has asked the President and CEO of EDF, Mr.Jean-Bernard Lévy, to make proposals to him in this regard, with a deadline that was originally set at the end of 2019. Jean-Bernard Lévy wished to inform staff representatives of the progress of his reflections; He therefore presented milestones in January, March and June. As much less rapid progress was made on the issue of regulation, it was not possible for President Jean-Bernard Lévy to deliver his copy to the Government at the end of 2019. What is envisaged today is to have a document that will be completed by the summer of 2020. What I can tell you is that, to date, this document has not been submitted to either Brussels or even the Government, since it has not yet been completed. Moreover, following the concerns that emerged among the employees in September and October, Jean-Bernard Lévy met with the trade union organisations and proposed to them to start a consultation in the first months of 2020 in order to identify the main subjects of concern and debate in order to discuss them together before finalising the document – finalisation which is unlikely to take place before mid-2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u146	Thank you, Mr. Carval. I will ask you to be more concise in the answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u147	I didn't get an answer to my second question, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u148	Yes, it is. Go on, Mr. Carval.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u149	As far as the financial aspects are concerned, all I can say is that in my personal capacity, I do not know any business bank that has intervened in the case, but that this part is being worked on in conjunction with the representatives of the State, in particular those of the EPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u150	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u151	Thank you, Mr. President; Thank you to EDF for providing us with electricity for more than fifty years, and thank you to the Communist Group for this debate. I campaign for transparency, and we are in our role in seeking it. In this case, I do not mean "scission", but "filialization". We can, of course, always hide back-thinking behind filialization. What interests me is that we live in an extremely complex world, where the notion of public service evolves. It is therefore quite clever to distinguish the areas of public service that will remain extremely sensitive, those of Blue, from areas already competitive and where the public service is less obvious. I will take a simple example: you cited Dalkia, Mr. Dos Santos, as historically part of EDF. Of course, that's not what you said, but that's what those who listen to us could hear. Dalkia, whom I know well, was created by an individual entrepreneur, and she belonged to the private sector for 60 years before joining EDF ten years ago. So some of Dalkia's trades are less at the heart of the public service than others, which I'm going to talk about now. I understand that there is a willingness to bring public resources where the issue is strongly linked to public service, to reassure the public, and to seek the participation of partners in areas where public service is not so clearly essential. In this respect, the example of the network seems interesting to me: according to what I have read, TEN must be in Blue, but what will be done with storage? Many people say that the network's trades, both those that ensure its power and those related to its maintenance, must be supported by the storage trades. The longer the time will pass, the more the maintenance of the transport network will require industrial storage solutions that do not yet exist, apart from the hydraulics, and that we will discover; and the more these solutions will be intended to be managed by the network. Again, where are we planning to place them, since RTE will be in Blue and Enedis in Green?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u152	Mr François Dos Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u153	I used the name "public service delegation" about Dalkia because it is a legal status: Dalkia manages public service delegations for heat networks. Of course, this term does not mean that Dalkia has been a member of the EDF group since 1946. Furthermore, Mr Carval referred earlier to the issue of regulation; We consider that there is no need to cut the box in half to regulate the electricity market. To echo the previous question, we can find a little strange how EDF is proceeding, which puts the split counterpart on the table while negotiations with the European Commission have not begun. To answer your question, Mr RTE is a financial contribution and not an industrial asset of EDF: it has been housed in the dedicated assets to cover future decommissioning costs. In addition, the European directives include an obligation to increase the independence of TEN, to the point that EDF, the parent company, today has no management power over TEN. It is therefore a financial contribution intended to cover the future dismantling, and that is why TEN was maintained in Blue, not in accordance with an industrial logic. Finally, on the subject of public control and public service, I would like to point out that the electricity distribution system operator, the operator responsible for the marketing of regulated sales tariffs, the production, distribution and marketing activities of which EDF holds the monopoly overseas and in Corsica are located in Green. So you will understand that I do not necessarily appreciate the scope of public service in the same way as you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u154	Mr Christophe Carval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u155	As Mr Ramaux has said, there is still no industrial storage solution that can effectively compensate for the variability of renewable energies; This is one of the reasons why we have to keep a very pilotable park, for a significant volume. There is a bit of storage linked to the concept of system services for the transmission and distribution network, but the whole decentralized part of the storage will be a priori in Green, for example to accompany customer solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u156	We have about ten minutes left to devote, for this first part, to the speeches of Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, Mr François-Michel Lambert, and finally Mr André Chassaigne. I urge you to provide concise answers. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u157	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for allowing us this debate, and the three speakers for enlightening us on Hercules, the reorganization project called for by the Elysée, which seems essentially driven by the search for economic balance and not by an industrial perspective. This project seems to me to be partially or totally questioning the integrated character of EDF, which has demonstrated its effectiveness since its inception. Bringing together the production, distribution and network within the same entity guaranteed a real public electricity service, as well as a tariff equalization to which we are extremely attached, since electricity has become a basic commodity. Hence my first question: can you assure us that the coherence of the French electrical system will not be destroyed by the Hercule project? As far as ARENH is concerned, many of us believe that we have reached the end of this model. Without regulatory reform, no reorganization is possible, as it would not give EDF the financial means to invest in the ecological transition. The ARENH no longer makes any sense; It unfairly capped EDF's revenues, and its creation did not lead alternative suppliers to invest in the means of production. Did you receive any assurances that this reform would be completed before the Hercules project was implemented? Furthermore, what will happen to Enedis concessions to communities, while the Government envisages a regionalization of the electricity distribution system, merged with the gas networks? In this scheme, in which EDF's regulated activities are opened up to the private sector, how can we ensure the coherence of centralised production with decentralised production, when we know that the guarantee of decentralised production is ensured by centralised production, which itself needs decentralised production? Finally, the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Prime Minister have announced their intention to "find a way with the European Commission not to compete with hydro-electric concessions", which will be integrated into EDF blue, thus in the public pole. Do you think that the Hercules project will definitely close the door to this competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u158	Mr Christophe Carval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u159	To answer your first question, honourable Member, we are extremely committed to tariff equalization and thus to the distributive monopoly, which is consubstantial to her. You said that the reform of the ARENH was essential, and that without its transformation no reorganization would be sufficient or interesting. That's exactly our position. The proposed reorganization of the group's assets would not be relevant if it were not preceded by a profound questioning of the ARENH, which will help to secure the company's financing arrangements. Realising the assets would not be sufficient to identify the means for the investments needed to meet the expectations of the EPP. Finally, we agree with you that hydraulics will become more and more important. Beyond its ability to produce state-of-the-art decarbonated energy, it has an essential management dimension for all water uses in the context of climate change. This dimension is taken into account by EDF. We are therefore not seeking, if I may say so, a competition for concessions; we would fully satisfy ourselves with alternative solutions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u160	Does the Hercules project allow it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u161	... and our hope, by placing these concessions in Blue, is to facilitate such solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u162	Mr François Dos Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u163	First, it is regulation that allows economic balance, not division in itself; We therefore wonder why this kind of alliance of carp and rabbit, this mixture of two eminently distinct subjects, is the reason. [[Smile]] Secondly, it is not that the ARENH no longer makes sense, but that it has never had any. At the time of the Champsaur report, when the introduction of such a device was envisaged, EDF's alternative suppliers were already abandoning the construction of combined gas cycles, in this case. In other words, the ARENH was vitiated from the start. In my trade union federation, we're quiet: we went on strike against this thing, when EDF was in favour. Now everyone agrees with us. We'd have to pay back. Finally, we heard our appropriate minister consider a quasi-regime status for hydroelectric activities. Such a status would require, if I may say so, a strong sealing of these activities, and will surely lead to the creation of a third company between Blue and Green. EDF's dismemberment is therefore on track.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u164	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u165	The Liberties and Territories Group essentially has a territorial approach, and out of conviction the point of view of ecological urgency. After Mr Ramaux's speech, among other things, it seems to me that this project is much more focused on the requirements of the European Union than on the issues I have just mentioned. The territories are at risk of being crushed; As regards the environmental and climate emergency, this has not been specifically addressed at any time. Rather, it would be the urgent need to pay some shareholders. [[Smile]] Mr President, let me remind you that Hercules, or Heracles, was the son of Zeus, that is, Jupiter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u166	All right! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u167	He went mad and, in his delusion, killed his own children. For fear of killing ours, we could have chosen another patronage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u168	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr Lambert, for this point of mythology. Mr Christophe Ramaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u169	The opening up of the electricity sector to competition was organised by the European Commission, mainly in the early 1990s, in line with the Single European Act of 1986. These provisions were then extended and clarified throughout the 1990s and 2000s. For a government concerned with the general interest, it would be quite possible to argue that the context has changed. The climate challenge, perceived with new intensity, has become a priority; change of priority, change of software, register, organisation of the sector. The general ecological interest is a good compass: it could justify going back to what had been accepted, rightly or wrongly, since these measures were already debated at the time. We're facing a lock. If we give in to the orders of the ultraliberals in Brussels, who want to offer the competition the historic production of EDF for affordable prices, everything goes on. When I say that everything goes on, I include the risk that the necessary investments will not be made: indeed, this split leads to the transfer of nuggets – starting with Enedis – that could be useful in financing EDF Bleu's investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u170	And for the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u171	And for the territories, you're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u172	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u173	There has been a lot of talk about dismantling or stripping about EDF Blue; Personally, I would talk about stretching, or even a possibility of drying up. Whether it takes place through a rent intended to extinguish itself with the end of the life of the reactors, or whether it is achieved by the transfer of part of the dams to competition, as the European Commission asks, I imagine a scenario to German, where the great electricians had housed their coal activity in a structure of defeat. I see the evidence in the abandonment of basic research, particularly in the nuclear sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u175	These include the abandonment of the fourth-generation Astrid reactor project...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u176	That's good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u177	... and the lack of research on molten salt reactors – with thorium – and on small modular reactors, as if the choice had been made to suppress the nuclear industry and dry up EDF Bleu.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u178	Mr Christophe Carval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u179	The words I made earlier are in the same spirit as those of Mr Chassaigne. We believe that we must at all costs prevent EDF Bleu from becoming a mere society of defeat, whose sole purpose would be to lose weight as the reactors of the old plants shut down. We need to re-open the way for the country to have a sustainable panel of non-carbonated pilotable energy solutions: the EPR reactors, of course, but also the research that you mentioned on small modular reactors and on Astrid. This is the condition for the sustainable maintenance of industrial skills and the ability of France to remain at the cutting edge of technology, for itself as well as for its export sector. Above all, research and development in these areas should not be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u180	However, this is the case with Astrid's abandonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u181	On behalf of the National Assembly, I thank our three guests for their participation in our work. The first part of the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u182	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u183	The meeting was resumed. The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u184	The debate that brings us together today is deeply linked to France's ecological and energy transition. In the coming days, we will launch the public consultation on multi-annual energy programming and the national low-carbon strategy. You know, for having voted recently, that these two documents aim at the same goal: to reduce by at least 40% our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, with carbon neutrality in 2050. The search for carbon neutrality has two consequences for our energy policy. On the one hand, we will have to significantly reduce our energy consumption by 2050, and on the other hand, we will have to completely decarbonize energy production. To achieve this, three vectors are possible: heat from the environment, i.e. geothermal and heat pumps; biomass, the deposit of which is necessarily limited; Finally, decarbonated electricity. We are not leaving anything, since our electric mix is already largely decarbonized thanks to nuclear production – which accounts for 72% of our mix – and renewable energies, including hydropower. But we can't leave it there. That is why we have the dual objective, in the medium term, to increase the share of renewable energy to 40% of the mix by 2030 and to reduce the share of nuclear energy to 50% by 2035. The diversification of the electric mix has many consequences for EDF. On the one hand, in order to enable the generation of renewable energy resources to rise, EDF must continue to operate the nuclear power plant at the age of 50 and, above all, reduce the share of nuclear energy to 50%. This means, in practice, closing 14 reactors. This is a major transition that we will accompany, both for the territories and for the employees, in connection with the company. The closure of the two Fessenheim reactors this year will be an opportunity to demonstrate this. On the other hand, EDF must confirm its place at the heart of renewable energy production. I am thinking of hydropower, which accounts for 12.5% of our electricity production, and wind energy at sea where the group is already present, with four of the seven parks allocated; For solar power, the company has proposed an ambitious plan that targets 30 gigawatts of installed power by 2035. The diversification of electricity generation and consumption also has consequences for the grids. TEN, the electricity transmission network, has recently published its 10-year development plan: €33 billion will have to be invested in the next 15 years to renovate the networks, adapt them, digitise them, increase their interconnections and finally connect wind at sea. For distribution, the challenges are the integration of new means of production, wind or solar, and the integration of new uses, first and foremost electric mobility. To meet this new reality, Enedis' investments will increase by 5.8% in 2020 compared to 2018. Decarbonizing our energy mix, diversifying our electricity sources and integrating them, responding to new uses: these are major issues for EDF and for the future of the group. These challenges are all priorities for the Government's action, which intends to implement the energy and electricity transition of our country. This implies that EDF, the sector's leading player, has increased investment capacities to be at the forefront of the energy transition in all its components. It is in this context that the Government has asked the president of EDF to make proposals for the evolution of the organization of the group, which will have to be submitted in the first half of 2020. I stress this: the project will have to maintain a public and integrated enterprise. It will also have to take into account the feedback from the consultation carried out within the company with the social body. Finally, it will have to take into account the new framework for the regulation of historic nuclear power, because it is another project just as important for the energy transition of our country. With the new regulation, our goal is twofold. First, to protect consumers from rising electricity prices. Since they contributed to the financing of the historic nuclear park, they financed a carbon-free production tool; It is therefore legitimate to protect them from the volatility of oil, coal and gas prices. Our second objective is to secure the necessary investments for the production stock in the event of a fall in prices. In order to achieve these two objectives, we have engaged, at European level, in discussions on this new regulation of historic nuclear power and I myself met Commissioner Vestager in November to present the project to him. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a shared goal: to succeed in our country's ecological transition and achieve carbon neutrality in the middle of the century. Success depends on our country's energy transition and, let us say, its electrical transition. To do this, we need EDF's involvement. We need the company to have an appropriate organization to be together to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u185	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u186	Minister, we wanted to organize this debate because we believe that the future of EDF cannot escape national representation. In addition to 20 years of deregulation, there is the urgency of climate change and the goals we have set ourselves in terms of carbon neutrality. Are you committed to taking stock of twenty years of liberal energy policy? In this project of split-up, of stripping EDF, are you going to choose the competition to the detriment of the future and the market to the detriment of a fair development? You are about to cut EDF and repaint in blue a public capital pole that will bear the nuclear debt and in green a partially privatized block that will have the mission of managing the transition to new energies. Through this brutal division, profitable activities will be transferred to private interests, and the public authorities will be responsible for unprofitable activities – the fate of which, moreover, appears increasingly unclear in the light of your various statements and the absence of a strategy of the Government. On these points, we therefore need answers. How will the Hercules project be managed? Do you have a calendar? What are the real objectives for EDF? What future is planned for employees, whose number exceeds 150000? How many indirect jobs are affected by this project? No information was provided to employees, except by the press. Is it normal for a public enterprise which has participated in the development of our country to be thus despised and its fate played out in the antechnocratic chambers, with a series of technocratic debates and negotiations between the offices of the Elysée and those of the European Commission? What are you going to do with the public electricity service? Is the service provided to French users, already affected by the liberal forward flight, not likely to deteriorate further – I am thinking in particular of the right to energy – as a result of the cutting that you are considering? These are some of our first questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u187	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u188	I hear very caricatural comments here. However, the Government is playing its part in proposing an energy strategy, which, I would remind you, is to contribute, through our energy production methods, to the major objective of combating climate change. Electricity will have a very important role to play tomorrow and must be completely decarbonized: this is the framework set by the Government. This requires ambitious actions by EDF, both to extend the duration of operation of the nuclear power plants in the historic park to 50 years, to develop renewable energies and to adapt networks. These actions fall within the framework of the Government's energy policy, which, I would remind you, has been the subject of a vote by Parliament under the Energy and Climate Act. Moreover, as I have already said, our objective is to protect French consumers from the volatility of fossil energy prices and to protect the operator of the historic nuclear park, EDF, from the risk of low prices which would deprive him of his ability to invest and maintain the historic nuclear park. That is the framework set by the Government. It is then up to the management of the company to propose an organisation that meets these objectives, in consultation, of course, with the trade union organisations, an approach that was initiated by the President and CEO of EDF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u189	Mrs. Barbara Pompili has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u190	I would like to associate my colleague Émilie Cariou, a member of the Committee on Finance and the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Options, with my question, who is also concerned about the financial and transparency issues of the national electrician. After the restructuring of Areva and the many shortcomings of the nuclear industry and in the context of a sharp slowdown in the nuclear industry around the world, EDF is now studying a new organisation to separate two entities, EDF Bleu and EDF Vert. In addition to the objectives of adapting networks and developing renewable energies, EDF and its nuclear fleet are now facing many challenges, which have been exposed. The amount of debt currently stands at EUR 37 billion, to which tens of billions of euro of bond debt must be added. Some consider these to be negligible amounts; I'm not. The overall costs of the Hinkley Point and Flamanville RPRs have been increased to EUR 24 billion and EUR 12.5 billion respectively, raising the question of funding. The cost of the work on the main carenage was initially estimated at EUR 55 billion by EDF; the Court of Auditors estimates that it will be necessary to double this amount, bringing it to EUR 100 billion. Experience has shown that French estimates of dismantling expenditure are far below those proposed abroad, which account for about double the cost. It should be remembered that, over the next twenty years, the fifty-eight reactors will have to be dismantled. In its July 2019 report on the end of the nuclear fuel cycle, the Court of Auditors also recalled the urgent need to update the cost estimates of the Cigeo project – the industrial geological storage centre – which range between 25 and 70 billion euros. Similarly, the Court points out that it is urgent to reassess the relevance of certain industrial strategies, such as fuel recycling. Before any evolution of EDF, it is therefore essential to carry out an exhaustive assessment of its situation, which has an impact on public finances, and therefore on our citizens. Is it planned to update the financial assessments of the cost of the issues faced by EDF? If so, what is the deadline? Moreover, at the time of the balance sheet of this financial situation, which can be described as catastrophic, it is imperative to question: how could this plan of division and this takeover by the State improve the management of our nuclear fleet?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u191	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u192	The situation of EDF is naturally the subject of a regular evaluation and reporting process throughout the year, with frequent follow-up by the Board of Directors and the implementation of medium-term plans, updated annually, over a three-year period. The State is involved in this follow-up, within the framework of corporate governance, both as a majority shareholder and as Commissioner of the Government. An audit committee is also responsible for monitoring financial reporting processes. As far as the current financial situation is concerned, we must refrain from making alarmist remarks. The Group's turnover for the first nine months of 2019 was around EUR 60 billion, up from the same period in 2018. The Group's debt is indeed significant – net financial debt amounted to €37.4 billion in June 2019 – and its control is a major issue. In addition, very large investments are planned. The evolution of the cost of new nuclear facilities projects at Flamanville and Hinkley Point is a major issue. The Government therefore undertook a mission, entrusted to Jean-Martin Folz. Yesterday we discussed its conclusions and the action plan it proposes. As far as networks are concerned, I have already mentioned the very large amount of investment schemes. The CRE – Energy Regulatory Commission – determines the level of the tariff for the use of public electricity networks, taking them into account. As for the work of the large carenage, their cost was reduced by almost 20 per cent. Finally, as far as the future decommissioning of power plants is concerned, EDF has dedicated provisions, as you know. The financial situation of the group is therefore well monitored and the Government is attentive to it. The group has thus been recapitalised to the tune of EUR 4 billion, including 3 billion from the State; the choice was made to pay €5 billion of dividends not in cash, but in shares. In short, I can assure you that we are very attentive to the group's financial situation, particularly its debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u193	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u194	Madam Minister, your remarks today are in line with those made yesterday. This game of bonnet – your specialty – is to make it look like your motivations are ecological, when in reality they are only financial. We've seen it in the inconstancy of your choices for the Fessenheim power plant or for RTE. Your choice to push for interconnection is also motivated by a logic that is absolutely not industrial, but financial. It notes the end of an integrated EDF model. Let us also recall the previous events. Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy of Manuel Valls, under the presidency of François Hollande, promised that the sale of Alstom's energy branch to the American General Electric would create 1000 jobs: today, 500 jobs have been abolished. EDF is not a private company like any other: it is the fruit of French history and public ambition. Industrial power requires a strategic vision, and often resisting the temptation of financial ease solutions. Contemporary relations with our major foreign economic partners, be they American or Asian, bear witness to this demand. With EDF, France and Europe have a major player in the energy transition. Why call his unit into question? Minister, did the Government draw all the consequences of the "Alstom sequence" before initiating the split of EDF? If so, what lesson do you learn? Why put EDF Bleu, who most needs industrial investments, that is, capital whose return on investment is long-term, at the sole expense of the state, and entrust to private EDF Vert, who rather needs financial capital, i.e. with a quick return on investment? In reality, this is tantamount to subjecting investment in nuclear and hydropower to the budgetary constraints of the State. It also threatens to move us away from safety standards, which are now guaranteed by the requirements that the state can impose on a private partner, since we will remove a third party in the discussion. With this organisation, above all, nuclear energy choices would be subject even more strongly to the electoral motivations, which we are now paying the high price in my constituency in Fessenheim.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u195	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u196	Mr President, you are free to interpret. As for me, I can assure you that I am motivated by the ecological and solidarity transition. Specifically, in the field of energy, the Government's strategy outlined in the multi-year energy programming aims to decarbonize our economy, consumption and generation of electricity and reduce the share of nuclear energy to 50 per cent by 2035. We already had the opportunity to discuss it yesterday, diversifying the energy mix is a reasoned choice. Renewable energy, rising in power, will take over from non-carbon energy. The Government's action is part of this multi-year energy programme; EDF must play a central role in the implementation of this strategy. I cannot accept the comments on a possible split that I have heard. I repeat: EDF must be an integrated company and a public company. It is in this context that the reflections must be carried out within the company in order to find the best organisation giving EDF, the major player in our energy policy, the means to make the massive investments we need in energy production and networks. We are also, I repeat, very attentive to EDF's financial situation. The regulatory project that we are promoting at European level aims both to protect French consumers and to secure EDF's investment path in the historic nuclear park.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u197	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u198	This project seems to us to be a financial logic – a view shared by some of the previous speakers. The division of the company does not seem to us to be the key to the problem. We have several questions, including the questioning of the integrated nature of the group, which has demonstrated its effectiveness since its inception. That the same entity manages production, distribution and the network is a guarantee in terms of public service and tariff equalization. You say you are attached to this integrated model and keen to protect it. I'd like you to explain how, because I'm worried about this. I come to the ARENH, which has been the subject of much discussion in the debate on the energy and climate bill. Instead of raising EDF's revenue cap, as we did, we had to ask the real questions, the questions of price and meaning. This scheme has lost its meaning, and the income ceiling imposed on EDF is unfair. Its establishment has not led alternative suppliers to invest in the means of production. The ARENH is absolutely obsolete. How do you plan to reform it? This reform is necessary if EDF is to be reorganised, since without it the group will not have the resources required by the energy transition. In the scheme of EDF Vert, where EDF's regulated activities are opened to the private sector, how do you envisage coherence between centralised and decentralised productions? What will become of the concession contracts between Enedis and the granting communities as the Government envisages a regionalization of the electricity distribution system, merged with the gas networks? I come to the hydroelectric concessions, which you plan to integrate into EDF Bleu. You are committed to their public nature and are working with the European Commission on the idea of a near-regime. What concessions would be involved? All, or only those that have come to an end? Only those operated by EDF? What about those operated by the CNR – Compagnie nationale du Rhône – and the SHEM – Société hydropower du Midi?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u199	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u200	I repeat very clearly that the reorganization of EDF is aimed at meeting the objectives I have recalled, which are those of the Energy and Climate Act and the multiannual energy programming. It is about giving the company all the means to stay at the heart of our energy policy, with some clear conditions: the maintenance of an integrated company, the maintenance of a public company.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u201	So what does the Hercules project consist of?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u202	Are you cleaning Augias' stables?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u203	As far as ARENH is concerned, I am somewhat surprised at the potential challenge to the need for nuclear price regulation. It should be borne in mind that if energy sales prices to energy suppliers blaze, they will blaze for French consumers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u204	Not with the ARENH!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u205	This fully justifies our ensuring that we have a mechanism to prevent the sale price of the historic nuclear from blazing in line with possible geopolitical events. These can lead to tensions over the course of fossil fuels, and thus to an upsurge in energy prices in Europe. The Government is in its role when it is considering regulation to protect French consumers from a rise in historical nuclear prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u206	Tell us about the Hercules project!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u207	At the same time, we are looking at regulation to secure the investments that the company will need to maintain the historic nuclear park.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u208	Tell us about the Hercules project!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u209	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u210	First of all, I would like to thank the GDR Group, which initiated this debate on the Hercule project. My question specifically concerns the future EDF Blue, an entity intended to be renationalised and which would include nuclear, transmission and hydropower. As a mountain elected woman, I am particularly attentive to the future of this last sector. It is worth recalling, because this is all too often forgotten, that it is the first source of renewable energy and that it is actively involved in the planning of the territories, as is the case with me, in the High Pyrénées. Indeed, hydroelectric dams are not only used to generate electricity. They also have essential functions in regulating stream flow, not to mention the storage potential of pumped power transfer stations, STEPs, which are used to counteract the intermittent nature of wind and solar energy. I regret that the European Commission does not recognise the specificities of hydropower, as evidenced by the calls addressed to France for hydropower concessions that have expired. On 12 June, in his general policy speech, the Prime Minister said: "We respect European law, but we will not accept the fragmentation of this heritage belonging to the French". Since then, negotiations have continued, without the national representation being informed of their progress, in contradiction to the commitment made by Brune Poirson here, during a debate held in March 2019, also at the initiative of the GDR Group. Madam Minister, what about today? More broadly, the Hercules project aims to reorganise our entire electricity generation and transmission model. What will be its implications for the development of hydropower, largely forgotten in the last PPE?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u211	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u212	I wish to reiterate the Government's full support for hydropower. It is a flexible and competitive renewable energy, important both for the electricity system, because it contributes to the achievement of the objectives of progress of renewable energies, but also for the economic development of our territories. French law, in accordance with European law, now provides that hydro-electric concessions that have expired must be renewed by way of competition. Several of them have expired since the end of 2011 without competitive procedures being initiated. In view of the social, economic and ecological challenges associated with hydropower, successive governments have sought to provide a protective framework for these concessions. Various measures are foreseen, including the Green Growth Energy Transition Act, such as the possibility for local authorities to be involved in a concession within the framework of a mixed hydro-electric economy. The law also allows for the consolidation of hydraulically linked concessions to facilitate their operation, as well as the extension against work, in compliance with the Directive on the award of concession contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u213	Is the Hercules project buried? We have no answer to that question, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u214	We also wanted to open a new option, with the European Commission, with the status of a quasi-regime that would allow us to avoid competition. I would remind you that we find ourselves in a somewhat paradoxical situation, with France being the only country where hydropower is operated in the context of concessions – which explains the difficulties encountered when they come to an end. Conversely, there is no competition in neighbouring countries, where hydropower production is owned by operators. Today we are discussing with the European Commission the possibility of such a scheme. The discussions have not yet been concluded, but this option could meet the expectations expressed in many territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u215	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u216	EUR 37 billion: this is EDF's debt as of 30 June 2019, compounded by the heavy construction of the EPRs in Flamanville and Hinkley Point, which amount to EUR 12.4 billion and EUR 24 billion respectively. The construction of six additional EPRs would cost EUR 46 billion and the extension and upgrading of ageing plants would amount to at least EUR 100 billion, according to the Court of Auditors. Obviously, it is only when it comes to nuclear power that you love public spending. Your government has long initiated this project, which aims to split into two EDFs to meet the costs of nuclear debt to the state, and to give up renewable energy activities to competition. In short, it amounts to privatizing profits, leaving a sector of the future to the voracity of private interests, and to socializing losses. It is indeed a dismantling of EDF, whatever you say, and that is the term used by the Minister of Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs – who was none other than Emmanuel Macron – in March 2016 in front of parliamentarians, speaking of this operation. What a fulgurance! The disintegration of EDF, after the privatisation of Gaz de France and the opening up of the energy sector to competition, under pressure from the European Union, would make it even more difficult for us to plan ecologically! It would put an end to any idea of a public electricity service that supplies all French and French people equally! Who gave you that idea? We learn in surveys that since 2015, the idea is trotted in the head of Emmanuel Macron, influenced by former EDF bankers' friends, and by a note produced by Rothschild &am p; Co. If Rothschild says so, after all, it doesn't matter that 40% of EDF employees went on strike last September to oppose the project! Minister, stop playing Sunday surgeons by cutting public treasures here and there without any long-term industrial projects and for financial purposes. Do not give in to the neoliberal sirens of Brussels, for whom the public service rhymes with the old world while it is, more than ever, guaranteeing the equality of all the French. My question is simple: what do you answer to EDF employees opposed to this recast?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u217	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u218	I would like to reiterate, even if I do not feel that I am being heard, that the Government's reflection is primarily on France's energy policy, in a climate emergency that requires us to have a sustainable energy – and in particular electricity – decarbonised. We are therefore well guided, above all, by an energy policy reflection. It must then be followed by a reflection of industrial policy, within our historical operator, which is the subject of discussion with representative trade union organisations. I don't approve of almost any of the terms you used. With regard to the figures you are quoting concerning the supposed expenditure on nuclear energy, I would like to point out that the State's public funds do not target nuclear energy: they are EUR 5 billion a year dedicated to supporting renewable energies. For a period of ten years, the duration of the EPP is EUR 50 billion. It seems to me important that everyone has these figures in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u219	But not one wind turbine at sea, not one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u220	Your intervention also seems to give the impression that historical nuclear power would be a deficit activity. This is absolutely not the case: this activity is now producing results; it contributes significantly to EDF's overall outcome. Finally, you seem to doubt the need for State control over the production of nuclear energy. The Government, for its part, is fully convinced of this. We are facing issues of sovereignty, requiring long-term visions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u221	Why do you have to implement the Hercules project, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u222	It is therefore perfectly legitimate to consider that the State must control nuclear activities in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u223	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u224	What does the Hercule project really mean, rejected unanimously by the trade unions? That is the real issue, and the source of shared concern. Hercules is the end of EDF as it was conceived and conceived in 1946, and it is the continuation of the Government's liberal project, according to which market valves should be opened and the State should be disengaged. Indeed, with the Hercules project, it is two branches of EDF that will be created: the Blue EDF, with nuclear and hydraulic activities, managed by the State, and the Green EDF, privatized, publicly traded, and oriented towards renewable energies. In the end, everything responds to a financial and liberal logic. Is that the Hercules project, Madam Minister, and is it still relevant? However, have the prices of electricity and energy not increased exponentially? As of January 1, 2020, the bill increased again for individuals, from 3.5% to 4%, where last year it had increased by 7%. The generalisation of competition in the electricity market is at the expense of consumers. The big winners will be capital flows, not the general interest. We can only welcome the efforts made in favour of the environmental cause. However, the means used are not the right ones. We cannot, under the guise of an accelerated energy transition, privatize a company with a state shareholder of 83.7%. You did it with La Française des Jeux, your policy seems to go in the same direction for SNCF, and you want to continue in this direction for EDF. The anarchic development of renewable energy, particularly wind energy, is a real disaster in rural areas, like mine in Allier, and we call for stronger public intervention in this sector to structure its development. On the contrary, you want to entrust this vital and strategic sector to the private sector. When are you going to stop ruining France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u226	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u227	This is a trial of intent...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u228	No, it's a reality at home, not a trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u229	You suspect that we want to privatize EDF, but also SNCF. But the law of 2018 for a new railway pact is perfectly clear on this: SNCF is a public company and will remain so – just as EDF is and will remain so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u230	And unified?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u231	As I pointed out, it is not only a public enterprise, but it must also remain an integrated group. I hear your criticism of the increase in electricity prices. I find it difficult to understand how these increases can be criticized while challenging the steps taken to maintain a long-term regulation of historic nuclear power, which is an important part of our electricity production.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u232	Ask the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u233	I confirm that the Government considers it necessary to protect French consumers from fluctuations in fossil energy prices, bearing in mind that the French consumer and the public authorities have supported the development of a historic nuclear park; Today it must benefit all French consumers. This concern guides the steps taken by the Government, together with the European Commission, to ensure long-term regulation. It will also secure the significant investments that will be required over the next few years on the historic nuclear park. In addition, it seems to me important, with a view to a balanced and decarbonised mix, to enable the development of renewable energies, both solar and wind. As I said yesterday, I share your view on the development of the Earth's wind turbine, which is not operating harmoniously in the national territory. Parks are far too concentrated in two regions – particularly in the Hauts-de-France. The working group that I launched last December must ensure better integration and a more balanced distribution of wind energy in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u234	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u235	Minister, our colleagues in the GDR Group did not want to hold a debate on the ecological transition, but a debate on the Hercule project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u236	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u237	On the construction of this essentially financial project, we deplore a clear lack of transparency on the part of the Government. A few minutes ago, you made it clear that you were waiting for EDF leaders to offer you something. In September, in the context of the questions to the Government, Mr. Bruno Le Maire had answered the same question: the Government was waiting for the Hercule project to be proposed to it when it had already been presented to the trade unions. Fortunately, Jean-Bernard Lévy showed a little transparency before the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs: he recalled that this project was an order of the President of the Republic, who asked EDF if there were any means to optimize the management of its assets and liabilities. Christophe Carval, Executive Director of the EDF Group, told us a few minutes ago that he was working on this project with the State Participation Agency. This clearly shows that the project goes beyond the scope of the company and that the state is not completely outside the loop – and fortunately, since it is the French heritage that is being discussed, as the EPA manages the 30 billion euros of stakes that the state holds in EDF's capital. My very simple question is to get a little bit of transparency on this matter, which is a matter of national sovereignty – as you yourself said, Madam Minister. What are the advice – consultants and consulting banks – that the EPA has surrounded to build this dossier and manage the French heritage?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u238	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u239	You cannot say that Hercules would be a financial project and, at the same time, refuse the debate on our country's energy policy, which underlies the reflection that must be carried out within the historical operator in order to adapt its organisation to the evolution of the electricity mix. If we refuse to see the general context in which the company's thinking is based, we can find that this project has no meaning in terms of energy and industrial policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u240	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u241	On the contrary, it seems to me very important to discuss the objectives of our country's energy policy: it is a prerequisite for reflection to be carried out within the company. For having had the honour of running a public company, I think it is the responsibility of the leaders to propose to the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u242	And to the national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u243	...the most appropriate organisation to implement the strategy of the latter. You know very well, Mr Jumel, that the framework of EDF's organisation is largely defined by law: if there were to be important developments, Parliament would necessarily have to know about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u244	Ah! So the project is not complete!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u245	The question asked the CEO of EDF is the one you recalled: what is the most suitable organization to implement a transition that represents an important evolution of our electric mix and to give the company all the assets it can to be a central player in our energy policy? Of course, the Government is not disinterested in the reflections carried out within the company – the EPA and the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate are attentive – but we must not lose sight of the purpose of these reflections, namely that EDF remains a central player in our energy policy while our electricity mix is going to undergo an important evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u246	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u247	I confirm what our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne has just said: like you, the minister, the national representation fears an increase in electricity prices that would be contrary to the interests of consumers. It is therefore a pity that you systematically associate our interventions with caricature. When the sector opened up to competition, we were promised a fall in prices; On the contrary, for the last ten years there has been a steady rise in electricity prices. According to Eurostat figures, electricity, which was 30% cheaper than the European average in 2010, was only 17% cheaper in 2016. Since 2010, while the production structure has remained virtually unchanged, the price per kilowatt hour has increased by more than 30%. Indeed, after an increase of 7% in 2019, it was expected that the bill would still increase by about 3.5% or 4% as of January 1, 2020. If production costs remained stable, as well as the marketing cost, which represented 35% of the invoice in 2017, the other two components are taxes and transport costs, which weigh about 35% and 30% respectively on the invoice. The share of these two items of expenditure has thus literally gone away. However, with the Hercules project, an increased share of the taxes will be allocated to the entire subsidy system for wind turbines, solar panels and other thermal insulation. Moreover, according to David Cayla, economist at the University of Angers, in whom we can trust, another inflationary factor, visible on the energy bill and reinforced by Hercules, is the generalisation of competition in the electricity market, whereas it is now known that the electricity market is typically the one for which competition is the least efficient. What is emerging with Hercules is that EDF's private competitors will be able to capture a greater proportion of nuclear power at regulated prices, again to the detriment of consumers. We would also like to know what guarantees we have to ensure that this project does not further aggravate the situation of energy insecurity which already affects more than 9 million French people, with harmful consequences on their wallets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u249	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u250	It is paradoxical to challenge the deplorable volumes of ARENH while expressing your concern to better control the price of energy for consumers. We cannot at the same time wish to raise the price of the historic nuclear paid to EDF and imagine that this will lead to lower bills for consumers. It's not compatible! Of course, we are concerned about the electricity prices paid by French consumers. That is why we want to renovate the ARENH mechanism while maintaining a regulation of historical nuclear prices. We also want lower prices for renewable energy, which I welcome, on the understanding that we spend EUR 5 billion each year to finance the gap between production costs and prices offered to consumers. I can therefore assure you that we are putting in place ways to ensure that electricity prices are controlled – it is ultimately the role of the Energy Regulatory Commission to ensure that prices stick as closely as possible to production costs – but we cannot want both very remunerative prices for the producer and low prices for the consumer. Both are irreconcilable! I would also remind you that we have considerably expanded the scope of the energy check for the most modest consumers: it now benefits nearly 6 million households.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u251	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor to put the last question in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u252	With your hand on your heart, with determination, you support, Madam Minister, that there will be an industrial project with regard to EDF Bleu in particular. An industrial project must be long-term, not short-term, depending on the financial interests behind the wood. In order for an industrial project to be sustainable, the structure must not be limited to the management of an rent intended to be extinguished with the end of the reactors or even with the privatisation of the dams. Research, including basic research, must be encouraged. However, the Government has taken the decision to abandon the Astrid Fourth Generation Nuclear Reactor Project, without explanation, probably for financial reasons. This is only one example among others, but the abandonment of this fundamental research on the Astrid project will mortgage the implementation of a real industrial project for EDF. In the same way, are you presenting us with alternative technologies? There is no question of leaving the nuclear industry immediately, even in the light of climate issues – we know that this would be completely ridiculous! Alternative technologies must therefore be developed and not left to the EPR. What is the state of the research that will make it possible to build a real industrial project on a foundation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u253	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u254	With regard to the Astrid project, I would like to point out that in recent years efforts have focused on the deployment of a fourth generation sodium-cooled fast neutron reactor line. It has appeared that this sector, which is supposed to reduce uranium requirements, does not meet an immediate constraint linked to uranium supply, on which there are no tensions today. This industry was also supposed to allow the fuel cycle to be closed, but it does not really meet this objective. If we want to understand the closure of the cycle as a whole, we must work not only on the reactor, as was the case in the Astrid project, but also on the preparation and recycling of the fuel. It is therefore an extensive research programme, which I can confirm to you has not been stopped – the Government has decided to redirect its efforts towards a programme aimed at strengthening and maintaining our physical knowledge of fast neutron reactors and associated cycle processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u255	No scientist supports this! All the researchers are up against your decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u256	I did not know that there were no scientists in the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – in any case, this is the position of the CEA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u257	No, it was imposed on the CEA!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u258	For my part, I trust the leaders of the CEA to carry a scientific vision. I would also like to point out that we are continuing the ITER project – another area of reflection in the field of nuclear energy – and that we have not at all reduced our guard in our reflections on new generations of nuclear reactors. We have simply rebalanced our efforts in terms of research and development, working not only on the reactor, but also on all the associated cycle processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u259	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-09-O1119.u260	Next sitting, Tuesday, 14 January, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of five bills authorizing ratification of international conventions; Discussion of the proposed law to approve prison sentences in New Caledonia. The meeting is adjourned.
