ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I would like to remind you of the derogatory rules governing the organization of our questions to the Government because of the health crisis: since last week, seventy-five Members of Parliament have been able to meet in the Chamber in proportion to the size of the groups. This number, taking into account the presence of ministers and officials, makes it possible to comply with the decree limiting rallies in closed spaces in the territory of the Republic to 100 persons. In addition, since last week we have returned to the usual number of questions, which are more favourable to opposition groups. Speaking times are the usual time: two minutes per question and as much by reply, reply and counter-replica, if any. The traditional order of appeal of the questions is restored. However, the questions with the same theme are grouped together, each with a specific answer. Health rules continue to apply, including cleaning microphones during the session – speakers are invited not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones – but also to respect the distances between participants and staggering the entrances and exits of the Chamber. We begin with general questions about the Covid-19 crisis and the theme of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u2	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u3	Prime Minister, masks fall as masks are missing. You lied to us first by explaining that everything was fine, while the caregivers were cruelly lacking protection, and then saying that the masks were useless. You lied to hide the shortage. Your orders and contracts cost lives. The masks fall and the truth immediately reveals itself: you do not control the situation. You refused to requisition the textile companies. The seamstresses had to compensate for the failure of the State, which was also unremunerated. You rely on solidarity to make up for your incompetence. Today, anger disputes with disgust: masks appear as if by magic when it comes to profit. It is your responsibility, Prime Minister, to provide masks to caregivers, as well as to the general public. It is your responsibility to do everything possible to ensure the health security of the nation. But no, you prefer to let the large distribution sell surgical masks at exorbitant prices while it already takes advantage of the closure of small shops to get wasted. How was the large distribution able to obtain more than 400 million masks so quickly when the strategic stock of the state was lacking? When Leclerc commands, the masks arrive immediately; When it's the state, you have to wait until June! You let crisis profitors decide the price of the mask so as not to "stop innovation". In the face of general outcry and to prevent possible abuses, the Government had decided to cap the cost of surgical masks at 95 cents, an amount eight times higher than before the epidemic. A nice margin for shareholders! For a family, the monthly cost of masks could be 100 to 200 euros per month: a shame, while hunger is gaining ground. The most precarious will only have to choose between eating or protecting themselves... Only one price must be set for health: free. The profits of the shareholders of Leclerc, Intermarché or Auchan are not worth the lives of millions of us. Prime Minister, stop using the mask of accountability and make the only decision that is worth it: make the masks free and distribute them massively!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u5	I have seen, Mrs Panot, that in the last few months the intellectual matrix of your party has been nourished by theories of conspiracy, aimed at demonizing what affects capitalism from near or far.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u6	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u7	I assure you, Mrs Panot, however, that there is no hidden stock or competition for masks. The figures announced by the large distribution – you mentioned several hundred million surgical masks – do not correspond to the current stocks, but to the orders placed several months ago, which allow today to supply the shelves of the various signs, gradually, for the benefit of our citizens. By way of comparison, health professionals have benefited from the government's order of nearly 3 billion masks in the last two months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u8	What about free?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u9	The volumes announced by the large distribution do not therefore compete with the supply of the health system, which is directly under the responsibility of Santé publique France. The state currently distributes 100 million masks a week, of which 45 million are to be distributed to healthcare professionals – a figure expected to reach 100 million in the near future. Private companies and local authorities, whose work I salute, have the right to import surgical masks since 21 March. As you know, however, they are required to declare any order exceeding 5 million masks over three slippery months. So there is no hidden stock. This controversy has no reason to be. We need everyone to allow the French to have protective masks on May 11. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, a stock of 5 million masks has been allocated to communal social action centres and town halls to distribute them to the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u10	There are nine million poor in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u11	It would be good if the Secretary of State answered the question! It was on the masks free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u12	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] My question, addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, concerns pharmacists, to whom I wish to begin by expressing our gratitude. Thanks to their territorial network, they have been distributing health care workers' protection tools for the past two months. They also carry out new tasks, including preventing domestic violence, despite thefts and numerous incivilities against them. They are a vital link in the fight against the Covid-19 and we thank them for that. Despite the Government's explanation of the mask distribution strategy and the support of scientists, pharmacists are exposed to the misunderstanding of caregivers and the population. Today, they are asking for readability as to their place in the distribution network compared to retail stores, which are about to market a large amount of surgical masks. How can we explain that clinics are struggling to provide healthcare workers when a large amount of masks are already on sale for the general public? The fact that large-scale distribution, which is not the core of the business, provides massive masks also raises the question of public support in their use, as well as the usefulness of nationally adapted communication. Masks are today at the heart of French concerns. In the face of the various problems they raise in terms of supply, demand, award and certification, professionals want to have elements of framing and a clear doctrine to accompany the population with pedagogy. Minister, what answers can you give to these concerns?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u14	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u15	Through your question, Member of Parliament, you reflect the emotions of caregivers and more broadly of health professionals. I understand the questions, doubts and even polemics that have arisen recently, but the Government has responded in recent days and the elements that I in turn want to bring to your attention will, I hope, put an end to them. From the beginning of the crisis, we considered that the supply of masks would be a problem. Like many other countries, France has faced the risk of a shortage of masks, but we have been making every effort, for several weeks, to cope with them in the best conditions and ensure regular distribution to professionals. In this context, pharmacists play a key logistical role. Of course, the Government associates itself with your well-deserved tribute to them. As I mentioned earlier, over the past two months, we have distributed 300 million masks to health care professionals. This number is gradually increasing from 45 million to 100 million per week. In a spirit of responsibility, for the past two months, pharmacists have provided free distribution of masks to city health professionals. Most of them have often made their own stock of masks available to those in need. The Government knows how to rely on them to continue to protect health professionals. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To answer your question more precisely, Ms. Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, you should know that on Thursday evening, May 7, new endowments will arrive in the officiaries. Today, all health professionals have received a message from the Health Branch to answer all questions related to the provision and use of these new endowments as part of the resumption of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u16	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u17	Let us hope, Mr. Secretary of State, that your answer reassures pharmacists and, above all, that the tension on the masks will relax so that they can safely carry out their mission with the caregivers, whose protection must be our priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u18	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u19	Prime Minister, just a few days from the process of deconfining, the doubt is stronger than ever. It has settled in the early days of the health crisis, because very quickly the French understood that we were not ready, and also because you have often changed your mind on many subjects: masks, tests, the opening of schools, quarantine measures for European Union nationals, the date of the definement... [[Smile of Mr Sébastien Jumel]] The doubt is understandable and legitimate when it precedes the decision, but the approximations, orders and controversies of the ministers, the controversies between them, sometimes even concerning you, are increasingly unbearable. In your discharge, the President of the Republic does not help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u20	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u21	On the contrary, by its positions, to say the least, scalable,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u23	...it weakens you with each of his interventions. Throughout this period, the parliamentary opposition wanted to be strong and acted with responsibility. As for local elected officials, they have constantly sought to fill the loopholes and weaknesses of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u25	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] What's the status of France today? To date, we are mourning three times as many deaths as Germany for a similar number of patients. Our gross domestic product is falling much faster and much stronger than most of our neighbours. And when we ask the peoples of Europe whether they are satisfied with their leaders, the observation is cruel: Angela Merkel, Giuseppe Conte, Sebastian Kurz, Boris Johnson, all do better than the French leaders. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, why the bad results? What lessons do you learn from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u26	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u27	You mention many issues in your question, Mr. Jacob, which I will find difficult to address all of you. However, it has the immense merit of imposing on us today a delicate but necessary exercise, which requires humility and prudence: that of international comparison. Of course, it is not possible to compare what is not comparable, but it is useful to compare the reactions of different European countries to an identical threat – even if prevalence rates could be somewhat different. How have their care systems adapted? How were the decisions made? You note – by criticising the French government at the same time, which is perfectly your right – that Germany has recorded a far lower number of deaths than ours and that it deserves to be seen as an example. It is in many respects, and I fully agree with you on this point. You do not say, on the other hand, that the comparison with other countries comparable to France is not on all points to its disadvantage with regard to the management of the epidemic – I express myself here with infinite caution. The British population, you say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u28	I've been talking about public opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u29	All right. She would feel that her Prime Minister managed the situation much better than the French leaders. Maybe. Probably. That's a point of view. When we can analyse the situation in detail, with the wisdom of the retrospective view and with all the data available, we will see how our care system has adapted to the crisis and how the systems of countries comparable to ours, subject to the same pressures, have done so. You should know, Mr. President Jacob, that I am waiting for this day with serenity. Without bravery, without enthusiasm, but with serenity. The Italian system has often been wrongly criticized. Lombardy, the Italian region most affected by the epidemic, is a rich and remarkably equipped region, including in terms of public health services. In the face of the epidemic, however, she was led to sort out the patients admitted to resuscitation – this famous and terrible sorting that we talked about a lot. This was not necessary in France: our system held – probably because it had a little more time than the Italian system to adapt. I am absolutely not trying to denigrate our Italian friends: everyone is in a difficult situation, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom – countries comparable to ours by size, history and organization – as much as France. So I say it with peace and humility, because I know that one can always find an example of a more successful operation. We will see at the end, when all the data are available, how the Germans will have reached this stage. If they have done so better than we have, I shall begin by gladness, for they are our friends; Then, like you, like all of us here, I will try to learn from it and see what we can learn from their system, not only in crisis management but in many other areas. You're right, this time will come. But we are still in the process of managing the health crisis, whose very complex stages await us. Some are well aware that the preparation of deconfinement is far more difficult than the decision of confinement, from the logistical, legal, political, human and technical point of view. This is the work we are doing – this "we" is nothing of a majesty "we": it includes prefects, local elected officials, business leaders, all the actors in the healthcare system, who are trying to implement as intelligently as possible elements of health doctrine or collective organization that are not easy to implement. Because it is not easy to control an epidemic without effective treatment, vaccine or collective immunity. In this difficult exercise, I try, as far as possible, although it is not simple either – as you know, as you have even said – to bring to the actors the elements they must have at the time of making the decisions. To prevent the spread of the epidemic, I try to ensure that the chains of contamination that the departmental devices will allow to rise can be broken and that the supply of tests is sufficient – it will be technically. This is what the French Government is doing, such as the British, Spanish or Italian governments, each under specific political conditions. Some of these governments are heavily criticized internally – in this regard, you have quoted the right figures; This is the case in France's friendly countries, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy and Belgium, because everyone is afraid and well aware that what we are living is terribly complex. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I meet a lot and I hear a lot about our fellow citizens who are very angry with the Government. I also hear many others who tell us: "What you are doing – and what the mayor is doing – is horribly difficult, as we all know; So go ahead, courage, hold on. There are countries where these things are said more publicly than at home. That's how it is; We live in France. We will have lessons to learn from the experience we are experiencing, from the difficulties we are experiencing; It will require a lot of lucidity and joint work. I'm obviously ready for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u30	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u31	Minister of National Education and Youth, on May 12, our children will return to school. It will be a great moment in the lives of these students and a symbolic stage of a gradual deconfination, giving life to our territories by opening up a crucial place in our society: the school of the neighborhood or the village. This will also be, and above all, an essential moment in terms of educational continuity, while for children confinement differs according to the place of residence and the accompaniment that each parent can provide. In our territories, mayors and their education assistants are working to reopen infrastructure that depends on their competence. But the policy of systematic opposition has resumed its course and voices are being heard that contest the reopening of these first places of knowledge and citizenship, which are the French public schools. I find it paradoxical that local elected officials who regularly ask for more responsibility and autonomy call on the State on the day when they have the opportunity to obtain satisfaction, as a local elected representative, a former assistant to schools and a member of the parliamentary delegation to local authorities and decentralization. I am speaking to them: at a time when our nation is asking for a clear speech and a joint work, be at the rendezvous, work with us, with your academic services, to leave the choice for parents to maintain an education at home or to re-school their child, a choice that belongs to them. Because the tree must not hide the forest, I would also like to thank all the mayors, elected officials and services who work on reopening by respecting the sanitary protocol provided by the national education, by purchasing the necessary protections from the agents, especially teachers, by preparing the classrooms, by identifying with the principals the reception capacities and the choices of the families. To succeed together the return to school, everyone, teacher as elected, must work with confidence and flexibility, outside the usual patterns sometimes very rigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u32	They're already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] How do your services support the goodwill of actors on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u34	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u35	Your question is important at this crucial moment for our country, where, for the first time in our history, we have to organize a school year back-to-school, which is also in an unprecedented format. This calls for great flexibility at the local level. We must face three challenges. The first is sanitary; It is the meaning of our protocol, very strict, what I assume – some think it is too strict, but we would have been criticized for not doing so. We are united to uphold it and to help the municipalities to update themselves. The second challenge concerns the reception framework: to define the order in which children will return to school, for which we take into account both the level of education and the priority audiences. Finally, the educational framework: the school is not a day-care centre, May and June will be marked by important educational issues and our wish that children continue to learn and develop in school during these two months is inseparable from our social objective. This one is fundamental, you have reminded him very well. We cannot afford to leave children out of school from March to September. This challenge, too, we are in the process of meeting it. I was visiting this morning, alongside the President of the Republic, at a school in Poissy which welcomed children of caregivers into its walls. Here is a very good example of the forest that cannot be hidden: the reception of the children of caregivers, at the rate of 30,000 during the two months of confinement, was a magnificent success of the town halls, teachers and other staff – an experience that obviously also serves to think of deconfinity. This school, like the majority of those in France, will open in May to accommodate as many children as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The situation is not the same as usual, everyone can understand it; but by succeeding in deconfining with the town halls, we will show that we are a united people around the school. I know we'll make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u36	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u37	Prime Minister, I am the spokesperson for the inhabitants of our coast and the elected representatives, all sensitivities, who do not understand that our beaches are destined to remain unattainable after 11 May. The President of the Republic has promised us a debunking; When will this happen? Most of our coastal departments, including the five Bretons, are classified as green. The opening of our beaches is therefore possible. It is desired by tourism professionals, who are unable to carry out any activity at the moment but would see it as a positive sign given the difficulties they have encountered. It would be a first message of hope. We must put an end to this prohibition of principle. How would beaches be more dangerous than public transport or large areas? They are accessible in Great Britain and Italy. Of course, their openness would be regulated by very strict regulations so that the distancing between individuals and between groups would be respected. The mayors, in charge of police power, could take care of this. But our beaches and our strikes are vast. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Please stop deciding everything from Paris: listen to the local, listen to the elected officials who are with the population and know the place. Stop infantilizing our compatriots, who have been able to show the greatest spirit of discipline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u39	The Prime Minister said this here last week: as a precautionary measure, beaches will remain inaccessible to the public until at least 1 June. Each measure, this rule is binding, especially for those who live on the coast and would like to engage in aquatic or nautical activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u40	Just walk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u41	The Government is the guarantor of the prudence and progressivity of the lifting of confinement. We must ensure at all costs that the rules of physical distancing, which together with other barrier measures are our best assets to reduce the epidemic, are respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u42	And how will you do it in public transport?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u43	We have heard the arguments of the proponents of the reopening, many of whom propose to allow, as in Australia, access to the beach without depositing his towel, to practice a sport. But, at this stage, it seems more reasonable to maintain the rule set out by the Prime Minister, because the first phase of deconfination requires special caution and vigilance. We know this from experience: as soon as access to the beaches is reopened, we will want to go there in numbers; These are difficult areas to monitor and control. In addition, the opening period includes several public holidays that would favour an influx to the beaches if access were allowed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I repeat, we are well aware of the binding nature of the measure and of the disappointment it gives rise to. We have three weeks before us to reflect on this, as we agreed to review it for the second phase of the release of containment on June 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u44	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u45	[[Smile]] I am disappointed with that answer. I repeat, the beaches and the strikes are vast and it is perfectly possible to apply strict regulations while allowing walkers and sportsmen to access them. People need to ventilate a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u46	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u47	Prime Minister, no one denies that the crisis we are experiencing is very complex to deal with. But it is precisely for this reason that we need clear answers and, above all, which do not contradict each other according to whether they come from you, from your ministers or from the President of the Republic. These are the answers that I am asking you on this fiftieth day of confinement. According to some ministers, from 11 May onwards, the fight against the economic crisis will take precedence over the fight against the health crisis. Is that your point of view, too? For us, the health struggle must remain a priority, even after 11 May. That's why we want masks for everyone. On my way to the National Assembly today, I visited about ten Parisian pharmacies and a large area; None of them had any. I ended up finding them in an 11th pharmacy. What about the spread of masks on the territory? How do you intend to regulate it? That is also why we want a safe return to school. The principle must be that we open up when we are ready from the point of view of health safety. In addition, the State must assume its share of responsibility by ceasing to defeat the mayors. I therefore ask you that the reopening of the schools be subject to prior approval by the State, which will jointly assume the decision, on the proposal of the mayor. That's why we want PCR tests. You announced last Tuesday a target of 700000 weekly tests from 11 May. However, according to the president of the national union of biologists, laboratories, both public and private, currently make only about 250,000 per week. How do you plan to multiply this number by three by next Monday? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] With regard to economic security, finally, financing emergency funds means securing our own access to finance. I asked the Minister of Economy and Finance twice, who did not reply. Today, the German Constitutional Court warned the European Central Bank about the financing it provides. What guarantees have you obtained from our European partners?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u48	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u49	Many questions in your question, Madam President, and I will let the Minister of Economy and Finance address the last of the issues you have raised. Your first question was whether, as of May 11, the ranking of government priorities would change. However, I thought I was clear when I spoke here in the gallery last week, but if that was not the case, I will try to be even more clear this time so that there is no more doubt. We're on a ridge line. I'd rather things were simpler, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u50	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u51	You, too, I'm sure. But things are not simple. If we go too fast in the definity, we risk bad news on the health side. I'm convinced of that. I am therefore careful and have indicated that the evolution will have to be gradual. Sometimes I get blamed. Sometimes some say that I should go faster, allow the reopening of cafes and restaurants, allow access to the beaches, as Mr. Le Fur just asked. But no: we want to move forward gradually in order to ensure that at every new stage we continue to be able to control the spread of the virus. But we must be careful, as much as it is impossible to remain motionless, under the penalty of having to face another risk: that of very bad economic news for the country, that of the collapse of production and therefore of redistribution, with at the exit that of a social catastrophe and of a educational catastrophe. All these risks, I know you measure them perfectly. We must therefore take a step-by-step and cautious approach that ensures both security and the return of our country. It is a difficult balance to maintain, but I do not believe that this objective lacks clarity, and our fellow citizens fully understand its logic: they fully admit that we need to move forward, but cautiously. Then everyone is free to get his own idea of what it means to move forward cautiously. If you find yourself in a territory where the virus has more or less circulated, you get a different idea of this balance. Everyone can understand that. But it is this balance that we are trying to maintain by reopening the schools, by allowing public transport to cope with the increase in traffic as traffic increases, although under very strict conditions. That is how the Government intends to maintain balance, and all its members are on that line. It is true that, sometimes, some focus on a measure that is more of a restart and others on a measure that is more of a prudence. Some commentators – I don't think of you, Mrs Rabault – see this as a fundamental difference in government expression, but that is not true. We are all trying to keep this balance together, knowing that it is not easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u52	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u53	What we are asking, with humility, is only a little bit of good faith on the other side – again, it is not addressed to you, Madam President. When everyone understands that the Government is, in good faith, in this logic of balance, everyone also understands the need to try to implement the decisions resulting from it by adapting to local specificities. That is the point I wanted to stress in answer to your question. With regard to the distribution of masks, the Government had already made known many elements. There will be different channels. Thus, it is the national education which will provide the masks to the students and teachers and other personnel concerned who will return to the schools from 18 May in the green departments. As an employer, the State will also distribute a number of these to its agents. As for companies, a very large number of them have placed orders and will provide masks to their employees. Some branches of industry have organized themselves so that large companies can provide them to their smaller subcontractors, who may find it more difficult to obtain them, so that the production chain can hold on to the national level. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] You also know that local and regional authorities have taken many initiatives to distribute masks. That's good. It is not a question of opposing communities and the state: everyone, together, must try to find ways to get through this stage. They have been right a thousand times to try to equip themselves to distribute masks to their population according to their own criteria, according to specific channels but adapted to the reality of the terrain. It is true in Le Havre, as it is true everywhere else in France, in all the cities of your respective constituencies, ladies and gentlemen – I do not forget that you represent in this assembly the entire French people, wherever you come from. That is how we will be able to equip the entire territory. In this regard, the fact that large distribution, or even commerce in general, has ordered masks and can sell them is good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u54	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u55	Were not many basic necessities and vital interests already on sale in the shops? This will allow many of our citizens to have faster access to a product that has become necessary. For our fellow citizens who would not have access to the masks through these different channels, the Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, the Minister of Health and Solidarity and I have already indicated that we will ensure that, every week, 5 million masks are distributed in the departments, on a case-by-case basis, in order to give a response to the most fragile, remote or unable to turn to large-scale distribution. It is the prefects who will best distribute these masks. I can't tell you how they will proceed in every department. Perhaps you will denounce the vagueness of this answer, but if I did, I would be wrong and my remarks would not be adapted to the reality of each of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] That is how we will succeed in equipping our country, gradually and as quickly as possible. I say this while always repeating that the mask must be worn well and that it is only a complement to the barrier gestures, because it is even more important to observe physical distancing and wash your hands at very regular intervals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u56	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u57	Mr Minister of National Education, why did you decide to put the little ones first on the school benches, and especially under such conditions, when a majority of other countries, as you know, decided to postpone the start of school to September or to start with students who can adopt basic health measures? Even if comparison is not right, the singularity of France has something to worry about: how can we imagine that kindergarten children can understand and respect the maintenance of physical distancing and the application of barrier gestures? These two fundamentals, which you mention in the health protocol for the reopening of institutions, are unfeasible with children under the age of 10. You are therefore at risk of multiplying new clusters, with carriers of the asymptomatic virus. Minister, aren't you more aware of the unease of teachers? National education staff have done a wonderful job. The teaching staff, and I would like to pay tribute to them, have responded present since the beginning of this health crisis to be as close as possible to the students, to accompany them and to take care of the children whose parents were mobilized. They volunteered to resume the courses in the schools, but in view of the unpreparation and the changing announcements of the Government, one understands their growing anguish – an anguish shared by the parents of the students. And then, a few weeks from the end of the school year, what are the pedagogical arguments for this rushed back-to-school? Minister, where is the common sense in your decision?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u58	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u59	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u60	Mr President, if you make an international comparison, I can do mine: many countries commit themselves like us to re-entering primary school first, I can give you a list of them. France is absolutely not in a unique situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u61	I know, there are others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u62	So I don't see why you described things like you just did. What are the arguments for a reopening in May? They are of a social and health nature. The social argument, since school is considered indispensable, is that it is even more so for the younger ones. Drop-out at primary school is the most catastrophic that can happen; There is, unfortunately, even if we have managed to reduce it. This is therefore a fundamental point. Knowing that we had decided to split the classes of CP and EC1, which represents 300,000 children, and that we were pursuing a policy favourable to rural areas, with 60,000 children in classes of less than fifteen pupils, we will be able to return all these pupils to school in accordance with the health protocol in the near future. The health argument, even though I mention it only with caution, being not myself a specialist, is based on the fact that the latest studies show less contagiousness among those under 10 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u63	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u64	[[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] And there are other elements. This very morning, in this school in Poissy that I mentioned earlier, I found that the staff were engaging with the same enthusiasm today as they had done at the beginning of the confinement for the caregiving children. When one sees such actors on the ground, one greets them, and one understands that there is no point in describing the situation in a pessimistic way. They share the same optimism I have about faculty involvement. I would add that not a single staff member at this school or one of the children was ill during this period. Again, there is no point in blackening the picture. Of course, we must be careful, and that is why we have established a health protocol – which we are sometimes accused of being too strict. Nor should we deny all the problems that would arise if the children stayed at home until September. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Primary school is a priority outside the crisis. It remains so even in the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u65	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u66	Prime Minister, are you surprised that two thirds of the French are opposed to the reopening of schools on 11 May as we are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis? We don't. This delay, it is a lonely and omnipotent president who has decided, against the advice of scientists – perhaps even against yours. Since then, it has been wanking to comply with an unrealistic injunction that mocks families, mayors and teachers. This hasty announcement had to be softened by invoking volunteerism. The school of the Republic on the basis of volunteerism! Every day his concept! From now on, it is the fight against dropping out of school on the basis of volunteerism... In which golden salon was this argument developed? The mayors, to whom the state has ironed the dishes thanks to this hypocritical notion of volunteerism, are alone in the face of the public's concerns about the possible consequences of Covid in children. They receive, a week before the beginning of the deconfinement, a complete protocol certainly but technocratic, inapplicable, which is summed up as follows: to place the child on a chair, motionless, away from friends and games, with an obligation to wash his hands every quarter of an hour.... In short, the opposite of humanity that our ATSEMs demonstrate on a daily basis, the specialized territorial agents of kindergartens, as well as accompanying students with disabilities! "Incarceration is not the school we want for our children," a mayor told me yesterday. In the absence of genuine upstream consultation, the conditions are not met for a resumption of the date envisaged by the President of the Republic, and you know that. Many questions still await answers: what about the canteen, school transportation, disinfection, out-of-school reception? Who will do what every day, how, with what means for communities? It is still time to respond with concrete support from the ground. It is still time to decide on a formal validation by the State representatives of each school reopening. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Prime Minister, the credit of the state has broken on the masks and on the hospital, let us avoid it falling into the abyss in front of the school of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u67	Bravo! He spoke plainly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u68	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u69	On all matters relating to definity, we must also reason a contrario, Mr. In this case, what would you have done if you had decided the opposite of us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u70	I'd have postponed the school year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u71	Would you have left the children confined to the house, including the most disadvantaged, in small apartments, until September? With what social consequences? And what would you have done then in September? Would you have obliged the parents to send their children back to school, even if they called the police?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u72	I would have prepared a real concerted return plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You're making criticisms, but what proposals are you making? We must have an ethics of responsibility as well as an ethics of conviction. I think it's not very honest to play with emotions on such a subject. We need a united people around their school. Fears exist. While some are legitimate, others are cultivated by some, who seek to increase them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u74	I don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u75	When you love the school of the Republic, you don't do that. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] In reality, the vast majority of mayors play the game. Even some of those who signed this weekend's appeal to the President of the Republic will open their schools. I met some of them this morning, which I will not name. In Morbihan, for example – I was talking to a member of parliament – all the municipalities, with the exception of one, will open their schools. The real substantive work is under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u76	Did I say otherwise?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] So, since you are talking about golden salons, I will mention yours: the one where negative comments are made while many advances are made on the ground, thanks to people who roll up the sleeves and who know, they, the value of the school of the Republic. It is not enough to defend the school in normal times, when there are no waves, if it is to play with it at every crisis by pretending that it is not indispensable! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The school of the Republic is now more indispensable than ever. It would be much easier for me to decide to keep it closed until a vaccine is found. On the contrary, I think it needs to be reopened – perhaps because my social concerns are more rooted than yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u78	What about class closures? What about the teachers' salaries?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u79	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u80	It was with a certain stupefying and profound incomprehension that the inhabitants, health professionals, state officials and elected officials of Haute-Corse, Lot and Cher discovered on Thursday, 30 April, that their department was classified as a red zone on the first map presenting the national epidemic situation, published by the Government. Perhaps, had the latter considered it useful to consult with local actors in advance, such a coumac could have been avoided. But the executive seems to have preferred to act once again vertically, leaving the Director General of Health, in his daily intervention of the next day, to restore the reality of the facts of an embarrassed air, forced to navigate between idle explanations and counter-truths. Prime Minister, this umpteenth dysfunction of government communication carries in it the seeds of a loss of confidence in your word. It's not nothing. A week ago, in this House, you announced that adapting to the realities of the field, in consultation with the local authorities, would be the third principle of your national strategy of deconfining. You also explained that the departments would be classified according to three criteria. The consultation did not take place and the criteria were not met. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In these circumstances, what credibility do you attach to your strategy? Is it still up to date? While the French are looking forward to hearing from you, the day after tomorrow, about the actions that will be undertaken on 11 May, can you guarantee us that you have taken the necessary measures with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the national agency of public health, Public Health France, to permanently remedy these dysfunctions and to ensure that the Prime Minister's speech before the national representative is respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u81	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u82	I have indicated – and this is what will happen – that the classification of each department of France as a green or red zone would be based on the synthesis of three sets of criteria, not three unique criteria. The first set of criteria measures the prevalence of cases in a given department, which is not as easy to measure as it appears. The first criterion we used was, if I may say so, an indication of pressure: we observed the number of Covid patients arriving in an emergency department. This is an interesting indicator but which, when used alone, could lead to somewhat absurd effects. Imagine, for example, that in a department, a small emergency department accommodates a surprisingly high number of Covid patients – this can happen. You would then get an aberrant result. Still imagine that some, but not all, departments are conducting systematic screening of people most exposed to the virus, such as the staff of housing institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – or hospitals, at a time when the indicator is being built. This could have happened. They could obtain a result which, again, would not really correspond to the departmental reality, but to a photograph made at a given moment on the basis of a single criterion. To avoid these aberrations, we wanted to maximize the prevalence criterion by including the number of positive cases reached in emergencies, the number of cases coming up from the Sentinels network, the number of calls made to the UAS – in short, a battery of indicators, synthesized on a map, which allow us to measure the prevalence of the virus at a given moment. The first map, which attributed to the Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin, as well as to Southern Corsica and the Haute-Corse, of the colors that were not expected, was built on the basis of only one of these sub-indicators. We have since corrected it by taking into account an increasing number of criteria. That's why the rankings have changed. The second battery of indicators concerns the reception capacities of the resuscitation services. Under considerable pressure in some territories, these services need a little respite. It would be inconceivable to act as if we could easily lift restrictions in departments where the pressure has been very high and where the capacity of the resuscitation services has not been restored. This indicator is analyzed at the regional level. Why don't you do it on a departmental scale? We made this choice after observing that, in the face of the epidemic, it was the capacity of all hospitals in a region that were mobilized to respond to a crisis situation in a department. You know like me that, in the Haut-Rhin, when the hospitals of Mulhouse and Colmar were confronted with a terrible wave, massive transfers took place fortunately to Strasbourg or Nancy, and that it was the whole regional hospital system – and then, for a few weeks, the national system – that allowed the Mulhouse hospital to hold. We therefore appreciate the availability of resuscitation services at the regional level. The third battery of criteria, which is currently the subject of relatively few explanations, is important. This is the operational capacity, in each department, to trace and break the contamination chains. This implies the availability of testing, which is an extremely important material factor, but also – and indeed, above all – the ability of teams to mobilize those who need it and to test those who need it. To do this, the brigades – or teams, if the term is imperfect – that will be formed around liberal doctors and health insurance staff, under the responsibility of the prefects, must be able to immediately trace all chains of contamination. This is the most important indicator of our ability to control the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The combination of these three sets of criteria of different nature allows us to assess the situation in each department. That's why the cards released on the first day were later modified. Indeed, they will be as we publish them every day, depending on the evolution of the indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u83	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u84	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I understood what the criteria were. I just wanted to point out the dysfunction of the lack of consultation, before the map was published, with the prefects and directors of regional health agencies. This attitude is unbearable and runs counter to the will you displayed in the House last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u86	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u87	My question, to which I associate my colleague Zivka Park, is addressed to Mr Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing. We were all moved by the unbearable images of food aid delivery queues. Many elected representatives, like us, feared that this period would further exacerbate inequalities, which particularly affect the priority neighbourhoods of the city, where single mothers, pensioners and social minimums live, or job seekers. There are also those heroes of the daily applause every evening at 20 o'clock. They are caregivers, delivery agents, life attendants, cashiers, mechanics, stretchers and teachers. Every day, they keep life going. Back home, they come alongside those who remain confined to participate in the national effort to combat the epidemic, in HLM towers, sometimes in suffering – confined to housing that seems smaller and smaller as time passes, sometimes even in unbearable unsanitary conditions, plus food insecurity. They are plunged into silent distress, because they do not know how to provide school at home, for lack of digital equipment, or because they do not have the financial means to provide three meals a day to their children. And what about those who don't even have a roof? We knew, at the announcement of confinement, that those who suffered would suffer more. You yourself, minister, were one of those who knew. Very quickly, you made decisions to support the associations, which do a great job, as volunteers spare neither their time nor their efforts. The Government as a whole has made sure to provide strong responses where there are none. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and some Members of the MODEM Group]] What decisions have been taken to alleviate these sufferings, to alleviate this distress or to compensate for these inequalities in the school environment, so as not to leave anyone at the side of the road?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u89	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u90	You're talking about a silent distress. You are right: distress, most often, has no conversation. She hurts, she reaches the dignity of those she touches, in some parts of our country. This is all the more unbearable because France, which has continued to work for others in supermarkets, hospitals or businesses, is often France in these neighbourhoods. I too, far from the clichés often conveyed, want to pay tribute to their inhabitants, without minimizing in any way the difficulties we face. Yes, there are difficulties. They are sometimes of a food nature. In the face of the growing number of precarious and modest families asking for food aid, we, together with Christelle Dubos and Olivier Véran, launched an emergency food aid plan, providing for the allocation of €50 million to accompany associations or issue service cheques. There are also many modest families whose children no longer have access to the canteen, which often costs very little. To meet their needs, the Prime Minister has decided to create an exceptional social assistance which will be paid, without any steps, to all families receiving the APL – personalized housing assistance – the RSA – active solidarity income – or the ASS, the specific solidarity allowance, from 15 May. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Beyond this social emergency, the educational emergency is expressed. This is the purpose of the measure we have taken, together with Jean-Michel Blanquer, to help children who are too far from school, often because of a lack of access to digital technology. This subject was very dear to our former colleague Corinne Erhel, who died three years ago to the day, who had fought for this cause. We have created a €10 million fund to help these families access digital technology. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The urgency is both social and educational. It is to answer that we are fighting with you – which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u91	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u92	Prime Minister, in your statement on de-confinination, you referred to territorial differentiation and called for trust in local genius. I want to tell you that this is not what is happening today in the field. This is not what is happening with schools, to which has been sent a 60-page health protocol, often inapplicable, that creates anxiety in the educational community and in the parents. This is not the case for transport, especially for schools: if the guidelines are applied, some children cannot be transported. And in the EHPADs, the long-awaited visits almost always take place outside: it is a pity that we were not able to be consulted. I would add, Prime Minister, that we will have to succeed on 2 June. Indeed, it will not be a matter of applying a uniform framework for bars, restaurants, tourist sites and cultural sites: it will be necessary to apply territory by territory. Faced with this virus with which we have to learn to live, and for a long time, we do not need circular-rivers but concise framing. Very often, local elected officials feel that the government services do not regard them as partners but as implementers, and they dislodge them. The fight against the health crisis must be organised by living pool, by allowing the territories to make hand-sewn and by giving them a genuine decision-making capacity in terms of timing, perimeter and deconfinity. They will assume their responsibilities. In any case, Prime Minister, I am one of those who do not plan to get rid of it. So, are you ready to give real room for manoeuvre to the territories, which are on the front line in the face of this health and economic crisis and are the key players in the country's economic transformation and its long-awaited rebound?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u93	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u94	Mr Vigier, I said that we could only find practical solutions by trusting the actors on the ground, while respecting the health doctrine – because we believe that if we did not formulate a health doctrine, there would be at least as many critics as we hear today on the fact that it would be too strict. We have therefore established a health doctrine and tried to answer the questions that arise most often. As ministers can testify, I have told the prefects and national education officials that there is a need for local agreement on the most appropriate measures in line with the spirit in which we have indicated the need to work. Recognize with me that some of the aspects of your question are interesting. You're telling me that in the EHPADs only a single solution would apply. But, Mr Vigier, it is not the Government that determines how the meetings it has authorized are organised throughout the EHPADs! It is the directors of the institutions who assume their responsibilities by saying what is possible and what is not. Sometimes they prefer that meetings take place outside because it seems to them to limit the risks, and I hear them: trusting the actors is also telling them that, when they make decisions, they are not wrong! There are, of course, general directives – which they sometimes ask for themselves. But I do not think that it is the Government's responsibility to give fierce constraints to the directors of EHPAD – who are also subject to many different statutes – on the conduct of the meetings. We did not send a detailed protocol: on the contrary, we said that it was important that there be visits, but also that they be very supervised to avoid a considerable risk. You can't say anything else. The directors of EHPAD therefore assume their responsibilities. We sometimes find that they go too far, sometimes not enough – the appreciation is delicate – but we can, like me, trust them to find the right solutions. They have shown, in almost all cases, and even in all cases, their concern to deal with a dreadfully complex situation with obviously very fragile people. We can recognize their ability to adapt and interpret. If they sometimes take too many steps to ensure security, they do so because they have been through a very difficult time with very fragile people. Even if you or some people think they could go a little faster, you can also, in good faith, think that they are not entirely wrong to be even more careful than what, perhaps, they might be content with. As far as the local capacity to agree is concerned, I maintain what we have said. Of course, elements of doctrine have been formulated about the resumption of schools, and of course there are places where mayors and principals find all this very difficult, but acknowledge with me that there are also a very large number of places where deputy mayors responsible for these matters, principals of schools and federations of parents of students are trying to find the right system. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In short, it should not be said that this resumption should not take place anywhere on the pretext that it would be possible only in certain places. It is possible, in many places, to find the right solutions. When they are found, there will be returns to school, and each of these returns will be good news. Perhaps, in some places, it will be a little more difficult, perhaps there will be a little more anxiety, and perhaps even sometimes – I say it very carefully, because it will be infinitely residual – this anxiety could almost translate into bad will. I cannot rule out that this happens sometimes, in an infinite minority of cases. But I think that everywhere, we will find the solution to reopen schools and that every return to school will be good news for the children concerned and for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u95	This is a more reasonable answer than that of the Minister of Education! And he gives less lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u96	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u97	Prime Minister, the day before yesterday, 3 May was World Press Freedom Day and it is worth recalling that the press is free of power. The press is not only a vehicle of information or opinion: it is a power. Who appreciates the power that opposes his? It is a question of balance of forces, said Françoise Giroud in 1981. You have created the government site that, if it does not censor it, sorts out the information. In this connection, I recall that the Secretary of State for the Government had said: "I agree to lie", which has the merit of being clear. With regard to accuracy and truth, exits infox and fake news: only Le Monde, Libération, FranceTVInfo and 20 minutes have the favors of the Government. The others will appreciate it. Admit that this government has the art of opposing, even though it advocates exactly the opposite. The articles on your website, which tell us the right, fair and true word, avoid the subjects that are angry, and those who have defended the Government seem to be very much relayed there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u98	You have to read the good newspapers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u99	When I was a child, the elders called those who lived behind the Berlin Wall the "Reds" – an incomprehensible expression for a child. They said that, behind this wall, there were words that were only in one sense, and that it was not honest. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Prime Minister, does your government claim to hold the truth and expose it through its news site?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u100	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u101	Madam Member, I will try to answer your questions from two angles. The first is freedom of the press. This is a constitutional right that we respect and to which we are all attached here. It also requires that we all be able to have contradictions and controversies. That is part of political and democratic freedom and I am sure that you too are fully committed to it. Another question, which is not a matter of press freedom, is the fact that social networks are often powerful tools for circulating information: in a few minutes, they would become truths because they generate 10,000, 100,000 or a million likes or retweets! Attention must be paid to this, because at a time when, in the face of all the political or legal scientific authorities, there is always someone to come and search for conspiracy or conspiracy, these formidable tools can also reveal their dark side. You are right to recall this, it is also part of the diversity of the press, and that is why I am attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u102	Read Humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u103	Mr Jumel, I am also attached to L'Humanité, as well as to the diversity of the press: let us recognize that if there were only L'Humanité, we would be bored!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u104	But if Humanity did not exist, it would have to be invented!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u105	It takes a little bit of everything in the diversity of opinions. Madam Member, let us distinguish between things: the Government is committed to freedom of the press. Let us acknowledge that the press is not stingy with compliments, but neither is it critical. That is very good, because that is democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, let us be vigilant about tools that sometimes do not inform but disinformation, and pose serious questions in a democracy, for the government as well as for all the politicians that we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u106	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u107	The issue of masks has already been raised, rightly because it is the original sin of this epidemic crisis. Prime Minister, I will also ask you about access to masks, which are essential equipment for all our compatriots. I will not go back to your risky and confusing management of the crisis with regard to masks. The time will come for the conclusions, as you said a moment ago, Prime Minister, but know that unbelief and disarray prevail in the territories, as the French are weary of contradictory announcements from your government. I've listened to the previous answers to the masks. To date, many health professionals still lack protective masks. The truth is that the state can't provide them with it. At the dawn of a decline in the number of masks, which gives rise to growing concern about its date, we discover that the large distribution has managed to build up very large stocks of masks and, it must be said, has doubled the state. How did our France, how did the state become powerless to the point of being supplanted in its own missions by supermarket signs? Why, above all, have you been unable to preempt these masks to distribute them first and foremost to the medical professions that need them so much? Today we learn that the Ministry of Health has deterred pharmacies from selling masks since March 23rd. It's unbearable and incomprehensible. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, how can you indicate that there will be – I quote – enough masks to meet the needs from 11 May, while speech therapists, physiotherapists and orthoptists, for example, are struggling to obtain such equipment and that, to date, the majority of French people have not been able to obtain them. In addition to the health and economic shock, do not cause a democratic shock. Meet the expectations of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u108	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u109	There's no health minister anymore? He's not coming to see us anymore?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u110	He's in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u111	There is indeed a second chamber in our democracy: the Senate, where the Minister of Health is currently located. There are even three, with the Economic, Social and Environmental Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u112	No, there's no third room!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u113	Please, the topics we address are serious enough not to get lost in unnecessary polemics. Mr President, to answer your question very precisely, I would like to point out that over the last two months we have distributed nearly 300 million masks to health professionals. Forty-five million masks are distributed to them every week, which will be increased to 100 million tomorrow. You will understand that in the phase of containment, the strategy for the distribution of health masks is intended to evolve and I will give some details about the professions you mentioned. As of May 11, fourteen masks per week will be issued on prescription to patients of the Covid-19, as well as to persons who have been in contact with them, upon indication of health insurance. Ten masks per week can be attributed to persons with high medical risk, including through the clinics. There is no reason to oppose large-scale distribution to the public authorities or the state to local authorities or businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u114	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u115	As the Prime Minister has said, in order to ensure that all our citizens have the opportunity to have masks on 11 May, we must all be united. As far as healthcare professionals are concerned, we will, for liberal caregivers – doctors, dentists, nurses... – raise the weekly number to twenty-four surgical masks, or sometimes FFP2. For the other professions – pharmacists, physiotherapists, midwives... – it will be eighteen masks a week. For home helpers, 15 masks per week and 12 masks per week for other health professions – opticians or psychologists for example. Finally, medical and social institutions will see their stock increase by almost 50%. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You see, honourable Member, that all health care professionals will be staffed by May 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you know, Mr Secretary of State, parliamentarians believe that the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, venerable and very respectable institution, is a council, as its name indicates, and not a chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u118	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u119	Thank you for that precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u120	But let's avoid the quarrels to sleep standing about the rooms, it'll be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u121	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u122	My question to the Minister of Solidarity and Health is about masks. Indeed, deconfining will require for long weeks the use of protective masks, the wearing of which is recommended and will be made mandatory in places where social distancing rules cannot be applied systematically, as in public transport. The large distribution already sells them – with questions about the stocks constituted. In itself, this could be good news: for weeks, healthcare professionals and all those in contact with the public in times of containment had sought so much! But the concerns are strong. The AFNOR website – Association française de normalisation – recommends that anyone working outside should change their mask three times a day, at least every four hours. As the standard price of the mask varies from 30 to 50 cents of euros, these three changes would mean that each person at work would incur an expense of 24 to 30 euros per month. For fabric masks, with an optimal duration of 30 minutes and which could be washed 10 to 20 times, the cost could be 10 to 15 euros per person per month. If your children go to school and your spouse works, you need more money. It is therefore imperative that free or assisted access to masks, whatever they may be, be guaranteed to the most modest, to people with fragile health, to employees and to professionals. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] My question is simple: how will our fellow citizens identify effective and therefore certified masks? Who will control the quality of the masks worn? What help will be provided to the most modest and fragile? What measures do you envisage to ensure that all our citizens have access to the cheapest – or free – and most effective masks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u123	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u124	He's in the Senate, too? They're all there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u125	Thank you for asking this question, which summarizes several questions from the French. First of all, in what case should you pay for your mask and in what case is it provided by other circuits? As the Prime Minister has just indicated, if your child, whom you send to school, has to wear a mask, it will be provided until the end of the school year. We are currently carrying adult-sized and child-sized masks in schools. Secondly, return-to-work protocols, which need to be discussed with trade unions and staff representatives, provide for all social distancing measures. Where it is not possible to afford it, it is the employer's responsibility to equip its employees and operators with masks. This is what the state is doing today as an employer, and that is what other employers are doing, which we are accompanying in this process. With regard to the other circumstances of life, the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister have been very clear: for healthcare workers and the sick, the supply of masks is handled by Public Health France according to precisely defined protocols, this sanctuarized sector passing through the pharmacy circuit. Again, masks are free. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, as regards the general public, we have introduced a range of textile masks, supplemented by surgical masks with guaranteed filtrations. The full details of the reinsurance scheme can be found on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention will carry out all necessary controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u126	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u127	Prime Minister, you have accepted our proposal for a department-by-department breakdown and we thank you for that. This territorial approach is essential: it would be incomprehensible to impose the same constraints on departments less affected by the Covid-19 as on the most affected departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u128	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u129	To this end, a reliable map of at-risk territories needs to be developed. I therefore hope that you will remove the concerns raised by the impreciseness of your card, for example about my department, the Haute-Loire. Above all, this flexible approach to land-based adaptation cannot be limited to the reopening of parks and gardens or colleges alone. We must go further and push to the end the logic of a définement by department, in particular to allow the resumption of the exercise of cults and, even more so, of economic activity. While it is imperative to relaunch it more strongly and quickly at national level, we hope that it will accelerate with the reopening of cafes, restaurants and tourist activities in the green departments on 11 May. This will save many economic players. These reopenings would of course be carried out under very tight conditions, respecting very strict health safety rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u131	This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u132	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Mr Prime Minister, you are in favour of decentralized management of deconfinement. Then why not accelerate the economic recovery in the departments that will be ranked green on May 7th?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u133	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u134	The map you're talking about, which was announced by the Prime Minister, was released last week. To date, it has three colours, which are not good or bad marks awarded to departments, but reliable indicators, built on three criteria recalled by the Prime Minister. From 7 May, it will only count two colours, red and green, according to the following criteria: the hospital pressure measured through the number of patients sent to the emergency room, the capacity to receive resuscitation services and, from 7 May, the ability of all actors to carry out tests in the department. If these indicators allow one map to be drawn up by department, a national framework is still needed for de-confining. The Prime Minister introduced it here last Tuesday and then in the Senate yesterday, announcing several steps. The first was set for May 11 and will run until the end of the month. Depending on the results observed during this first period of decoupling, a second phase will be launched. We take all situations into account in a gradual and national context, because we must be careful, attentive to our health system and vigilant in the face of the risk of a second wave of epidemics. Be aware that, regarding the economic sector – both local shops and restaurants and cafes – we are looking at the situation in connection with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Our objective is the reopening of these establishments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u135	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u136	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] ...but in good conditions and above all by ensuring the safety of our citizens, whether they are employees, entrepreneurs or customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u137	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] My colleagues have already told you, each in its own way. I repeat, in the tone of anger: for us, masks must be free in the coming months, which will be decisive not only for the health of the French but also for their wallet. We're not going to tinker! Your Government did not advocate the administered economy – far from it – and you did not proceed with requisitions. It is therefore the market sector which will, in a privileged way, distribute masks, which will result in price wars, unequal access and a significant cost to families. There are large groups in the distribution sector that, just a week before the collapse, come out of very large stocks, on which we have no guarantee, contrary to what you have suggested, Madam Secretary of State. How can labour inspectors accomplish their mission on this point when they already have to deal with disputes within companies? We have no guarantee of control, if only on the fact that the masks are well sold at a cost. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What do you answer to the mayors, like those of Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray or Grenoble, who ask you to let them requisition the masks of the large surfaces of their city, by buying, on their municipal moneys, these stocks ready to be sold, to disperse them to all – I say well: to all – their administraters?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u139	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u140	Mr President, like you, we want to ensure that the most precarious French people, the poorest, have easy access to masks. For this reason, on the one hand, the State has organized itself to propose masks, provided by pharmacies, to all caregivers and to those who need them for health reasons and, on the other hand, the Minister of Health has announced the provision of 100 million masks per week for the entire health system, a 2.5-fold increase. In addition, we have booked and purchased 5 million reusable masks more than 20 times, equivalent to 105 million single-use masks, specifically for vulnerable people. They will be delivered weekly to the prefects and distributed to the mayors. I think that answers your first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u141	When? After the debunking?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u142	From the week of May 11, Mr. Jumel. To answer your second question, Mr Wulfranc, the French will be able to equip themselves: in schools, masks will be provided until the end of the school year for children who must wear them; employers who will not be able to ensure social distancing in companies will have to equip their employees. With regard to other uses, I would like to point out that large-scale distribution is studying the traceability of masks and that industrial companies and artisans are currently producing them according to particularly demanding standards, since they have to submit a test to the DGA laboratory, the Directorate-General for Armaments, and that they distribute these masks at almost cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u143	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We should therefore rather rejoice at the abundance of masks that we will experience in the coming weeks rather than regret the situation that we have experienced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u145	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u146	On 16 March, the closure of schools was a relatively easy decision to implement. It was necessary to rethink the methods of teaching, at a distance and most often in dematerialized form. With the very strong involvement of our teachers, whom we welcome, with the help of many communities that have lent computers or digital tablets to families who do not have them, educational continuity has since been ensured. Until this decision to return to school on May 11... It is much more complicated to reopen a school during an epidemic than to close it and organize the teachings otherwise. Relying on the volunteerism of the families, this return to school will not make it possible to recover all the dropouts who have moved away from it. Mayors are on the front line to rethink the reception at the school: operation of the day-care centre, restarting of the canteen, urgent work to create water points or to develop sanitary facilities – all of them, often with a part of the municipal staff who have not been able to return to their post. The current situation creates a lot of confusion and anxiety among parents. The teachers themselves tell us that if they manage to consider the return of three levels on 12 May, they do not see how a simultaneous return of the eight levels will be possible on 25 May. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Prime Minister, I have three specific questions for you. First, can you assure each teacher that he or she will be wearing masks, provided by his or her academic leadership, as early as May 11th? Secondly, are you going to accept the amendments to the bill that is being discussed this week, in order to clarify the situation and completely remove the criminal responsibility of the mayors with regard to the decision to reopen the schools? Thirdly, how do you envisage the course of the school year 2020-2021?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u147	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u148	You started your intervention by saying that entry into the containment had been easy. It wasn't that easy. I refer you to the debates that we had two months ago: many people then expressed their doubts, their scepticism about the adaptability of national education. Two months later, and I thank you for that, you feel that this has been achieved thanks, in fact, to the commitment of the teachers and to the organisation of national education at all levels. I hope that, in two months' time, you will greet the way in which the debunking took place. Perhaps you will then have forgotten some of the somewhat acerbic criticisms that are being expressed today. I'm telling you, nothing is easy in the task ahead. If that were the case, that would be the case. We have contacts with ministers from all over Europe, with professionals from all over the world, especially from French-speaking countries. All face the same challenges, which everyone can enumerate – a fairly easy sport. The real difficulty is, for every decision we make, to assess its advantages and disadvantages. That's where I'm going to answer all three of your questions. First, yes, the masks will be provided: we have done a lot of logistical work, for several weeks, to get them and to distribute them. In any case, a school will not open if it does not have masks when the time comes. We made sure the schools had their masks on May 11 and the colleges on May 18. As for the regime of mayors' responsibility, the Prime Minister replied: there is no particular risk to them in this context. The two chambers will debate it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, your question about the year 2020-2021 is very important because that year will not be the same as the previous one. Either the virus will have disappeared, we can hope: therefore, we will have to take into account the delays suffered by the students. Either the virus will always be present and what we will have done in May and June will be very useful to us in defining a mixed, hybrid and, I believe, successful vision of children's education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u150	We continue with questions on economic and social issues. Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u151	Global air transport – airlines, airports, industrial contractors and subcontractors – is hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis. About 95 per cent of the world's aircraft are grounded. In the Occitanie region, particularly in the Haute-Garonne region, Airbus is the largest employer in this cutting-edge industrial sector, which is now being hit by a sharp brake. Around Toulouse, 50 to 100,000 jobs could be destroyed within a few months. As you will have understood, if this sector sinks, we are going to face dramatic economic and social consequences. The Minister of Economy and Finance has announced unprecedented measures to save Air France-KLM: €7 billion in state-guaranteed loans, and that is so much better. But we must also save the aviation sector, from large groups to SMEs: it is the only French industrial sector to contribute positively, for more than EUR 30 billion, to the trade balance. We must therefore turn this crisis into a unique opportunity to go faster and stronger by designing major programmes, as at the time of the launch of the A320. We need to move faster and stronger towards decarbonisation of the air sector. We need to move faster and stronger towards a digital transformation of the industrial tool, again from large groups to mid-sized companies – ETI – and SMEs. It is necessary to go faster and stronger by launching a new dedicated investment fund, type Aerofund, to irrigate the entire sector. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In this context of unprecedented crisis, in the face of the massive support that the United States and China provide to their own manufacturers, what means do you intend to use to save our entire aviation industry and to preserve the know-how of our SMEs and ETIs from Chinese appetites – and, in Toulouse, we know what Chinese appetites are?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u152	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u153	Who's in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u154	You are right, honourable Member: Aeronautics is a leading sector in France. We are the only country, with the United States, to be able to build an aircraft from A to Z and to have all the necessary trades and skills. You are also right to note that, in a context where commercial aviation is particularly affected and investment programmes are therefore reduced to almost nothing, it is the entire aviation industry that is affected. What have we done in the last few weeks? First, whether it is the State Secretariat for Transport, the Ministry of Armed Forces or the Ministry of Economy and Finance, we were immediately in contact with the actors in this field to accompany them in three directions. The first was to take the necessary emergency measures. From this point of view, the introduction of partial unemployment has saved rare skills that sometimes take ten years to acquire in the aviation sector. Secondly, we intend to accompany the resumption of work under irreproachable health conditions, which has required lengthy discussions with trade union organisations and companies. The aim was to find the right balance to return to work and meet global demand, as production continues in other sectors. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I mean, we have to prepare the next one. Bruno Le Maire said yesterday that he would like to draw up a recovery plan for the aviation industry, a support plan to measure the challenges we face. It is too early to draw the contours perfectly. Nevertheless, we have three objectives: the first, as you mentioned, is to ensure the competitiveness of the sector by investing in the industry of the future; The second is the ecological transition: we are the best in this area and we must continue to develop this competitive advantage; Finally, we may need to accompany certain conversions – we are working on them and will convene tomorrow the Strategic Sector Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u155	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u156	I would like to associate with my question the Members of the Hauts-de-Seine Group of the Republic on the move. The health crisis is a terrible shock for entrepreneurs, self-employed and employees. Together with the Minister of Economy and Finance, we are making every effort to help and accompany them. On 23 April, for example, we adopted a second collective budget which improved the emergency economic aid plan. This support was further strengthened yesterday by the Government, which decided to cancel the social security charges of small enterprises with fewer than ten employees who had to close by administrative decision during the confinement. I welcome these exceptional budgetary efforts to serve our jobs. However, some entrepreneurs, traders and artisans, like many of our colleagues, have questioned me that their situation does not always meet the criteria for receiving these aids. This is the case for sole proprietorships, therefore without employees, which are not eligible for the basic subsidy and supplementary aid. In addition, the Solidarity Fund requires that in the last financial year a maximum profit of EUR 60000 be realized, including the remuneration of the head. However, such a threshold still excludes a large number of entrepreneurs. Finally, some small businesses – businesses, restaurants – that were not in difficulty until confinement could well become so because of the refusal of loans sometimes opposed by some banks, which go as far as advising them on liquidation – sometimes without reason, sometimes on the grounds that they are very small businesses or SMEs that are too young or too risky. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] Conversely, the State-guaranteed price was extended to so-called firms in difficulty, i.e. those that were in reorganization or liquidation proceedings after 31 December 2019. What about the SMEs that were in collective proceedings before that date and that have since emerged? More broadly, can you inform us about the evolution of support schemes for small and medium-sized enterprises, which make our country's vitality and the dynamism of our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u157	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u158	You rightly say, honourable Member, how much small businesses are necessary for the life of the country, not only from an economic point of view, but also because they establish a valuable social link in all the territories. I would like to recall how engaged Bruno Le Maire and I are with these companies: we have continuously improved the economic arrangements for them, taking into account the recommendations of national representation. It is in this sense that we have extended the State-guaranteed loan – PGE – to companies in difficulty since 1 January 2020 and, in order to answer your question, we have allowed all companies that have drawn up a continuation plan and have therefore come out of their difficulties to avail themselves of this situation with their bank and to apply for a State-guaranteed loan. We have completed the scheme thanks to the latest amending finance bill, which provides EUR 500 million in repayable advances, specifically for SMEs, but also through the extension of the solidarity fund to companies with no employees. On this issue, which we have discussed a great deal, we have heard your recommendations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, as you know, our plan will now also extend to companies that will not be able to return to work in May, particularly in the catering and tourism sectors. For these companies in particular, the plan is extended and even strengthened, since all aid will be available for companies with up to 20 employees and 2 million euros in turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u159	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u160	For the past two months, the Government has assured the Covid-19 crisis that it will not leave any businesses on the side of the road. But for the self-employed, traders and artisans who work alone, the situation becomes critical. Fortunately, at the request of Senators from the Republicans Group, you agreed yesterday to remove the condition of employing an employee in order to benefit from the solidarity fund, and I welcome it here with colleagues in my group. Unfortunately, you are going to cause great disappointment among the small traders and artisans you claim to be helping by announcing that you are conditioning this aid on the fact that you have not obtained a state-guaranteed loan. However, both devices are not comparable and should not be exclusive to each other. This exclusion will not fail to disadvantage many entrepreneurs, while the vast majority of them have no visibility on the resumption of their business. There is also the question of company rents: very few private owners can do it thanks to tenant companies. These owners are often modest pensioners whose rent constitutes a substantial part of the monthly retirement. What answer do you propose in order to avoid these small businesses an increase in debts and, to the modest pensioners owners, financial difficulties? In addition, with the approach of decoupling, these entrepreneurs will have to pay, without knowing how to do so, the debt created by the carry-over of tax charges and borrowings. Beyond social security charges, I ask you to tell us if you are prepared to cancel the tax charges for all hotels, cafes, restaurants and shops; I ask you to tell us whether the State will take over the unknown interest to date which will not fail to be generated by the unreimbursed EMPs within the contractual time limits. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Finally, what about our request for an extension of the EMP? What about our request for an extension of the solidarity fund of EUR 7 billion at present, a very modest fund if we consider the difficulties of our small businesses and the support they will need when they leave the confinement, in order to promote economic recovery?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u162	As you said, Mr President, we have improved this mechanism, thanks, I insist, to our exchanges with the national elected representatives but also with the elected representatives on the ground. I would also like to point out that the regions initially intended that the second part of the fund should only benefit companies with one or more employees, and that the discussion was fruitful, since we collectively decided to extend the fund's benefits. So you can at least grant us consideration of the land. Beyond that, I would like to point out that the second part of the fund, the additional EUR 5000 to which small traders and artisans can claim, aims precisely at covering the rental charges they have to pay – which also allows the small retiree who lives only from his rents, to keep them. So this is a precise and concrete answer to your question. Moreover, you know that, for two months already, at the request of traders and artisans, it is possible to obtain a tax relief of its direct taxes. This measure has been in effect since mid-March. It is certainly not automatic, but when you raise particular cash flow difficulties – you will find the necessary information, very complete, on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Finance in its part on the accompaniment of enterprises – it is quite possible to activate this device. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, I welcome the creation of a EUR 7 billion solidarity fund, with the participation of the regions to the tune of EUR 500 million and insurance to the tune of EUR 400 million, and the development of a complementary scheme for restaurants and tourist activities, to which we continue to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u163	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u164	One of the forces, one of the wealth of the group of deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left is its ultramarine component. For the past three weeks, however, our ultramarine colleagues have alerted you to the very worrying situation of air cargo destined for the overseas territories. Indeed, while the number of rotations was divided by seventeen in the West Indies and Air France finds itself in a monopoly or quasi-monopoly situation on overseas services, the cost of freight is multiplied by three or four. The additional cost is such that large distribution no longer uses air freight and local producers can no longer follow for their supplies. The poultry sector is, for example, in great difficulty. Worse still, companies have every difficulty in bringing in the necessary health protection equipment for the safety of their personnel in anticipation of the defunction. Our concerns are all the greater because the prolonged closure of the Orly platform, on the one hand, and the warning by the President of the International Air Transport Association of the 50% increase in ticket prices in the event of the application of flight distancing measures, on the other hand, pose serious uncertainties as regards the air service to our overseas territories. Minister, territorial continuity and economic continuity require strong measures, including public service obligations. So, do you plan to quickly provide a regulated-priced freight service? How do you intend to guarantee health security without exploding tariffs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u165	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u166	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u167	This crisis is having an impact on domestic and international air freight, whose costs are multiplied by two or three times: in normal times, 60% of air freight is financed by the price of air tickets and, at present, airlines have lost 90% of their passengers throughout the world. Unfortunately, the Overseas Territories are also affected by this pandemic. Since 23 March, we have decided to limit or even eliminate flights in some cases, such as in Mayotte, where we have set up an air bridge from La Réunion. As a result of these decisions, the freight price has increased from 4-5 to 10-12 euros per kilo. Even if this rate is practised broadly throughout the world, we must not be content with this situation. When we decided to limit the number of flights to two or three per week, we knew that there would be an impact on freight, but health was a priority and it remains a priority. However, we have taken steps to maintain a minimum territorial continuity in freight: the airlines Air France and Air Austral provide two to three flights per week at pre-crisis prices. Nor is there any increase in the products or material means of combating this virus, which we send to the ultramarine territories. On the other hand, there is an additional cost for cargo loaded on specific flights that have been set up and do not carry passengers. For consumers, we have worked with large distribution on price moderation charters. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Now we want to take the students home: some 10,000 young people must return to the ultramarine territories; There will be more flights, so more freight, which will lower prices. We are also studying the possibility of assistance. Last but not least, we are working to reopen the overseas territories beyond June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u168	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u169	I would like to use the 24 seconds left to draw the Minister's attention to the 200 ultramarine youth who are studying at the Institute for Training in Administrative, Health and Social Careers – IFCASS – in Dieppe. Promotions have followed since 1964. These 200 students went home to be protected, but we hope that they will return to the IFCASS road next fall because we attach great importance to this quality training institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u170	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u171	Minister of Culture, since March 15, the world of arts and entertainment has been at a standstill: theaters are closed, filming is interrupted, festivals are cancelled, etc. As a result, particularly because of the sometimes complex way in which this profession operates, nearly 1.5 million of our citizens are affected. If they are essential to our democratic life, they are also essential to our economic life: the share of culture in our GDP is seven times greater than that of the automotive industry. This sector is in danger. Of course, on 18 March, you released EUR 22 million to help him, but that is little: Germany has already released EUR 50 billion as an example. The only sector of the bookstore, which we all probably hold, would deserve at least 26 million euros to avoid closures. The two petitions – "Black Year" and "Culture at Risk" – which are currently circulating and have collected at least 250,000 signatures, call for an emergency plan. A coordination of intermittents, moderated notably by Samuel Churin, asks you for a white year, that is to say the extension of one year of the rights of all artists and intermittent technicians to unemployment insurance compensation, on the basis of the year 2019. Do you agree with this claim, which we support and which we believe is essential? Large voices support these petitions and appeals, including Isabelle Adjani, Ariane Ascaride and Marina Foïs. These great artists are in solidarity with these professions essential to culture: technicians, costume designers, lighting designers, make-up designers... Let us not forget the artists-authors, whose status is most precarious. When is an adaptation of the solidarity fund for this sector? [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and a few benches of the SOC group]] What's your opinion, minister? You cannot wait for the President of the Republic to speak. Does your government, which has so often valued the culture of money, put money into culture? Will you decree a state of cultural emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u172	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u173	Earlier, I will have the opportunity to answer a question about false information. You have relayed a very big one: Germany's €50 billion plan targets the entire German economy and not just culture. However, you are right on one point: this sector is terribly affected and we must live up to what the actors of culture bring to our country and to our compatriots – we see it during confinement and we will see it at the time of the crisis. With regard to intermittents, the Government has taken very strong measures from the outset: access to partial unemployment for enterprises employing intermittents; the extension of the period of calculation of the hours which allow to benefit from the regime of intermittentity in order to sanctify this period and not penalise persons who might have acquired rights during confinement; the creation of a special fund for the professionalisation and solidarity of the artists and technicians of the show, managed in collaboration with the Audiens group, so as not to leave on the edge of the path those who, despite everything, would leave the device of intermittance. We all know that it will take time for the live show to return to theatres, concert halls and festivals. We must therefore accompany this important ecosystem. We work with Muriel Pénicaud and my colleagues in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, under the authority of the Prime Minister. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We need to find the most effective way to support artists and technicians who benefit from the intermittent regime. Essential to all live shows, audiovisual and cinema, they are the soul of our culture. You can count on us to find the answers to their problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u174	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u175	Prime Minister, I would like to return to the state of social emergency. I heard it in every mouth: "This crisis is a revealing of inequalities. All right. So what? Let's put this down here and wait for it to pass? We're referring the problem resolution to a better world that, like the horizon, always recedes? Or are we turning our sleeves off right now so that justice can progress? I therefore put on the table five proposals. First proposal: the repeal of the reform of unemployment insurance. The new rules, which you have laid down, will have devastating effects, especially on those who have not been able to work because of the health crisis. Are you going to impose double punishment on them? Are you going, yes or no, to permanently abandon this reform of unemployment insurance? Second proposal: prolongation of partial unemployment. The statements follow each other without any resemblance. Will you keep partial unemployment in its present form, without degressivity, beyond 1 June, including for parents who do not wish their children to return to school? The third proposal is to maintain emergency aid for vulnerable people. Poverty will not defy next week. You have agreed to introduce a minimum of one month's assistance. What will you do in May? Do you accept a moratorium on rental evictions in the social park? Fourth proposal: a right to holidays and school accompaniment for children in need. Why not finance young jobs during the holidays to accompany them, including on a school level, so that they can approach the return to school in better conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u176	That's not stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u177	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] My fifth and final proposal is in one word: justice. The richest must be the ones who contribute the most. In the context of a reformed tax system, do you agree to allocate efforts so as not to deepen inequalities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u178	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u179	You are right, the confinement and the almost complete interruption of economic activity lead directly to a social crisis that will be no less worrying than the economic crisis or the educational crisis, if any, that we will have to face when we gradually emerge from the health crisis. Before trying to answer some of the questions you asked, I would like to make an observation. Even if I do not expect your satisfaction with the measures implemented, I think we could have collectively noticed that they were infinitely more effective and generous than those adopted in the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Germany, the United States – of course – or anywhere else. It's specific to France. We have put in place a rather unique and exceptional social framework comprising very different measures aimed at the most vulnerable audiences: employees faced with a break-up of activity; non-employees who have benefited from mechanisms for the preservation of rights; beneficiaries of minimum social or social benefits. In response to President Jacob, I have already spoken about international comparisons. In France, despite considerable difficulties and criticism of La Poste, payments of social benefits were made at the beginning of the month. In Italy, the government was confronted with a terrible situation and fierce criticism because it had not been able to do so in time – I am not going to throw the first stone at it. Let us begin by recognizing that our country has been able to respond to the social emergency. Some will say that it is thanks to the decisions of the Government, but I do not expect so much. It may not be perfect, but probably no country has done the same. We should be proud of it, defend it and explain it. You are perfectly in your role when you say that some things can be improved, but you should not only point out the shortcomings. I'm not trying to argue, not more than you, but it seemed to me essential to make that remark. I'm coming to your proposals. As far as partial unemployment is concerned, we will extend the current system – the most generous in Europe – until the end of May. It's decided, we're not coming back. Last week, I indicated at this forum that this mechanism should be changed after 1 June, depending on the evolution of the epidemic. Everyone is well aware, I think, that we are not going to be able to maintain such a generous system for companies and employees. Our objective is to adapt it gradually, so that it accompanies the resumption of activity as it occurs. After discussing this with the trade unions and employers' organisations, we will present these adaptation measures to Parliament. While remaining cautious, I hope, like all of you, that we will have passed the hardest of the health crisis by the end of May and that we will be able to adapt this mechanism gradually. With regard to unemployment insurance, we have already indicated that we postpone measures which should have entered into force after the start of the health crisis, but that we do not intend to go back on the measures decided and applied before. On this point too, the social partners, who will face the difficulties of financing all social schemes, and in particular unemployment insurance, will discuss together and with us the adjustments that need to be made. But let us all bear in mind that the resumption of activity must be accompanied by arrangements enabling as many people as possible to return, certainly benefiting from the absolutely essential solidarity net offered by our country and which no one is considering calling into question, but encouraging as much as possible the resumption of activity. I have already referred to the principles that we have set in this direction. You are proposing, Mr President, the return and development of young jobs. This is a proposal that needs to be heard and dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u180	We can call it assisted jobs, if you prefer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u181	The idea is not new. These jobs have been used extensively in the past under the various majorities, although with varying vigour. In any case, we know about young people's jobs. I am not sure that these mechanisms have demonstrated, over time, a clear effectiveness in improving our country's social model – but we will probably talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u182	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u183	I think they sometimes have a major interest and often disadvantages, as I have observed at national and sometimes local level. These devices sustain the systems in place, much more than they allow young people to fit in and find an activity. In short, the debate is old and interesting, but I am not sure that young people's jobs are the ideal instrument for the social progress you are talking about. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any event, when the health crisis is resolved, we will have to adapt our most fragile mechanisms and accompanying instruments. The question is, from what perspective will we do it, with what concepts of integration and economic rebound, and with what project for the most fragile people. It will be necessary, yes, to accompany them, to enable them to return to an activity, to ensure that they can flourish and move forward. It will be a political debate. I do not think the time has come to decide it, but it will take place, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u184	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean-Michel Jacques also applauds]] I would like to associate my colleagues in Dordogne with my question. Prime Minister, the National Deconfinement Plan envisages, in particular, the gradual reopening of elementary and nursery schools from 11 May, under the responsibility of the mayors. We are at their side in this important moment for our communes and for each family, and I would like to greet them. On the ground, many of them are making every effort to accommodate children as early as next week, while questioning this unprecedented situation. Others, fortunately few, after legitimately calling for crisis management to be entrusted to the actors closest to the ground, are concerned about the weight of this responsibility. We need to reassure each other. We must recall that the law adopted in 2000 to clarify the definition of unintentional offences, known as the Fauchon Act, by the name of our former centrist colleague, protects elected officials, like any citizen, from conviction in the event of unintentional misconduct. Under the present circumstances, complex to the extreme, it is a matter of going neither beyond nor beyond this responsibility. Not on the sidelines: we must specify, for all mayors, the points that remain uncertain, in order to secure them legally. So, can you confirm that the State has the power to open schools, the role of the mayor being to verify that the conditions laid down in the health protocol are fulfilled and to ensure the proper management of municipal staff? Not beyond this: if a mayor intentionally deviates from the objectives of general interest, his or her individual responsibility must remain engaged. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mayors, like business leaders, do not claim immunity contrary to their vocation. However, given the magnitude of threats, the uncertainty of solutions, the complexity of norms and the judicialization of society, we expect the Government to reaffirm the law, which protects us all and engages everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u186	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u187	Yesterday, in front of the Senate, on the occasion of the consideration of the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions, the Prime Minister, and I myself, stressed how sensitive the Government is to the concerns of elected officials, mayors and, beyond that, all decision-makers in the area of criminal risk, particularly during this period of resumption of activity. We have also pointed out that the law in force on the triggering of criminal liability for involuntary misconduct is rather restrictive. On the one hand, the right requires proof that an individual is knowingly dangerous and does not take care of others. On the other hand, in order to establish whether a fault has been committed, the criminal division of the Court of Cassation must systematically make a concrete assessment, i.e. on a case-by-case basis. However, in order to reassure the elected representatives, it seems to me desirable to clarify the existing law, taking into account the specific competences of each of the decision-makers and the personal knowledge they have at the time of the events. This is necessary for the search for possible criminal responsibility in the context of the health crisis. As you point out, it is important to remove any uncertainty for elected officials and all decision-makers about their responsibilities for the decisions they have to make during the Covid-19 crisis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is essential, as you have pointed out very well, that this legislative development is in keeping with the constitutional principle of equality and that these provisions, while avoiding excessive criminal risk, reflect the necessary balance between responsibility and decision-making. It is in this sense that I am ready to work with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u188	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u189	Mr. Minister of the Interior, the crisis of the coronavirus and confinement make us all live in a climate of anxiety and nervousness, police as well as citizens. The Socialist and related group is well aware that the security forces have been under severe strain in recent years, between the fight against fundamentalist terrorism, violent demonstrations, attacks against them and, now, their participation in the fight against an unknown virus. However, it seems to us that today law enforcement often resorts to very critical methods. We regularly report incidents of concern. You responded quickly, as well as the Secretary of State attached to you, to suspend the guilty official on Île-Saint-Denis, and to reaffirm that racism has no place in the Republican police. National representation should be kept informed of the disciplinary action taken in this case. The proliferation of slippages that are being reported to us demonstrates the need for a genuine plan to combat racist acts and statements within the security forces, which would involve, for example, strengthening human rights training and better involving the hierarchy. There is a need to strengthen investigations by the National Security Administrative Investigation Service into candidates for recruitment and current staff. Would it not be useful to include questions about the agent's positions on racism and discrimination in order to improve preventive policy? This issue appears to be all the more important since, as confinement continues, many activities usually offered to young people in neighbourhoods may not be able to resume, resulting in an obvious increase in tensions. What policy are you going to pursue so that the image of a police guard of the republican pact is preserved in the neighborhoods?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u190	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u191	You are right, deputy, to recall that racism has no place in the Republican police. Neither the police nor the gendarmerie should accept words like those we heard ten days ago, which I immediately condemned, as you recalled. An investigation is under way, and will have to make the whole truth. But I would like to underline the paradox of this case. The two authors of the statements complained of themselves, because they understood their seriousness. However, a few minutes before having these words, one of the two did not hesitate to jump into the Seine to save the one who fled them after a burglary. At that time, I am sure that he did not wonder whether he was a foreigner, a Muslim or a Christian, or what his political opinions were: he jumped into the Seine. And, a few minutes later, these unbearable, totally reprehensible words... This story shows the fragility that every man, every woman, can have, but that is unbearable when serving in the Republican police. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Your words of condemnation like mine are not enough. We must therefore work, especially on training. The trainings, even though they are currently suspended as part of the fight against the Covid-19 – the students serving dignifiedly and firmly on the ground – provide for time for each of them to fight racism and anti-Semitism. Recently, the DILCRAH – Interministerial Delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred – and the LICRA – International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism – have intervened within the formations itself, so that everyone is aware that we will never accept racism in the Republican police.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u192	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u193	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, in March our planet stopped turning. In a month, more than half of the world's population has been confined, planes have been nailed to the ground, dozens of borders have been closed, blocking many of our compatriots away from France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] In each of our constituencies, an average of 300 French were repatriated thanks to the action of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs; There are a total of 180,000. To give you an order of magnitude, at the same time, the United States has repatriated 800,000 of its nationals. I would therefore like to thank you, Minister, and through you all the consular staff and the Quai d'Orsay, who have made this achievement possible. You announced last week, together with the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, the Secretary of State attached to you, that you wish to go further to support our compatriots abroad, by providing 220 million euros of aid, beyond the 20 million already spent on repatriation, for social, health and education reasons. Could you give us more details about this device, which is also unique in the world? Moreover, the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions, currently in the Senate, and which we will be considering shortly, provides for the establishment of a four-year period for travellers from countries outside the European Economic Area arriving in France. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We understand the logic of this decision in this period of deconfinity, while the primary objective is to limit the circulation of the virus. However, as you know, the dissemination of this document varies greatly in different areas of the world, and some of our compatriots have to return to France for compelling reasons, in particular, unfortunately, to attend funerals. Could you give us more details on this measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u194	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u195	I thank you, Mr. Member, for commending the work of the teams in my department, in the crisis centre and in the diplomatic posts. This work helped to encourage the return of 182,000 French nationals who were abroad, sometimes in extreme conditions – I am thinking in particular of cases in the Andes Cordillera and the Philippines that have caused me particular concern. We have recommended to our compatriots living abroad – and all European countries have done the same – to stay in the country where they have chosen to live. This recommendation makes sense only if we can provide them with the necessary health, social and educational support. That is why, under the authority of the Prime Minister, Gérald Darmanin, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne and I have proposed a plan to ensure a coherent medical support, thanks to a specific mechanism, already deployed, which provides for telemonitoring, teleconsultations, the dispatch of medicines and the possibility of medical evacuations, but also social support for the most affected French families, with a scheme of scholarships and direct social assistance amounting to approximately EUR 100 million. Finally, support to the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger – AEFE – will help all institutions, whether they are in direct management, contract or partner, as well as all French or foreign families, through an additional funding of 100 million, thanks to an advance from Agence France Trésor. We have therefore established a coherent mechanism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] As far as quartet measures are concerned, you already know, but I would like to make it clear once again: the bill to extend the state of emergency, which is currently being debated in Parliament, makes it legally possible to adopt them for anyone entering France from a particular country, if the need arises for health reasons. Within the European area, given the current development of the pandemic, these four-year measures do not have to be implemented at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u196	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u197	Prime Minister, since the end of April, the Government website has been offering a new page called "Désinfox coronavirus". This section actually proposes to lay down what is reliable and what is not, by selecting a list of articles, without even the permission of the editors concerned. This gives an idea of the value you attach to the moral rights of the authors whom you also claim to protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u198	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u199	The Government proposes to make choices by artificially hiding behind the so-called fact checking headings of the editors and thus choosing the titles of the press that can be read and those that cannot be read. But even more serious, you come to face the principle that must remain inviolable of the independence of the press, which is exercised in particular through freedom and pluralism and under the critical eye of readers. I would add, and it is equally sad, that this initiative is also ineffective or even counterproductive. Given the fall in French confidence in the Government's ability to manage the crisis and provide reliable information, not only will the doubting French never go to a government site to unravel the truth of the false one, but there is a great risk of encouraging the public to inquire outside the sources allegedly developed by the Government. Moreover, this initiative comes after the law against the manipulation of information, known as "fake news", or the law on business secrecy, which raises questions of freedom of expression and the ability of journalists to conduct their investigations freely. It also echoes the President of the Republic's comments on the value of organising "a form of certification of press bodies respecting the professional ethics", which was implemented last December by the creation of a board of journalistic ethics and mediation. Finally, it recalls the willingness to implement, no matter what the cost, the StopCovid digital tracking application. A set of certainly ineffective and potentially liberticide-free devices, which are added to each other. [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Prime Minister, after the state of health, economic and social emergency, the time has come to declare both the state of cultural emergency, as Isabelle Adjani so well called for this morning, and the state of democratic emergency. I therefore ask you whether you are going to make the necessary decision, of simple common sense: remove immediately from the Government site this section which is not appropriate, whatever the circumstances, and which depends on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u200	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u201	The proliferation of infox is a real danger to the health of our compatriots, to our democracy and to our society as a whole. For several months, at the request of the President of the Republic and under the authority of the Prime Minister, the Government has been mobilizing to combat misinformation and false information. That is why we have defended the Information Manipulation Act, which was designed to empower platforms and introduce specific mechanisms in pre-election periods. The Government welcomes all the initiatives – many of them – taken by the editorial staff to combat false information, through dedicated teams or sections. I visited the services of AFP Fcurrent; AFP has invested a great deal in the fight against false information, especially in very powerful devices to combat hyperstructure, which is one of the new techniques of misinformation. The additional service offered by the parolat was simply aimed at regrouping the resources to combat misinformation about the health crisis on the same page. Of course, it did not pursue an objective of sorting out articles or information. Yet I can understand the concerns he has raised in the editorials. It is absolutely not for the state to label the media or to direct the choice of the French towards a particular medium. [[Constance Le Grip, Agnes Thill and Frédérique Dumas, as well as MM. Philippe Vigier and Sébastien Jumel applaud]] As Minister of Culture, guaranteeing freedom, independence and pluralism of the press, I wish to inform you that the Government has taken the decision to remove this page from the Government's website.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u203	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the remarkable work of journalists during the crisis; Despite the difficulties, they have helped to inform our compatriots and to fight effectively against misinformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u204	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u205	Madam Keeper of the Seals, as deconfinity is emerging, each of us must be fully mobilised to revive France. It is about putting our country back in working order, and more than ever, in such a particular context, we need flexibility and pragmatism, in a word: common sense. Economic life must resume, but it needs confidence and not widespread suspicion. It is therefore essential and necessary to ensure that health rules and barrier actions are respected; but the possibility of bringing legal action during the health emergency raises questions. The concept of unintentional misconduct must be taken into account. Madam Keeper of the Seals, many actors with responsibilities – business leaders, school heads, artisans, merchants, mayors, departmental presidents, regional presidents – today express a fear: that of committing their civil and criminal liability because of a virus that they have not only chosen, but against which they are fighting with all their strength. It is now urgent to secure economic recovery and to limit legal uncertainty. Article 5 of the European Directive of 12 June 1989 states that Member States may provide for the exclusion or reduction of the liability of employers in exceptional circumstances. Madam Keeper of the Seals, what provisions does the Government intend to activate to answer the question of legal certainty? I believe that those with responsibilities, both entrepreneurs and elected officials, today need the most precise response from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u206	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u207	The Government of course shares your approach: it is essential, as you pointed out, that we can fully mobilize all of our resources, that is also those of our decision-makers, whether they are entrepreneurs, community leaders or elected officials. All these actors must participate in the deconfinement – a rather singular phase that requires a lot of shared energy – with as much legal serenity as possible. However, I would like to point out that whatever the texts, we will never prevent – and in a way it is happy, because it is the principle of democracy – the initiation of procedures. It's another thing to know if they can succeed. As I had the opportunity to say earlier, in response to Mr Cubertafon – I do not repeat my reasoning – criminal responsibility is rather strict and complex to incur, for the reasons I have indicated. The rules of the Penal Code do not allow liability to be easily involved. I have stressed, however, that we are prepared to work on this issue. You also refer to the civil liability of the head of the company towards his employees. Again, I had the opportunity to answer a similar question here, I believe, saying that since the so-called Air France case law of 2015, things have stabilized from the point of view of law. This was reaffirmed by the plenary assembly of the Court of Cassation in 2019: it is now consistently held that the employer who has taken the necessary preventive measures complies with its legal obligations and can therefore exonerate himself from his civil liability. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You also refer to the 1989 directive on improving the health of workers, which allows the employer to have limited liability for acts caused by foreign causes or in exceptional circumstances. This directive allows for an exemption, but it does not impose it; It seems to me that it is therefore better to stick to the Air France case law which I was talking about earlier. In essence, there is no general suspicion from this point of view, but we are prepared, as I said, to accompany any debate that may be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u208	[[Smiles and applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let me note that it is seventeen hours twenty-five and that after May 11, 2020, we will review our habits, namely two-minute questions and answers. Otherwise, the same people who want to come to this Chamber in large numbers are leaving us prematurely. We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-05-O1200.u209	Next sitting, Thursday, 7 May 2020, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the bill extending the state of health emergency. The meeting is adjourned.
