ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the MPs and the Minister rise]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister for Ecological Transition, ladies and gentlemen, fifty years ago, day to day, November 9, 1970, France learned of the disappearance of General de Gaulle. The "great oak" had fallen, France wept for it and the National Assembly, in mourning, suspended its work the next day. Half a century later, before we resume consideration of the draft finance law, I would like to say a few words in memory of the head of free France and the founder of the Fifth Republic, our Republic. Charles de Gaulle never wanted to become a member of parliament. Yet this House was familiar to him. Under the Third Republic, in the public galleries, several times, one saw the high figure of a staff officer coming to listen to the speeches of Paul Reynaud, the great parliamentarian who had recognized in him the strategist of the armored war and sought to make his conceptions prevail. In June 1940, it was still Paul Reynaud who brought him into the Government as Under-Secretary of State for War, but it was too late to reform the armies. This is the departure for London, the epic of Free France and Liberation. We have the right not to be a Gaullist, but every Frenchman, every democrat, must admit to the General that he has maintained the spirit of Republican France and that he has put our country in the camp of the victors. A short-lived president of the provisional government in 1945, Charles de Gaulle resigned on 20 January 1946 and began a long crossing of the desert. Under the Fourth Republic, let's say, the leader of the Gathering of the French People was not tender to the parliamentarians: these "sad players of a dark comedy," he said severely, these "dancers of a Chinese ballet of shadows", these "trote-menu of decadence", and some metaphors that I deliberately forget. It was the time of controversy and its pamphletary culture excelled brilliantly. Then returned in 1958 the time of responsibility. The constitution of the Fifth Republic is no longer that of a parliamentary regime, but in the search for a necessary balance between executive and legislative power, the General gives a central role to the National Assembly. It remains the heart of our democracy, since the executive cannot act without a majority. I cannot do better to mention his memory here than to quote the first message addressed by the President of the Republic Charles de Gaulle to the deputies, a message which was read here, on 15 January 1959, the most illustrious of my predecessors, Jacques Chaban-Delmas: " Ladies and gentlemen, as Parliament begins its work, I have the honour to express my confidence in it, and I ask each of you to take his share of it. "Debate with dignity, make good laws, make political choices and make them clear, that is, of course, what the country expects from its representatives, what they themselves intend to do, what they will do, I am sure. "It is true that the Constitution offers them a renewed career. The character of our time, the peril run by the state for failing to discern it, has led the French people to profoundly reform the parliamentary institution. This is done in the texts. The major changes in the functioning of assemblies and in the relationship between powers have yet to be put into practice. "By doing so, the National Assembly will ensure, as far as it is concerned, the efficiency, stability and continuity of the republican State, indispensable to all major companies and required, first and foremost, by the reorganization of France. » And the presidential message concluded as follows: "There will be, who doesn't know? Parliament's decisive test. If the misfortune wanted – which I for my part exclude – that it would yield to the partial demands, instead of confounding itself with the common national good, the crisis of the institutions would again become threatening. "On the contrary, if, as I believe, it does not leave the trees of particular interests, partisan auctions, or local excitements to hide from it the forest of French unity, then the future, a great future, is assured to our new Republic and, through it, to the nation. Long live the Republic! Long live France! » Ladies and gentlemen, let us meditate on this historic text, some sentences of which are surprisingly reminiscent of our current state of affairs. [[Mrs. and Mr. the MPs and the Minister observe a minute of silence]] In memory of General de Gaulle, please observe, ladies and gentlemen, the minister, a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u2	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u3	[[The sitting was suspended at 15.10 and resumed at 15.15 with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u4	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u6	This morning, the Assembly began consideration of the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility", the annex budget "Air control and operation" and the special accounts "Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification", "Energy transition" and "National passenger transport services" (No 3399, Annexes 16 to 19; No 3398, Volumes II to VIII, No 3400, Volume VII; No 3403, Volume V). It started the budget discussion on energy. Mr Jean François Mbaye, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u7	Preserving ecosystems necessarily involves regional and international cooperation. Defending environmental issues on the international stage calls for France to lead an ambitious and exemplary national policy in favour of ecology. I believe that this finance bill – PLF – gives him the means to do so. I welcome the increase in the appropriations for the mission, which will enable France to support green growth and to strengthen its actions to protect nature and life, but I still wonder about the reduction, once again, in the number of staff. The examination of the finance bill is an opportunity for the Foreign Affairs Committee to examine annually the instruments, objectives and modalities of environmental diplomacy, and especially this year the global challenges of water. The preservation of quality water is a considerable health, socio-economic and environmental issue. Globally, one in three people do not benefit from safe drinking water, and two in five do not have a basic facility. However, the covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the critical importance of sanitation, hygiene and adequate access to water to prevent and control diseases. However, billions of people still do not have access to sanitation and drinking water, and funding is still insufficient. As the working group on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the French partnership for water points out, although almost all of our citizens have access to drinking water services, more than 2 million people do not always have quality drinking water in accordance with the regulations. Some also do not have easy access, as is the case for homeless people. In the department of Mayotte, 15% of the inhabitants do not have water at home. In French Guiana, 42 per cent of the population did not have access to adequate sanitation and 10 per cent did not even have access to basic toilets. Water, combined with population growth, economic development, changing consumption patterns and climate change, is proving to be an increasingly overexploited and polluted resource. Its use has increased annually by about 1% since the 1980s for the benefit of agriculture – 69% of levies –, industrial uses – 19% – and domestic consumption – 12%. It is important to note, however, that these overall distribution figures mask large regional diversity. A North American resident consumes an average of 250 litres of water a day, compared to 150 litres for a person residing in France and less than 10 litres for a sub-Saharan African resident. Water is abundant on earth, but unevenly distributed. Globally, a few states have a very abundant resource such as Brazil, Canada and Russia. On the other hand, some countries have almost non-existent water resources, such as Kuwait and some islands such as Malta or Maldives. The amount of water available in a given territory is an important element. However, the ability to mobilize this resource is even more fundamental. It corresponds to the way in which states manage to adapt to environmental constraints by building hydraulic structures that, in particular, allow quality water to be extracted, transported and stored. This adaptability is based on three factors: technical expertise, financial capacity and political will. The water poverty index, which takes into account each State's ability to mobilize, provides a better understanding of the global challenges of the water crisis. According to this index, countries such as Niger and Haiti, which combine low water resources and major technical and financial difficulties, are in a particularly critical water situation, which is not the case for Israel, despite a low water resource, while the Democratic Republic of the Congo – DRC – which still has an abundant resource – is facing worrying water poverty. Whether it is improving access to water, sanitation or sustainable management, France is actively committed to the international arena. Our country has made a significant contribution to the creation of SDG 6 to ensure access to water and sanitation for all and to ensure sustainable management of resources. As such, we have set ourselves the goal of ensuring universal and equitable access to safe drinking water at an affordable cost by 2030. We also target improving water quality by reducing pollution and significantly increasing the safe recycling and reuse of this resource. Madam Minister for the Ecological Transition, can you tell us in concrete terms how the Government intends to commit itself even more strongly at the national, European and international levels to this crucial SDG? France, thanks to its diplomatic network and the leverage of official development assistance – ODA – must continue to work to make better use of this politically and media-friendly topic and to strengthen its support for actions on the ground. It must also be exemplary on water issues in its own territory, in metropolitan France and overseas. In order to carry this message effectively, as on other environmental issues, France must carry out an ambitious and credible ecological action at the national level, in order to foster, as it has done for the climate, a collective momentum at the service of the preservation of nature and life on a global scale. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] At this point, I invite our assembly to vote on the appropriations for the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u8	Mr Paul-André Colombani, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u9	In 2021, for the first time, the appropriations for risk prevention amount to EUR 1 billion, since the 181 programme has EUR 1032 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 992 million in payment appropriations. It is therefore, at first sight, a significant increase in appropriations compared to last year, of the order of 26 % in commitment authorisations and 21 % in payment appropriations. However, this apparent increase is in fact the result of a change in scope. Indeed, the funds of the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards, known as the Barnier Funds, are integrated into the State budget under programme 181 for an amount of almost 210 million euros. At constant scope, the appropriations for programme 181, excluding Title 2, have a relative stability in commitment authorisations and a significant decrease in payment appropriations by 4.5%. The scope of Program 181 is particularly broad since it covers the prevention of many risks, be they natural, technological, industrial, nuclear or mining. All these risks are monitored and managed by the Risk Prevention Branch – RPD – whose action I would like to acknowledge. While there are generally few serious industrial accidents in France, the risks remain, as the serious industrial accident in Lubrizol in Rouen in September 2019 reminded us. Last August, the explosion of a factory in the port of Beirut also reminded us of the dangers associated with ammonium nitrate, which was already at the origin of the explosion of the AZF plant in Toulouse in September 2001. The nuclear risk also remains relevant. If it seems reasonably controlled so far, it is aggravated by climate change: we must remain vigilant. As for natural hazards, they could become the most frequent and severe in the coming years, according to climatologists, as evidenced by the terrible floods caused by storm Alex. The already very broad scope of the RPD must now also include reflection on new risks, as illustrated by the debate on the health and environmental effects of 5G. As you can see, the risk prevention and risk management activities carried out under Programme 181 are extensive and their importance to our health and safety is crucial. In this context, the preservation of nearly every penny of the appropriations for this programme is essential. I would therefore like to welcome, in this budgetary context, the effort made to maintain the current level and increase the appropriations of the Barnier Fund. However, I wanted to raise some concerns, which have been reported to me by a number of public institutions and state operators regarding the decline in their funding or jobs. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES – is experiencing a decline in its funding shared between five different programmes. This decline is likely to jeopardize the fulfilment of its missions, which are increasing in number, particularly in view of the current importance of health security issues. The Institut national de l'environnement industrielle et des risques – INERIS – which plays a central role in the knowledge of industrial risk, has to face a continuous reduction in its employment ceiling: the consequences for the loss of skills and thus the level of expertise have to be questioned. The Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN –, which is facing an increase in its workload, has also indicated that it needs additional staff to carry out its missions in the short and medium term. Finally, although its mission does not concern risk prevention, the Environmental Transition Agency – ADEME – is in a particular situation: it has a very large budget but requires human resources in line with the programmes of the coming years, including the recovery plan. I will conclude my remarks by addressing a topic which has attracted my particular attention in the context of my report for opinion: flood risk management, the first natural risk due to the extent of the damage it causes and the number of municipalities and houses concerned. For example, 17 million people live in flood-prone areas. A few weeks before storm Alex, the Gard and the Hérault were hit by severe rains. Last December, and again in June, Corsica also faced rare rainfalls, especially Ajaccio. I would particularly like to stress two points which, in my view, would reduce the effects of floods in the future. The first point is the improvement of the practical knowledge of all actors and the development in France of a risk culture, which is too weak at the moment. The second point is spatial and urban planning. Floods have been aggravated for decades by the artificialization of soil and the loss of agricultural land that absorbs rainwater. This can have dramatic consequences for the inhabitants of many neighbourhoods, who face this increased risk of flooding. Thus, in Ajaccio, the severe floods of June 2020 showed the limits of a city's urban expansion policy. Today it is recognized that the uncontrolled urbanization of the city has increased the frequency and severity of flooding. In general, local planning plans must therefore take better account of the flood risk and consider the redevelopment of the affected territories to make them less vulnerable to future climate disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u10	Mrs Aude Luquet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u11	At the outset, I would like to welcome the overall increase in the Mission's appropriations. This budget reflects, again this year, the strength of our commitment to the ecological transition. In addition to this, the €30 billion recovery plan, which also has a very strong ecological ambition, is worth the effort. The events we are experiencing today require us more than ever to accelerate the change to a more virtuous model. While this transition requires significant financial resources, it is also based on women and men who are responsible for putting our ambitions into action on the ground. The 217 programme is precisely the support programme for the implementation of public policies of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities and the Ministry of the Sea. It contains the bulk of the staff of these three ministries and provides funding for cross-cutting activities, i.e. legal functions, means of operation, digital means or property policy. The programme is also funded by three independent administrative authorities: the National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP –, the Airport Harm Control Authority – ACNA – and the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE. Finally, this programme provides part of the funding for the two engineering schools: the National School of Bridges and Roads – ENPC – which I was able to visit as part of the realization of my opinion, and the National School of Public Works of the State – ENTPE – which the health situation did not allow me to visit, but which I was able to audit from distance the management, researchers and students. As I said earlier, the ecological transition requires financial resources and the action of agents in the field. For the thirteenth consecutive year, however, Program 217 saw a decrease in appropriations, resulting in a reduction of 780 full-time equivalents for the three departments in this 2021 finance bill. I hear and share the need to pool and optimize our action combining more efficient and rigorous management of our public finances, but I think that we must also consider the effect of the cumulation of these cuts before continuing them at the same pace. The example of the National Commission for Public Debate is thus significant. At a time when citizen participation is being promoted everywhere, it risks seeing, in 2021, the abolition of a FTE, while it already has great difficulties in carrying out its missions. I have tabled an amendment to highlight the importance of citizen participation, which facilitates acceptance of policy proposals. Nevertheless, awareness is there. The secretary general of the Ministry of Ecological Transition told me that a review of missions would be undertaken in 2021, to consider tomorrow's ministry, priority trades and policies, missions and competencies. I welcome this positive consultation. On the other hand, efforts are being made not to unduly weaken the policies of the Ministry, with certain policies and territorial levels being relatively preserved, including the departmental level. Nothing will be done in the territories without the territories, and without preserving our forces on the ground, which participate not only in action but also in prevention by anticipating phenomena. Beyond this important point which requires our attention, the management of the ministerial pole is exemplary: the forecast of execution is sustainable and operating savings are realized. I come to the two points that I wanted to go into. The computer resources of the three ministries, first of all, with a view to the future development of telework. So far, agents were too rarely equipped with equipment and, when they had it, the software was outdated. At the height of the crisis, 2.3 million euros were immediately mobilised, in particular to purchase and configure workstations. We must now go further. I welcome the significant budgetary effort in this PLF for the benefit of IT resources. Let us not be afraid of telework: it will be a virtuous practice if we take the time to put it in place, in dialogue and imposing guarantees such as the right to disconnect or a maximum number of telework days. Secondly, with regard to the National School of Bridges and Roads and the National School of Public Works, I would like to express my enthusiasm and concern. These schools are strongly committed to sustainable development and sustainable land use. The students and researchers I met were dynamic players in the transition and I wanted to put their role forward. However, I am concerned that the public service subsidies of the two schools are decreasing every year, as is their employment ceiling. This situation hinders their ability to develop own resources, while it is in particular by recruiting new researchers that new opportunities for partnership arise. I will therefore propose by amendment to increase the subsidies for public service charges – SCSP – of the two schools, by an amount equivalent to the five FTEs that are planned to be abolished in 2021. While I am alerting you about the workforce, I welcome the efforts made to target their reduction and, in doing so, to maintain the quality of service of departments, as well as the announcement of a mission review for next year. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] Overall, management is rigorous and rational, and the total amount of the Mission's appropriations reflects a real ecological ambition. I therefore express a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u12	Mr Patrice Perrot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u13	My report on programmes 113, "Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity", and 159, "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" was adopted on 21 October by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. It includes several positive points, first of all concerning programme 113, which is intended to support policies on landscapes, water and biodiversity. Its credits show a welcome increase of 14% compared to last year, or 30 million euros that will benefit the French Biodiversity Office, national parks, the National Forest Office – NFB – and other operators. I welcome the fact that the 2021 allocation to national parks, from €2.1 million to €4.5 million, is more than doubling, which in particular will help the parks maintain and renovate their housing stock. I also welcome the significant increase in the contribution of the Department of Ecological Transition to the operation of the NFB, from €5 million to €12 million. The OFB, for its part, will benefit from additional budgetary appropriations of EUR 10 million, which will offset the same levy made last year on its working capital. It should also be noted that the recovery plan foresees that EUR 300 million will be spent on water networks and the modernisation of sewerage stations, including overseas, EUR 135 million on ecological restoration operations and EUR 60 million on protected areas, which directly concern OFB. In fact, the OFB will receive an additional €85 million in 2021, including €45 million for the overseas water networks – where the OFB plays the role of water agencies –, €19 million for protected areas, €20 million for ecological restoration projects and €3 million for the hedge plan, which aims to plant an additional 7000 kilometres of hedges in addition to the sustainable management of 90,000 kilometres of existing hedges. Finally, EUR 10 million will be devoted, as in 2019 and 2020, to the pursuit of the biodiversity plan's objectives. I turn to the main concerns raised by programmes 113 and 159. The first is related to the NFB's growing debt, whose resources are no longer sufficient to meet its needs, particularly as a result of falling revenues from the sale of timber. This is a comprehensive reform that needs to be corrected, and our colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot has recently made proposals to this effect. On this subject, we must move forward effectively and collegiately. Of course, the OFB has a better budget, but this year it has been cut by twenty FTEs; I'm sorry. I would like to warn you strongly about the financial and human provisions of Programme 159, which amounts to €480 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations in the PLF for 2021, compared to €506 million in initial finance law for 2020, a decrease of 5.4%. The number of staff of all the operators of the programme is changing too sharply: a reduction of 87 FTEs for the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement – CEREMA –, a reduction of 36 FTEs for the Institut national de l'information géographique et forestière – IGN – and a reduction of 95 FTEs for Météo France. I note that many amendments have been tabled in order to limit or reverse these reductions. Even more serious: I regret the reduction of EUR 5 million in the appropriations allocated to CEREMA. This trend can last even less since its workforce will have increased from more than 4000 FTEs in 2010 to less than 2500 in 2021. I invite the Assembly to support CEREMA; That is why I have tabled three amendments aimed not only at reducing the workforce from 87 FTEs to 37 FTEs, but also at preserving its budget allocation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups. – Mr Hubert Wulfranc also applauds]] Our health, financial, economic and social situation is not indifferent to me, but I sincerely hope that we will reach a consensus on CEREMA, whose expertise, as you know, is inescapable and recognized, as our country is increasingly threatened by global warming, its repercussions and the vagaries of all crises that affect our lifestyles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u14	Christine Pires Beaune, alternate Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u15	Today I am making the voice of Marie-Noëlle Battistel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who is touched by the covid-19 and to whom I wish a speedy recovery. It must be recognised that the recovery plan promises significant investments in energy policy in the broad sense over the next two to three years: €6.3 billion for the thermal renovation of public and private buildings, €1 billion for the decarbonisation of industry, $1.28 billion for the conversion premium and the ecological bonus in order to accelerate the renewal of the car fleet, close to 1.4 billion to create the green aircraft and, finally, $2 billion to develop the green hydrogen industry. The numbers give a little vertigo. These arrangements are very much expected by the economic sectors concerned and will in particular support the industrial sectors which are hard hit by the acute economic crisis and whose horizon is very uncertain. And yet, while these financial efforts are commendable, they appear biased when we look at the evolution of the budgetary appropriations that have been entrusted to me. The aid package for the purchase of cleaner vehicles partly compensates for the net decrease of €290 million in the sustainable budgetary allocations allocated under programme 174, "Energy, climate and after-mines", to these same aids. The total amount of these appropriations is still not up to the targets for electrification of the fleet. As for the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, the doubling of its allocations in programme 174 is the strict result of the substitution of the premium for the former energy transition tax credit, ISCED. In 2021, the addition of these credits with the annual envelope under the recovery plan to accelerate the treatment of thermal colanders does not even reach ISCED level in 2018. The use of these means is supposed to be more ambitious and favour global renovations: I agree. But precisely, if we take into account the overall cost of a successful renovation, these appropriations would only finance the renovation of just 200000 housing units, which is far from the goal that you have set yourself of 500,000 renovated housing units per year. The same disappointment, finally, about renewable energies. The only additional effort by the state will be on green hydrogen, already mentioned, which is not a renewable energy source per se. Its development is a welcome step forward, but it is still a long way to go before actually decarbonized hydrogen is produced and this solution will not be enough to meet the challenge of the indispensable energy transition. However, while the appropriations under programme 345, "Public energy service", increase by EUR 1.2 billion in 2021, they are broken down as follows: 376 million to cover the increase in the additional costs related to tariff equalisation in non-interconnected areas, 295 million to monitor the growth of the annual volume of biomethane injected into networks, 580 million to continue the development in metropolitan France of renewable energy production lines. These 580 million would appear to be a good step forward if they did not fall within the strict lines of multi-annual energy programming. In fact, the state budget for 2021 does not provide any means to accelerate the development of renewable energies – ENR – by meeting our ambitions and, above all, the climate emergency. For all my disappointments, I have given an opinion in the Committee on Economic Affairs which is unfavourable to the adoption of energy appropriations, but the committee has delivered a favourable opinion. In any case, it is not the mechanism of regulated access to historical nuclear energy – ARENH – to which I devoted my work this year, which has contributed significantly to the development of renewable energies. This was certainly not its objective, but I regret that alternative suppliers, who benefit from this scheme from a cheaper and risk-free supply, have, on the whole, invested little in their production tools. I have been interested in this mechanism, because it is both an instrument for regulating the electricity market and a reference for setting regulated electricity tariffs. Established in 2011, its objectives were to open the electricity market to suppliers other than EDF, and to allow consumers to benefit from sustainable prices reflecting the amortised costs of the historic nuclear fleet, regardless of their choice of supplier. They can be considered to have been achieved: alternative suppliers have settled firmly on the market and our citizens and businesses have benefited from a stable price for a large part of their consumption. However, as a victim of its success, the device shows its limits. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In any case, for my part, I consider that it needs to be reformed quickly, before the 2025 deadline. It is essential, for the future of our energy sovereignty, that its fundamental elements be based on the fairest possible price, corresponding to the coverage of all nuclear-related costs and equitable for all. What timetable can we hope, Madam Minister, for the overhaul of the regulatory system? How will you guarantee EDF's sustainability without overpaying its investments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u16	Mr Christophe Arend, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u17	The 174 programme, "Energy, climate and post-mines", has a budget of €2.5 billion, which is stable compared to 2020: we must welcome this stability in the unprecedented context we are going through, especially since we must add the funds from the recovery fund. This budget is part of a long-term vision as it will fund energy transition and climate change policies. Program 174 will participate fully in the national effort to revive our economy. It also takes the opportunity to accelerate the transformation of our economy towards a more sustainable and inclusive model. The programme's appropriations will first and foremost enable concrete actions to be taken in the social field. It is the energy check, which helps our modest fellow citizens pay their energy bills. This is the work of the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors – ANGDM. I know, Madam Minister, that you are particularly sensitive to blackmouths. The agency helps an elderly, fragile population, often in loss of autonomy. The natural decrease in the number of rightholders must lead us to anticipate the future of the agency. His experience of accompanying people who are losing their autonomy should serve as a model for the implementation of the fifth branch of sickness insurance, dedicated to dependency. It is also the financing of the projects of territories, where we close a nuclear power plant – Fessenheim – and the four coal-fired thermal plants, in order to develop new economic activities through the projects of territories and also to help the affected employees to find a new job. The programme also has two policies that are directly involved in the economic recovery effort and the ecological transition objective and, as such, receive additional funding under the recovery plan. The first is the MaPrimeRenov' aid, which allows our citizens to finance the energy renovation of their housing. With EUR 740 million, this scheme will benefit from an additional EUR 1.7 billion under the Recovery Plan. This aid has three beneficial effects: it supports the building sector, it improves the energy efficiency of the residential park and it eventually reduces the energy bill of the French. In particular, I would like to welcome the Government's decision to open up this aid to all households, but also to extend its scope to landlords and all condominiums. MaPrimeRénov' will reduce the number of thermal colanders and increase the number of so-called BBC dwellings – low-consumption building. Households also need to be accompanied on a technical level: this is why we propose that you co-finance the assistance with the control of the project. In the long run, it would be necessary to consider the possibility of making it mandatory in order to improve the coherence of the investments made. Where appropriate, financial support will probably need to be increased so that it does not become a hindrance for households. The new orientations of MaPrimeRénov' go in the right direction and will benefit households as well as construction companies. The second policy of programme 174, which is part of the recovery plan, is to support the acquisition of clean vehicles. The Government has budgeted €1.42 billion to finance an improved green bonus and conversion bonus so as to revitalize an exsangued auto market. For 2021, the estimated budget provides EUR 1.78 billion for the same aid, divided between programme 174 and the recovery plan. Beyond the immediate impact on the market, the aim is to improve the environmental quality of the French fleet. The green bonus allows the massive entry of electric vehicles into the fleet, which will irrigate the market of the occasion in the coming years, while the conversion premium will allow modest households to scrap old polluting vehicles for more recent, fuel-efficient cars and less CO or fine particulate emitters. It is important to maintain a high ecological bonus to support alternative energy vehicles, which will also benefit our industry, which is fully committed to these new technologies. Similarly, maintaining a significant conversion premium is essential to help modest households in the current economic environment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Programme 174 is a fundamental tool for ecological transition and the fight against global warming. It is fully involved in the revival of our economy and is also strengthening our support for modest households. I propose that you continue these efforts. I will therefore give a favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u18	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u19	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u20	Ecology has been at the centre of all political discourse for several years, but the cultural and societal revolution it demands seems to be part of a long, long time. Let us recall President Chirac's famous formula: "Our house burns and we look elsewhere. Can this budget claim to reconcile political discourses and decisions on sustainable development, which prides itself on being the world's first green budget? I readily acknowledge that he devotes a significant increase in the means dedicated to ecology. The Ministry of Ecological Transition – or, should I say, the ecological emergency? – will thus benefit from a budget of EUR 48.6 billion, which represents a constant increase of 1.3 billion. We must add the 30 billion of the stimulus plan for 2021 and 2022. If this increase is appropriate, however, the question arises of the breakdown of these appropriations and the priorities of this budget. On this point, let us express our concern. The first and not the least concerns the downsizing of your department, on which a number of senior officials have alerted us. You have planned to eliminate nearly 1,000 jobs on this mission alone, for the third year in a row. It is true that a mutualisation effort has been made, but it is far from justifying all the abolitions of posts on its own. The Government stated that the abolitions would be confined to central administrations, without affecting the field. What then should be the response to national parks that are declining in numbers on the ground? We must put an end to this haemorrhage – that is what the actors on the ground say to the Members we are – and carry the ecological ambition that we must stand up for. Sharing your willingness to make energy renewal a major focus of recovery, we welcome the expansion of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, which was a long-standing demand from the Libertés et Territoires Group. We are more sceptical about the means deployed, the increase in the appropriations provided for in this mission and in the recovery plan allowing barely to return to the level of public investment reached in 2018 by the energy transition tax credit – ISCED. We also fear that the players involved in energy renewal will be slow to move out of fear, once again, of the instability of aid, with the additional EUR 2 billion planned for only two years. We are also skeptical about the bonus-malus about vehicles, which has migrated from transport to energy. We are cautious about wrong ideas of taxes or bad weight for a particular vehicle. Efforts are being made to preserve biodiversity. This budget provides for an additional 36 million in 2021, plus an additional 550 million under the Recovery Plan. We also fear that the budget will be a little short. In particular, we deplore the too limited increase in the resources of the OFB, which was to be a powerful office – I know you are very attached to its implementation. We are also talking about a reduction in the number of FTEs. This entity was to be the armed arm of our biodiversity protection policy. We are aware of your willingness to amend the renewable energy bill late. We regret it. Renegotiation of a solar energy contract, we are told, to benefit from a surrentability? A legitimate but time-consuming question. This reminds me of the debate that took place a few months ago on the GNR – a non-road diesel – which had led to a fiasco. Minister, the Liberties and Territories Group calls for caution in renegotiating these contracts. The effects of this retroactivity measure could be significant. This decision could be dramatic for our territories. More broadly, we see the increase in support for renewable energies, with a budget of more than 6.9 billion in 2021. Let us hope that this will be enough to achieve the objectives of the PPE – multi-annual energy programming – and the commitments we have made under the Paris Agreement. I wish to repeat here before you that ecology is good, field ecology is better. I welcome the new measures relating to the appraisal of projects of less than 5 million, which promote deconcentration. However, too often, here and there, we see vetoes from the DDTM – departmental directorates of the territories and the sea – and from the DREAL – regional directorates of the environment, planning and housing – which do not go in the direction of green energy projects. I have to submit to you, if you will, the example of a small town in the valley of Aspe, in New Aquitaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u21	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u22	This type of project would, however, be a breath of oxygen – or should I say hydrogen – for our territories, but we are still looking for the 100 million promised a few years ago by Nicolas Hulot. Some members of our group will abstain from the appropriations for this mission, while others will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u23	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u24	The scope of this special report includes quite logically a major subject that should mobilise you entirely: that of the ecological emergency and its consequences, a major challenge for humanity. We need to protect ecosystems, starting with what constitutes its most vital network, the one that allows life, as blood irrigates our bodies – I am of course referring to the hydrographic system and therefore to water, our most precious common good. But this is not the only issue and, in order to take into account the many challenges before us, we must provide ourselves with the necessary public resources, even indispensable, to face, anticipate, adapt and forkow. Operators within the scope of this mission are therefore essential in more than one way. I will give only a few examples, but I would point out that we have been fighting against austere logics applied to all these operators since the beginning of the quinquennium. Ecological bifurcation cannot have the maxim of doing better with less, a little less each year, to end up doing little with nothing. Water agencies and OFB are the pillars of environmental protection and IGN – the National Institute for Geographic and Forest Information – is involved in coastal erosion monitoring, among others. Without the agents of Météo France, how would we predict the cevenol episodes, the storm Alex and all those to come? Without CEREMA, which office of public expertise to think about new spatial planning? The area of risk prevention is particularly affected. The action "Prevention of technological risks and pollution" is cut by €27 million. The National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks has yet to lose 13 FTEs. So what lessons have been learned from AZF and Lubrizol accidents? None, obviously. What conclusions, of the scandalous situation in the Lacq petrochemical basin? None, either. Yet, on this site of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the failure of self-control of industrialists is flagrant, unless to claim that discharges of bromopropane 60000 times higher than standards would be anodizing for health and the environment – and this is just one example. The ICPE – classified facilities for the protection of the environment of the site –, like all over our territories, are almost never controlled and the population, not only pays the price on its health, but must also fight against the opacity that surrounds these practices, fight against the omerta of the health authorities on epidemiological studies, fight against the cynical complacency of some elected officials and, now, fight against the dismantling of the state, normally responsible for protecting them. It is on purpose that this mission is subjected to austerity on an unprecedented scale. The Department and its operators have lost a total of 8195 FTEs since 2017. With the abolition of 1314 FTEs planned for 2021, a 15% reduction in the number of staff has taken place since the beginning of President Macron's quinquennium. We are already experiencing the concrete effects of global warming. Biodiversity is eroding at an unprecedented rate. The scientific reports that sound the alarm ring are accumulating. We cannot support such a weakening of the state from the environmental emergency and from the planning imperative, contrary to the general interest and the protection of the health of our fellow citizens. As it stands, the Group of the European People's Party cannot vote in favour of such a budget, so we have tabled a series of amendments that are up to the challenges. To operate the ecological bifurcation cannot be done without investing significant resources in the operators of the State, which are engaged on a daily basis. That is why we will propose to you in particular the increase of 200 FTEs, dedicated to the inspection of classified sites, the increase of the allocations of the fund for the prevention of major natural risks, known as Barnier funds, to ensure a real policy of prevention of natural risks, and the increase of the appropriations allocated to several essential operators. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your doctrine of doing better with less is, in truth, turning your head to pretend that you do not see the consequences of your policy, which wants to free itself from physical realities. But infinite growth in a world with limited resources is more than an impasse, it is a path to the abyss. [[Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, applauded]] Madam Minister, on November 4, 2019, you were speaking here: "We are crying for eight FTEs and we must all be aware of the almost absurdity of the situation we are coming up with. But if we are to vote unanimously for such an amendment, it is because we come to the trognone. So, minister, I'm asking you the question: What's after the trognon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u25	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u26	I like to repeat: "One being you miss and everything is depopulated". People, your ministry and the operators who work in the field of solidarity ecology, the one we want, are today. Beyond this consistency, which several of my colleagues have already recalled, I would like to start my remarks with the issue of renewable energy. In fact, the Government had recently opened discussions with photovoltaic operators, in order to revise the contracts signed prior to the 2010 moratorium, whose rates were particularly advantageous. According to the Court of Auditors, pre-2010 decrees still weigh EUR 2 billion every year, until 2030, or 30% of all renewable energy costs in 2018. The Government's initiative comes two years after the lower price negotiations for six offshore wind projects, for an estimated savings of around €15 billion. A welcome effort by your government, which is thus seeking to correct the pitfalls of the past, while still a few years ago, it was ludicrously closing its eyes to the financial speculation surrounding these projects. For our part, we have, since the beginning, constantly denounced the way in which our country has committed itself to the development of renewable energies, that is not only without defining a national plan for the development of solar and wind energy, but also, unfortunately, by removing regulatory barriers to settlements – with the consequences we know – and by developing mechanisms to support the disastrous financial consequences. Thus, according to the Court of Auditors, the only contracts signed before 2010 will, in the long term, weigh no less than EUR 38 billion for public finances, for only 0.7% of electricity production. Wind energy contracts will cost 40 billion euros in 20 years, for just 2% of French production. In this respect, the triumph of private interests at the expense of people, the environment and the common good must therefore cease. In our view, it is high time to defend the demand for public control of the energy sector. Unfortunately, the new dismantling of EDF, through the Hercule project and the Mimosa plan, is contrary to this requirement. With regard to the appropriations for the Energy, Climate and Postmines programme, we need to say a word about the appropriations for the energy renovation of housing. In fact, you are giving it a specific effort of 1.7 billion over two years in the recovery plan, with loans directed towards homeowners and landlords, as well as to condominiums. But the account is still not there: the overall resources in favour of the private residential park will not exceed 1.7 billion euros per year by 2022, except for the reduction of VAT for renovation projects, which represents 1.25 billion euros. The amount you are allocating is therefore still clearly insufficient to achieve a number of renovations of the order of 500,000 dwellings per year. In comparison, the Initiative is renovating! estimates the investment needed to renovate the thermal colanders alone at 3.2 billion per year for 20 years, when our colleague from the Socialist and related group estimated the needs to be around 6 billion euros per year. The Government therefore persists on the path of underinvestment, even though this sector could represent a market of 29 billion euros and lead to the creation of more than 200,000 jobs. Renovation of the habitat could therefore be a great tool for supporting the activity, which our country will need so much in the months and years ahead. As for the resorption of thermal colanders, it would represent, in the long term, a saving of the order of 600 euros per year on the energy bills of modest households: this is not nothing, compared to the energy check, paid to 16.5 million beneficiaries, the amount of which is around 200 euros. Together with others, we continue to believe that, pending the renovation of the thermal colanders, it is imperative to raise the amount of this check to 600 euros: in fact, it is not normal that in spite of this device, 10% of French people still struggle to pay their energy bill, when 33% are forced to limit their heating in winter,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u27	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u28	... especially since the long health and social crisis we are going through should have led you to make such arrangements. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not vote for the appropriations of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u29	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u30	At this time of crisis, and at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the ecological transition is a real priority for the well-being of our civilization. It must not be a beautiful word without deed, a meaningless term, a decor to make pretty, a tree that hides the forest. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government and the presidential majority have been fully engaged in environmental action; an action to transform our society in depth and to accompany the change towards more biodiversity, more soft mobilitys, less carbon dioxide, less waste, and more green energy, with the aim of making cities more breathable, healthier land, less waste water, but also to preserve the soil and protect wildlife. Closing of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, closing of all coal-fired plants by 2022, cycling plan, increase of agricultural areas dedicated to bio, obligation for the collective restoration to work with at least 50% of organic and quality products, premium on conversion, end of the exploitation of hydrocarbons: this is only a beginning. The ecological transition is €30 billion under the France Recovery Plan, of which €6.7 billion is devoted to energy renewal through the MaPrimeRénov' scheme. The ecological transition is also the renovation of public buildings, social housing and TPEs and SMEs. The ecological transition is still €1.2 billion to support daily transport and extend cycling, €3.4 billion for green technologies, €1.2 billion for decarbonisation of industry. It is also a EUR 2 billion support for sustainable agriculture, the organic sector and short circuits, to return to the local area and a healthy diet. In this context, I am proud to propose with my colleagues, in the context of the 2021 finance bill, a €2,500 tax credit to accompany the agricultural sectors in the level 3 high environmental value certification – HVE – in order to help make practices more respectful of our natural spaces and our well-being. The state budget for 2021 is up to its environmental ambitions, with almost €43 billion in environmental spending, an increase of €8.5 billion over 2020, which means that the Government and the presidential majority are fully committed to the green transformation of our country. With its green budget, France is also the first country in the world to measure the impact of the state budget on the environment under different criteria, such as the fight against climate change, the protection of natural spaces or the fight against pollution. This is an innovative budgetary practice, which allows us to verify the environmental implementation on the ground of the measures we are adopting. As we are mostly from civil society, we are elected representatives on the ground and this is true in our actions! In spite of the opposition, the Government and the presidential majority are fully anchored in the ecological transition: the acts are there, proof that no political party has the exclusive right of the green. Ecology does not belong to a group: it is our responsibility to all. It is a collective approach, hand in hand; a practice that we can all apply in our daily lives. For in ecological matters, self-respect begins with respect for others: it is with ecology that we will guarantee our land, our ways of life, our health, the protection of our natural spaces and our agricultural lands and, of course, future generations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ecology is our common destiny, and for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the La République en marche Group invites you to vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u31	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u32	Whether it is the energy side, which I am presenting here, or the transport side, to which my colleague Valérie Beauvais will tell you earlier, the appropriations of the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility", which we are looking at this afternoon, call for many remarks and are a source of many concerns for the Group of the Republicans, in line with those which your hasty, or costly, and budgetaryly irrational decisions raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u34	Wind turbines and solar energy are attractive energies, but now appear financially untenable and, in many cases, environmentally questionable. In fact, while the amount of energy produced can be attractive, the overall cost of maintenance and the cost of clean-up at the end of life obviate the profitability of the equipment, and remain the great forgotten of the budget for 2021. As the budgetary programmes for renewable energy come to an end of life, there is a great risk of forgetting on earth the huge concrete cubes that form the foundations of the dismantled wind turbines and of forgetting the problems related to recycling and depollution of out-of-use photovoltaic panels. Similarly, if the additional appropriations for biodiversity and air quality appear to be a positive element, they do not correct the acerbic remarks made by the European Commission regarding France's infringements of the Birds and Habitat Directives...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u35	Even if the Commission says so...!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u36	...and the Court of Auditors' criticism of the Government's poor performance in air pollution policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u38	Even the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which is much sought after by your majority, finds it "deploying" the record of the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u39	Implacable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u40	In view of the above, I can only regret that the appropriations, although at the rendezvous, do not compensate, at the option, for the lack or excess of political will, depending on whether we stand here, on the side of the State fireworks, or there, on the side of its doctrine. Here, there are fireworks, but dangerous fireworks when, as my colleague Martial Saddier points out, the law specifies a range of water agencies' participation in the French Biodiversity Office. Unfortunately, the minister can do without Parliament to move participation up the range, which would certainly lead to an additional €17 million from water agencies, which would be unacceptable. Similarly, the decline in the number of hunting permits results in a decrease in cynegetic fees and ecophyto fees. Given that water agencies pay part of these fees to OFB in the form of a lump sum, this results in a mechanical decrease in their budget. There is also a call from some water agencies in the event of a climate disaster. If the solicitation is not contested in its subject-matter, it nevertheless remains a restriction of their investment capacity, which is not compensated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u41	They're going to be dry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u42	Finally, and above all, there is a decrease in the number of water agencies, which has continued since 2012 and which, indisputably, makes water agencies the public agencies to which the state demands the greatest effort. As I was saying, it's an artifice for the state, which finances well, but it's a hard blow for water agencies. There, unfortunately, your policy is a manifestation of state doctrine. The 242% increase in the amount allocated to the public energy service is only marginally aimed at developing and protecting our energy mix. The main objective of the project is to secure the enormous expenditure resulting from the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant and to cover the cost to the nation. I am glad to see that the control of nuclear safety is greatly increased – that is at least one point on which we agree with you – but only if the maximization of the life of the existing nuclear fleet is one of your objectives – and carbon neutrality is one, is it not? However, I am sorry for the closure of the Fessenheim power plant, which, as early as September 2020, led to the re-ignition of all our coal-fired power plants, or made France dependent on its European neighbours, to whom it has to buy a lot of electricity. What has become of France's energy independence? Once again, I ask you the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u43	Alas...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u44	Let's go to clean-up. If, in the area of risk prevention, the appropriations increase due to the creation of two new measures to strengthen INERIS, on the one hand, and the fund for the prevention of major natural risks, on the other hand, an observation is inevitably made. The management of polluted soils continues to be the poor parent of the "Technological risk and pollution prevention" programme, and the Ecological Transition Agency will clearly receive even less resources in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u45	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u46	The residents of the former Néry-Saintines landfill in the Oise, like those of the many other abandoned chemical dumps in France, will still have to wait. I will conclude with a word on agriculture. In the first place, farmers will be happy to work the land and raise their animals, provided that the support they need in their efforts to protect the soil is sincere, sustainable, and our agriculture is internationally defended and protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u47	We love animals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u48	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] As you will understand, the Republican Group will not vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u49	Magistral!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u50	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u51	The credits of the "Energy, climate and post-mines" programme, backed by a recovery plan, support strong ambitions for France's energy transition. They will help reduce the CO footprint of our country, whether in terms of mobility or housing. These positive points can be seen from a few figures: 2.8% increase in appropriations compared to the 2020 budget; for mobility, EUR 2 billion for green hydrogen and EUR 1.28 billion for the clean vehicle premium; for housing, 3.7 billion for thermal renovation of buildings and 500 million for energy renovation of social housing. You will have understood this: the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats emphasises the ambitions of these appropriations. In return, I should like to point out to you that it is equally important to consider how we will achieve these ambitions on the ground, which we will translate into action, and which we will actually achieve. In this regard, I would like to take three examples revealing the dysfunctions and limitations that we sometimes encounter, countering our ambitions. The first example is that of methanization. In the framework of multiannual energy programming, we set ambitious targets in this area; And its development is hampered – at least I can say – by the revision of prices, as well as by all the modalities and decrees for the implementation of the laws that we adopt here. The whole lack of readability, hence the chill of investors who would like to rely on methanization. The consequences are negative for the green economy, while we say that our credits, in addition to reducing CO emissions, must create jobs in this sector: here we have a typical demonstration of the reasons that sometimes prevent these jobs from coming into being. These regular revisions of existing mechanisms also concern photovoltaics and wind energy. Of course, we need a relevant, effective public expenditure, we must not devote public funds to enriching project sponsors, but we must also ensure that the measures introduced are in place. The second example is the electrification expense amortization fund, the FACE. The recovery plan will increase its appropriations by EUR 50 million, which is a real reversal of their trajectory: in recent years they have tended to decline. However, beyond rural electrification, they contribute to the energy transition, hence the enlargement by the EPP of the arrangements which can be financed from this fund. Today, the difficulty is as follows: the new municipalities are not certain to be considered rural communes and therefore eligible for the FACÉ for their work. Unlike the case of methanisation, this is a matter of updating the rules applicable to the municipalities, which would also send a real signal to the energy unions. I wanted to address them on the occasion of my speech: they are the local governance bodies of the energy transition. The third example is MaPrimeRenov'. Current procedures place companies in the final stage: in other words, they will be paid last. Make sense, you'll tell me. But is it the same logic as the recovery plan, which aims to boost our economy, and the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – about which we had defended payment deadlines in this House? Let us ensure that, within the framework of MaPrimeRenov', these deadlines are not too long for companies: they may be discouraged, even though it is their responsibility to carry out the work and therefore to help achieve the objectives we set. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Our group will be in favour of these appropriations; However, we repeat to you, minister, be careful to take into account the manner in which the measures we are implementing here are being implemented. All the conditions must be in place for the ambitions we are debating in this House to be translated into concrete objectives and effective measures on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u52	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u53	I am speaking again on behalf of Marie-Noëlle Battistel. The Government wished to make the ecological transition a major focus of the second half of the quinquennium. This intention was to be reflected, on the one hand, in the Act of 8 November 2019 on energy and climate, and, on the other hand, in the Citizens' Climate Convention. While the latter has not yet produced any concrete effects, which seem to be referred to the Greek calends, the legislative process has been successful. During the examination of this text, we did not always agree with our rapporteur, Anthony Cellier, on the means. However, convergence has taken place with regard to the objectives, including the inclusion in the law of the ecological and climate emergency, the carbon neutrality of the housing stock in 2050 and the elimination of thermal colanders in ten years. A year later, our disappointment is great at the lack of resources deployed by the Government. As draftsman of the opinion, I have taken note of the exceptional effort made in favour of hydrogen, which opens up important prospects for the transport sector, provided that we are able quickly to ensure that green hydrogen is economically viable. However, the building remains the main source of energy consumption, accounting for 40 per cent, of which three quarters are for housing alone. It must be noted, however, that in this area, between the efforts announced, the reality of the figures and the state of need, there are still considerable differences. There are two major obstacles to the energy renewal of housing: on the one hand, the complexity of the aids and procedures, and on the other hand, the rest for some households. On the first point, you take a step in the right direction, bringing together most of the aids within the MaPrimeRenov' device. You have also heard the request we have been making for the past two years to extend this scheme to homeowners and to all deciles. However, instead of increasing the budget at the same time as the number of beneficiaries, you have made the opposite choice: to cut the amount of aid. In July, for example, you tightened eligibility rules according to the regulations of the National Housing Agency, the ANAH: you limit the area of eligible isolated walls to 100 square metres, which corresponds to an average housing of 47 square metres, while the average area of old dwellings is 80 square metres. There is a real inconsistency here. You have also reduced the aid ceiling from €75 to €60 per square metre for modest households, from €100 to €75 for very modest households, which could break the leverage effect of the scheme. By increasing their remaining costs, you will not be able to create the momentum necessary to achieve the renovation objectives: we will talk about it again next year. The work carried out by the association negaWatt as well as by the Institute of Climate Economics, and our own preparatory work for our proposal for a law creating a climate premium, estimate between 6 and 7 billion euros per year the budget needed, excluding any other funding, so that the level of subsidies can achieve the target of 500,000 renovations per year. This figure is itself a minimum if we are to hope to meet the 2050 deadline. Although energy policy allocations progressed in 2021 as a result of the recovery plan, they remained very inadequate. Between the 2021 portion of the recovery plan and the credits of MaPrimeRénov', it is painfully 1.7 billion for next year, i.e. – as I have already said – the level of the energy transition tax credit in 2015 and 2016. This is less than the ISCED's 2 billion tax expenditures in 2018; This is even much less than the 2.6 billion mobilized in 2009 and 2010 under the previous economic recovery plan! If we rely on the average cost of a complete and efficient renovation, your credits will make it possible to finance less than 200000: we are far from the target of 500,000 homes renovated per year, and further from the needs, estimated at 750,000 renovations per year. Minister, we cannot respond to the environmental and climate emergency by spending less than ten years ago on the energy transition of housing. On the other hand, in terms of the conversion bonus and the ecological bonus, there is the best. For 2021, the recovery plan plans to allocate 1.3 billion commitment authorities and 732 million payment appropriations to the conversion premium: this is good news. However, while the "Relaunch Plan" mission provides a real effort, the mission we are interested in today's mission is reduced by 36.4%, or 290 million, its funding for sustainable mobility grants. [[Applause on several SOC benches. – Mr Hubert Wulfranc also applauds]] In view of all that I have just mentioned, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the appropriations for this mission. I would also like to have touched on the subject of the energy check: I hope that our amendment on this subject will receive your approval, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u54	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u55	"What's the point of taking the same old path all the time? You have to make paths to the unknown. These words are from my favorite philosopher, the American Henry David Thoreau, defender of freedoms and one of the first ecologists of our time. Madam Minister, the terrible epidemic that strikes the French teaches us one thing: we now live in a global risk society, where health and terrorist risks are added to the climate risk. There are two ways for us: that of fear, of retreat, of pastist incantations, and that of courage, of the challenge, of the invention of the future. Today, our majority honors themselves by choosing the second path. In some time, the year 2020 will be considered as the year of the ecological turning point of France. Not just because our country has a historic budget of 21 billion, up 60 per cent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u56	Thanks, the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u57	... but because beyond the credits, it finally gives our fellow citizens an ecological political will, marks the path towards tomorrow, team better than ever the French for the odyssey of ecological transformation. Forgive me for this homeric reference, Madam Minister: in order to meet this challenge, we must be both plumbers and poets,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u58	Watch the sirens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u59	...to talk about the concrete solutions and benefits of ecological transformation for all, and to cultivate, in everyone, the oceanic feeling and the sense of adventure. Let's go back to the plumbing. By its magnitude, this budget first and foremost expresses the political will of our majority to fulfil our international climate commitments by decarbonizing our economy by 2050. To this end, we will make historic investments, in particular 3.9 billion for infrastructure and green mobility, or the strong support provided by the stimulus plan for the energy renovation of buildings. Our will is also to make France the champion of the green economy: as proof, I want 18 billion of the recovery plan, half of the appropriations adopted by our assembly under this plan, which make ecological transformation the engine of economic recovery and the future competitiveness of our companies. Finally, our will is to accompany all actors, on a daily basis, in this transformation; I am thinking of the enlargement of MaPrimeRénov', which enables the French to support the energy renewal of their housing, to strengthen the fight against energy insecurity, to support the key sectors that are making their transition, in particular the air and energy sectors, with 5 billion spent on electric renewables. Let us also welcome the responses that this budget provides to the daily concerns of the French: the fight against air pollution, the support for cycling and public transport, the prevention of natural risks, or the return of nature to our cities and its preservation in our countryside, thanks to a 17% increase in the biodiversity budget. Minister, where there is a will, there is a way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u60	But the slope is rough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u61	The figures in this budget bear witness to our political will, but what about the path we are taking to our country in terms of our vision? Today, it is not an ideology that we need, but rather – I say it on this Gaully day – a certain idea of ecology, which guides us and ensures that we always stay on the path we are opening up. What is the name of our ecological program today, Minister? His name is not punishment because, where some practice punitive ecology – when it is not punitive expeditions! – we defend an ecology of freedom that encourages economic responsibility, scientific innovation and citizen imagination. His name is not deprivation either...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u62	Whip!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u63	...for where some advocate decay and unhappy sobriety, the ecology that we carry is creating wealth and value; it reinvents economic growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u64	It's mitterrandian!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u65	It is an ecology that creates solutions to move better, live better, produce better and feed better. It is an ecology that produces benefits for health, for purchasing power, for the planet and, let's say, sometimes even financial benefits – the big word is dropped! Nor is the name of the ecology we are wearing planning, because where some people would like to have citizens at the orders of the green feathered leader, the ecology we want to put on everyone's responsibility and trust the territories. It relies on coalitions of actors, decides and makes itself as close as possible to the daily lives of the French. His name, at last, is not in dispute; where some dress in green their sad passions and their antisystem struggles, the ecology that we wear is responsible. As a republican, it relies first and foremost on respect for freedoms, education and solidarity to support transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u66	She's ticking all the boxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and LT groups]] The ecology we carry is a certain idea of ecology. We have called it Turquoise, and it is indeed a turquoise budget that will be voted on by the Group of the European People's Party. Be sure, minister, that we will take our momentum to defend this budget with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u68	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u69	4.5% is the excess of greenhouse gases that France emits in relation to its commitments under the Paris Agreement. 2.7: it is the number of planets that would be necessary if all of humanity lived like us, French. Two degrees: it is the limit of global warming that we have set ourselves by the end of this century. Recall that this objective would involve dividing global CO emissions by three by 2050 – in other words, going back a century, but with a global GDP that would have multiplied ten times in the meantime, and a global population multiplied fourfold. 4 million: this is the number of French households affected by energy poverty, i.e. unable to meet their basic energy needs due to their resources or housing conditions. 50 billion euros: this is what France spends every year to import oil and gas – as much money that could be allocated to the collective interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u71	Finally, between 2013 and 2018, only 20% of habitats of Community interest were in satisfactory conservation status. These few figures show that the relative effectiveness of our public environmental policies has been unrelenting in recent decades. There is a paradox in our country: despite the collective awareness of the need to preserve our planet, the energy transition threatens to be a factor in the social and territorial divide, for two reasons: the fear of rising energy prices, and the lack of perception of a major social project. In some of our territories, the energy transition is only noticeable through the installation of wind fields and the rise in environmental taxes, without the benefits of this transition being directly palpable. This is why the IDU and independent group wishes to welcome the work carried out in this mission, with several devices such as MaPrimeRenov', the energy check or the help to acquire low-emission vehicles. These concrete solutions enable citizens to initiate their own energy transition. More than ever before, we must reconcile environmental and social efforts in order not to oppose the end of the month and the end of the world. After the abolition last year of the ISCED for the ninth and tenth deciles, which represent more than 49% of the financial effort, I can only welcome the extension of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme to the whole population, including the most affluent individual donors. Last year, we had already asked for an ISCED without conditions of income, which would therefore be addressed to all donors. But the funding allocated is now far too small to meet the Government's target of 500,000 energy renovations per year. We will therefore propose an increase in the corresponding budget. On hydrogen, after regretting last year's insufficient amounts – EUR 100 million per year – our group welcomes the new strategy presented last September with EUR 7 billion. We are on the right track; Budget documents will have to account for this. On these two subjects, energy and hydrogen renewal, we look forward to having finally been heard after having alerted you for more than two years. We would also like to draw your attention to the ADEME budget, which is falling for the third consecutive year, while the Agency is responsible for implementing the Government's ambitious energy transition objectives. At a time when climate change is becoming a priority in the fight against global warming, we are astonished by this choice. Finally, with regard to plastic pollution, we advocate an incentive tax to encourage the incorporation of recycled plastic and to reduce the use of this material. New Caledonia has embarked on a genuine approach to the removal of single-use plastic. Let us draw inspiration from its collective success. For reasons of form, the amendments that we have tabled in this respect will be discussed in the discussion of the non-attached articles. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LT groups]] In conclusion, we believe that this budget is generally in the right direction but that we need to step up our efforts further. The recent report on the state of the environment in France must challenge us. The efforts made in recent years remain insufficient: out of the nine criteria defined – the "global boundaries" – our results are in the red, even if the indicators improve. The urgency of the situation obliges us to act vis-à-vis our fellow citizens and to seek solutions transcending partisan logic. "We don't inherit the land of our ancestors, we borrow it from our children," said Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The changes needed to protect our planet force us to work collectively and intelligently to meet the challenge of our century. The IDU and Independent Group will work on this throughout these discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u72	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many and rich speeches and for your inquiries and questions. I will respond to some immediately and others later when the amendments are discussed. Our country is going through very difficult hours. In each territory, the pandemic strikes again. The economic and social crisis is already affecting thousands of our citizens. Some might think that, at this moment of particular gravity, the consideration of this budget would no longer really be in the order of priorities. Like you, I believe, on the contrary, that it is more than ever a necessity. It is a necessity for the vitality of our democracy and for Parliament's control over the executive – to which you know that I am personally very attached. This 2021 budget is also a necessity to raise our entire country because, looking forward, it gives itself the means of its ambitions to respond to all the emergencies and crises of our time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups, Action ens and IDU-I]] In times of change like the one we are going through, we must cling to its principles, know how to reinvent ourselves and look to the future. It is therefore a deeply ecological combat budget that brings me to the national representation today. I use the terms "deeply ecological" because, for the first time in our history, ecology is no longer confined to a single ministry. Today, it is finally at the heart of France's budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Budget 2021 recognizes a new imperative for our public finances: reducing the ecological deficit. To achieve this, we are undergoing a profound transformation of public action. By measuring the environmental impact of revenue and expenditure, we ensure that our country's budget is in line with our commitments. Let us say the word: this world first is a small revolution of which we can be proud. I told you a few moments ago that this budget gives itself the means to its ambitions. You know these ambitions, some of which we voted together: achieving carbon neutrality in 2050, transforming our ways of producing, consuming, housing and moving, making French society a biodiversity-friendly society, resilient to the effects of climate change and capable of facing the challenges of the century. It's a fight; It is also a race against time, in which the ministry of ecological transition is on the front line, with more important means. They rose by EUR 1.3 billion to reach EUR 48.6 billion in 2021. With this historic budget, my ministry intends to accelerate the transition and act with determination and speed for the climate, for biodiversity, for the territories and for all our fellow citizens. It also intends to act faster for the energy transition and the development of renewable energies, whose budget is up by 25%. He wants to act faster, finally, to protect our country and our fellow citizens – our first responsibility, political, human and historical. Because no one can turn a blind eye to the effects of climate change. Floods, droughts, rains and extreme events of all kinds are already more intense and frequent. Not anticipating, simply reacting without predicting or preventing, not building today the conditions for our resilience of tomorrow would be an unforgivable fault, to which I refuse. For this reason, the department's share of the budget allocated to the prevention of major natural hazards is up sharply, by more than 55%. This will allow us to be at the side of the territories, the elected representatives of the field and the inhabitants, in crises as well as in their anticipation, to invent and deploy with them the solutions that work, those that protect in the long term. I would like to stress that this is also a step forward for parliamentary control: the integration of the fund dedicated to risk prevention, the Barnier fund, into the state budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u74	This is the first reason for this increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u75	...will now allow you to decide on his credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u76	That's nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u77	Protecting the French also means acting in their daily lives, especially on the air they breathe. Many of our citizens are chronically exposed to polluted air, which causes respiratory problems, asthma, allergies and, above all, 48,000 premature deaths per year. The most recent studies also show that air pollution increases the risk of developing serious forms of covid-19. The status quo is unacceptable because, in this area too, we have a political and human responsibility: to respond to the health, environmental and social emergency. The budget for 2021 will therefore allow us to scale up our actions to better control, better study and better understand what works or doesn't work, and to support the monitoring associations that make up the front line in the air battle. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Protecting French and French also means being on the day-to-day agenda for those who need it most. Fraternity is much more than a part of our motto: it is an intangible principle that must be embodied in reality, in the budget and on the ground. Winter is approaching, and with it, as every year, the anguish for thousands of our homeless fellow citizens. I am proud that my ministry is at the meeting of solidarity that binds us together and makes us a nation. It is 200 million euros that are deployed in the budget for emergency accommodation and for the accompaniment to the housing of those who do not. In addition to protecting our fellow citizens, the second battle we face at the same time is the protection of biodiversity. Our country is home to a living heritage of incredible wealth, which is both an opportunity and a duty: the duty to act for the nature of which we are fully part, which renders us so much service and without which we simply have no future. I say it again before you, who represent our fellow citizens, our country, its territories and its diversity: our historical responsibility, both yours and mine, is to preserve the biodiversity of our country and to bequeath it to future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u78	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u79	You know our ambitions in this area as well: to ensure that a third of French territory is placed under the status of protected area, 10% of which is highly protected, by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u81	Together with our international partners, we also aim to halt the decline of living by the end of the decade. Again, the budget for 2021 gives us the means to achieve these ambitions: means to create and strengthen protected areas and national parks, which are all safe havens for biodiversity; means to increase the resources of the specialized offices of biodiversity or forests – in short, to meet the challenge of the sixth mass extinction of our planet's history, and to meet it. The ecological transition that I am carrying is a model change that affects all aspects of our existence: housing, consumption, production and, of course, displacement. Jean-Baptiste Djebari will present you with the transport budget, but I would like to point out to you that it is also a tailor-made budget to meet the challenges of our time. I shall cite only one example, the development of freight. Today, 90% of goods traffic is by truck. However, freight emits nine times less CO per tonne transported. Ecology needs it, but the economy needs it too! This is why this budget provides for the reduction of rail tolls and the strengthening of train motorways to drive and amplify this transformation. This budgetary effort for ecology goes beyond my ministry's budget: I think, of course, of course, of the stimulus plan that the Government has presented. With the reconfiguration, many economic sectors are suffering...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u82	It's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u83	... at the same time as women's and men's jobs, which are sometimes their entire lives. It is the role of the State to be with them. With this unprecedented, massive plan, we make the bet of ecology as a way out of crisis. We choose to restart the country by preparing for the future, to rebuild by changing the DNA of our economy. With the €30 billion dedicated to the transition that I am carrying, this plan finally puts our country on the path of carbon neutrality. It allows us to act to decarbonize even faster the industry, transport, construction, agriculture;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u84	And trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u85	... to act to increase the growth of tomorrow's chains, particularly those of hydrogen and the circular economy; to act in response to the call of the civic convention for the climate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u86	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u87	...for example, by fighting against artificialization; to act to invent and deploy solutions that work with and in the territories, both in metropolitan France and overseas: I am thinking in particular of the water supply that is the subject of Sustainable Development Goal 6 – the famous SDG6 dear to the heart of some in this House. This is the ecology that I believe in: an ecology of action, of concrete, an ecology that does not excuse itself to exist, but which, on the contrary, transforms the lives of our fellow citizens and the whole country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u88	To the trognon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u89	... an ecology that pulls us up by responding to all the emergencies of our time, an ecology of territories and progress that creates employment by inventing the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the separation of subjects has passed. There is not, on the one hand, our economy, our jobs and our health, and on the other, climate and biodiversity, nor is there, on the one hand, the budget of France and, on the other, the ecological action of the Government. Ecology is at the heart of this 2021 budget, which gives us the means of our ambitions, the means to act everywhere and all the time to meet the greatest challenge of our time, to decide the future we want as a society, to protect this common good of our planet, our air and our water. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agis ens, LT and IDU-I groups]] As Paul Valéry wrote, the moment we are living reminds us of how "we, civilizations, now know that we are mortal". I believe that, more than ever, we have the duty, the political, moral and human responsibility to act consciously and accordingly. I'm determined to do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u90	If all this were true, we'd applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u91	We come to the questions – in this case, there will be only one. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u92	France has set ambitious targets in terms of energy mix, notably by setting a target of 33% renewable energy by 2030 – just over 17% contractually. This draft budget, including the 345 programme, shows France's commitment and ambition, with €9 billion for the public energy service and renewable energy, of which €5.6 billion is dedicated to renewable energy. I also want to highlight the improvement of the new budget model, which makes public investment in renewable energy more legible. Of the 5.6 billion dedicated to renewable energy, the 2 billion that corresponds to pre-2011 contracts – contracts that, as you said, the minister, have given rise to a boon effect and even caused a real speculative bubble: on this point, we will have to find an answer that will improve the efficiency of the public money invested. Moving away from resources is one thing – and it's important – but we also need to make sure that this budget is achieved, and that's what my question is about. Minister, how are we going to monitor the monitoring and piloting of renewable energy projects in order to achieve the energy mix and the objectives we have set ourselves? You have just justified this energy mix objective by climate issues, but there are also environmental issues – nuclear creates an environmental debt – as well as the need to reduce our dependence on nuclear energy: in October, more than half of the reactors in France were shut down for maintenance work, even if this is linked to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u93	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u94	Minister, can you reassure us about the monitoring and steering of the renewable energy targets we have set ourselves, particularly for 2030?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u95	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u96	As you know, the energy transition is an absolutely essential part of the ecological transition. We are giving ourselves the means of this transition, in particular through the recovery plan, but we must act on a method. First of all, our strategy is spread out along three lines: the reference texts that set the objectives, then the means to develop public policies, and finally the evaluation tools. As far as the reference texts are concerned, we have laid down rules, whether in the framework of the energy-climate law enacted last April, of the national low carbon strategy, or of the multiannual energy programming, which refines the objectives of the law and details them by stakes and by channels. As far as public policies are concerned, let us never forget that the energy transition also involves a reduction in energy consumption. From this point of view, the work we do on the thermal renovation of housing, for example, is essential, because the less energy we need, the less we need to produce it. The recovery plan devotes to this subject means of magnitude that I will not detail. The question of the energy transition also involves the development of certain energy sectors – notably the hydrogen sector, on which we put €7 billion, of which more than 2 billion between 2020 and 2022 – the decarbonisation of the industry, or the strengthening of aids for electric mobility. As for evaluation tools, they already exist at several levels. The President of the Republic has established a High Climate Council, which annually makes a fully independent report on climate policy outcomes and policy coherence, and makes various recommendations. There is also a National Observatory for Energy Renewal – ONRE – which will provide us with much more precise elements as of 2021. On the question of photovoltaics, I will answer you more specifically when considering the amendments tabled on this subject. Renewable energy is an essential part of a more balanced electricity mix. Multi-annual energy programming must enable us to achieve this more balanced mix, which is therefore stronger – because, as we see today, having an unbalanced mix carries risks to energy supply. For this, we will work with the territories: I believe that we cannot develop renewable energy without planning on the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u98	We're done with the questions on energy budget policy. We are now discussing the budget discussion on transport and maritime affairs. I call Mr Saïd Ahamada, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u99	My first words will be to greet the rebirth of the ministry of the sea, which, like others, I have called of my vows. This appointment of a full-function minister has come at an opportune time because, at a time when the maritime and port sector is tarnishing under the effect of the covid wave, it needs more than ever a political incarnation. If I am pleased, minister, that you are here with us, I regret that the Minister of the Sea is not here to present this budget for maritime affairs as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u100	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u101	Especially since this budget is ambitious. In fact, the budget for maritime affairs and ports almost doubles compared to 2020: with the appropriations set aside by the "Relaunch Plan" mission, 225 million euros are added to the 255 million on the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility" to make up a total of more than 480 million euros. This is a very important effort. On the maritime side, the appropriations under the 205 Maritime Affairs programme suffer a slight erosion, by 3% in commitment authorities, due to the decrease in investment expenditure programmed on a multiannual basis to renew the fleet and the information systems of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. While the previous modernisation plan, with an overall amount of EUR 30 million, came to an end, the appropriations of the recovery plan gave it an unexpected extension, almost twice as much, by shifting EUR 50 million towards expenditure that could not have been included in it. These appropriations will finance the acquisition of new vessels – which I hope will be as green as possible – for the installation of beacons at sea. They will also finance the renovation of the buildings of the regional operational surveillance and rescue centres – CROSS – with an energy performance objective. The planned intervention expenditure for the commercial fleet is shown in decline, which does not, however, reflect the real effort that will be made in 2021 to preserve the employment of French sailors. In fact, these expenses included in Action 03 "Flotte de commerce" are now intended to compensate social organizations for the exemptions from permanent wage contributions granted to shipowners for the French sailors they employ, and their amount is in decline for 2021 due to the decline in seasonal maritime employment. However, shipowners of passenger ships, already benefiting from these exemptions, will receive additional aid in 2021. The Prime Minister announced last September that these companies would be reimbursed the wage share of the contributions paid to the sailors they employ, in addition to being exempt from the employer's share: they will therefore pay only the net salary next year. These measures are justified by the fact that amateurs have faced heavy losses since the beginning of the crisis, especially since the activities of cruise ships and ferries with accommodation are again prohibited in France since the reconfinition. The situation is particularly difficult on the Transmanche line, already affected by Brexit, but also in the Mediterranean, for links with the Maghreb. The financing of this measure should logically have been the subject of an appropriation on this action 03 under the draft finance law for 2021. However, the Government has chosen to make these openings in the context of the fourth amending finance bill – PLFR4 – which is not relevant, since these appropriations are not intended to be consumed until next year. While I am obviously pleased that this announcement has come to fruition, I will present an amendment on this point shortly. Finally, there is little change in other expenditures. The subsidy paid to the Société nationale de rescuing en mer – SNSM – remains at 10.7 million euros, the time for it to finance the renewal of its fleet. The École nationale supérieure maritime – ENSM –, the only operator of the programme, also has its grant maintained, at €18.2 million. While management expects a negative budgetary balance at the end of the year, as the crisis has led to a decline in its own resources, this phenomenon is cyclical. The school has also achieved its objective of reorganisation by consolidating all its services in Le Havre, developing its partnerships and gaining in recognition among the shipowners, who ask it to train more professionals – these are signs of its dynamism. I'm getting to the port gate. The credits dedicated to the port investment make an unexpected leap in 2020: the funds of assistance of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF – are expected to increase by more than 11 million euros. In addition, the "Relaunch Plan" mission provides 175 million euros for the greening of the ports, an objective that is fully in line with the new national port strategy, which wants to make ports hubs of the ecological transition. This exceptional allocation is expected to fund some 50 development projects in large seaports, whose list has not yet been finalized. Having said that, since these appropriations fall within the scope of my mandate as Special Rapporteur, I will ensure that they are evenly distributed between the ports, the metropolis and the overseas, and above all that they finance green projects. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we absolutely need to find a solution to the question of the land tax on seaports, which is currently hampering their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u102	We must conclude, Mr Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u103	In conclusion, I am in favour of adopting these appropriations, which contribute to the greening of the blue economy and to the preservation of the jobs of French sailors. I therefore invite you to adopt the appropriations for the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility', as the Finance Committee did on 23 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u104	Mrs Zivka Park, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u105	Despite the crisis affecting all modes of transport, the budget for 2021 is in line with the programming that we collectively voted last year under the Mobility Orientation Law – LOM. It is important that parliamentarians can demonstrate to our fellow citizens that the objectives we have set for ourselves are being pursued, that the Government devotes financial resources to meet the challenges of mobility, and that Parliament votes these funds to transform the mobility policy that will make daily transport easier, cheaper and, above all, cleaner. It is the guiding principle that guided our work in conducting the hearings of all the transport actors. The appropriations for the 203 "Transport infrastructure and services" programme are increasing, reaching €6 billion in commitment authorisations and €5.9 billion in payment appropriations. In addition, the Government shares our commitment to secure the resources of AFITF, as reflected in the budgetary compensation presented in the third and fourth amending finance laws, which are essential to ensure that the planned projects are properly implemented. Above all, transport infrastructure and services will benefit from funding from 2021, which will enable, as part of the recovery plan, support the rail sector and daily mobility, as well as speeding up infrastructure work and the development and modernisation of the national road network. It must be said that the investments are massive: 4.1 billion euros to recapitalise the SNCF group in order to compensate for the losses of SNCF Réseau and enable it to maintain its investments; 300 million to finance the small railway lines, indispensable to our territories and which we talk about so regularly here; 250 million to strengthen rail freight infrastructure; 200 million to develop cycling infrastructure and encourage cycling and clean mobility; 900 million to develop public transport in Île-de-France and in the provinces, in particular to finance the renovation of the RER B and D, long awaited by the Francilians; 175 million to modernise the river network; 350 million to maintain and modernize the national road network and bridges; and EUR 1.5 billion to finance aviation research and innovation and the development of a neutral aircraft for greenhouse gas emissions. The recovery plan represents an unprecedented effort for transport infrastructure and services. That is to be welcomed. I come to air transport, which is the mode of transport hardest hit by the crisis and which could suffer from a very constrained resumption of traffic, which will not return to its level in 2019 before 2024. The revenue from the annex budget "Air control and operation", drawn from air taxes and charges, will be much lower in 2021 than the level provided for in the Finance Act for 2020. However, as in 2020, they will be offset by an increase in borrowing authorities, while DGAC – Civil Aviation Branch – continues its debt-debt trajectory. The DGAC foresees savings measures, which are inevitable, in current expenditure but also in the payroll – I welcome the efforts made by civil aviation personnel, who are aware of the seriousness of the crisis. Its debt is expected to reach EUR 2.6 billion. Nevertheless, the DGAC plans to maintain its essential investments in air navigation modernization. This is to be welcomed, as it will anticipate the resumption of air traffic with an increased level of safety and more environmentally friendly aviation. I stress the essential role played by DGAC in the development of continuous descent landing procedures for major French airports, notably Paris-Charles de Gaulle, which reduce polluting emissions and noise pollution. It is necessary to generalise these procedures, in order to relieve the daily lives of the residents while taking into account the safety requirements related to the complexity of air navigation. With regard to the noise pollution caused by air transport, I am again warning about the decline in the revenue of the TNSA – tax on air noise pollution – which could reach €35 million in 2020 and €17 million in 2021, equivalent to an entire year of revenue. This collapse is a matter of great concern, as it undermines the soundproofing of housing near airports and prevents the progress of work essential to improve the daily living conditions of thousands of our fellow citizens. There is currently no cash flow to process soundproofing requests. A special effort has been made in recent years to soundproof schools and health-care institutions, which represent a considerable project. In this connection, I would like to point out that, beyond the fight against noise pollution, it is also a question of making a whole local economy live in disadvantaged territories: it is many carpentries and local entrepreneurs who work on these sites. Therefore, a solution will need to be found to offset the revenue losses of the NST. I have tabled several amendments to this effect. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the appropriations for programme 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u106	Mr Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u107	Since 2018, with the work of the Council d'orientation des infrastructures – COI – in which Barbara Pompili has participated widely, and through the law of orientation of mobilitys, France has committed itself to an ambitious and credible transport policy. Despite the crisis affecting all modes of transport, the budget for 2021 is in line with the path set: the 203 programme will benefit a total of EUR 5.87 billion in payment appropriations. This increase is partly due to the abolition and budgeting of the Trust Account for the Territory's Balance Trains, which Anne-Laure Cattelot and I had advocated in the spring of the evaluation. But it is also the result of positive measures, such as the exceptional EUR 170 million support for rail freight, which we welcome – Anne-Laure Cattelot and I also recommended in the report we issued last year. In fact, we had proposed to go much further by generalizing the free train paths allocated to rail freight, for an amount of 200 million euros: there is not much missing to declare public utility freight in France! In addition, transport infrastructure and services will also benefit in 2021 from the recovery plan, with €4.1 billion for SNCF, €650 million for rail, €200 million for cycle paths, €900 million for public transport and €175 million for river transport. However, I raise a point of concern, which we discussed with the President of AFITF, Christophe Béchu, regarding the decrease in the Agency's revenues. This decrease has already had to be compensated in the amending finance laws for 2020. By 2021, revenues will be even more fragile due to a significant reduction in the proceeds of fines for speeding and the solidarity tax on airline tickets, known as the Chirac tax. That is why Zivka Park and I are calling on the Government to provide AFITF with reliable, resilient and innovative resources. Several avenues are set out in our report: end of autoroutary concessions, tax on home deliveries – already advocated in the IOC report – and local ecotax at the discretion of the regions among others. Beyond the figures, Mrs Park and I wanted to focus the special report on a number of issues that I believe need to be addressed by national representation. I would like to reiterate my support for the Territory's fine service lines, to which I know Minister Djebari is very attached. I have a thought for the 53,000 agents of SNCF Network and the 250,000 agents of the unified public group who sometimes work as they can, with bits of string. As this transport offer is essential for opening up the territories, I welcome the EUR 300 million allocated to it in the recovery plan, although the details of these financings are not always clear – we are still looking for the precise figures of the Philizot report. I hope that we will be able to obtain clarification on this point, Minister Delegate. Can you inform us about the progress of the ongoing work, initiated by Elizabeth Borne, on the evolution of the UIC – International Union of Railways – classification of lines? I also believe that regional IOCs would be the appropriate scale to discuss the territorial grid of fine-service projects in the territory. I regret, again, with the feeling of repeating me in a sluggish way, the low rate of execution of the contracts of the State-region plan, a subject on which I had also worked with Anne-Laure Cattelot. This year I particularly insist on the ultramarine territories, where local projects are not sufficiently supported by the State. I have spoken with the actors of several of them, including, for example, since I see Maina Sage here present, the Polynesian authorities, who have many infrastructure development projects to present to you, Minister Delegate, and who, I believe, are still waiting for an appointment. I could also refer to the new coastal route. As far as roads are concerned, Zivka Park and I refer in the special report to the maintenance and investment of mountain roads. The latter are more difficult to maintain than others and are subject to even greater risks as a result of climate change. Some small communes in France face significant expenses to maintain these roads, spending a large part of their budgets, which are not extensible. I could mention the question, dear to Jean Lassalle, of the national road 134 in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques: it is the very example of the projects which must be part of our priorities, especially since this is a European axis. We are also keen to draw your attention, Minister Delegate, to the new coastal route I mentioned earlier: this work of art must be the subject of political decisions to ensure the safety of Réunionnais and Réunionnais. Finally, I think it is necessary to recall, as Zivka Park did, how essential air transportation is to serving the overseas territories and communities. The "air-bashing" must be stopped. It should be remembered that the passenger of an aircraft consumes 2.7 litres of fuel for 100 kilometres, when a motorist consumes twice as much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u108	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u109	But that's interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u110	[[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] This denigration of the sector only harms the French companies and the flagships of the national industry. The development of sustainable air transport does not require a reduction in traffic, but investment and innovation, for example in the decarbonized aircraft. On this point, I welcome the efforts made under the recovery plan – I know that the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, Bruno Le Maire, is extremely attached to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u111	Sophie Panonacle, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u112	The crisis of the Covid-19 has not spared the highly strategic sector of the maritime economy. All the tracks of the sea, without exception, were struck with great brutality. The Happy blue days report noted this. It is the result of extensive collaborative work during the spring confinement with all components of the marine community. In addition, the recent national conference on maritime employment that I initiated is a strong and optimistic signal, combined with a major objective: towards 1 million jobs! In this context of fear and hope, the return, after three decades of absence, of a genuine ministry of the sea must allow France to fully grasp its maritime destiny. After the recovery plan, which devotes €650 million to the blue economy, the maritime affairs budget for 2021 represents a new step. This budget is stable: commitment authorities increase from EUR 160 million in 2020 to EUR 155 million in 2021, and payment appropriations from EUR 161 million to EUR 159 million. The budget for maritime affairs shall be calculated as accurately as possible in order to be preserved for the duration of the budget. It is essential because it makes it possible to finance policies aimed at making the regulatory action of the State more coherent with regard to the ship, the sailor and the sea; to finance dredging, which is essential for the operation of large seaports; and to finance the training of future French sailors, from the maritime vocational lycées to the higher education of the École nationale supérieure maritime. This budget is therefore very important: it contributes to the acceleration of our maritime strategy. Accelerate, but also protect: the sectors most affected by the crisis must be protected, in particular maritime passenger transport, which is subject to international competition. This is why the fourth draft amending finance law for 2020 provides for the opening of more than EUR 19 million to finance exceptional aid to passenger transport companies. Protecting, but also strengthening, as you said, minister, sometimes goes beyond the scope of your department. In this regard, I commend the work undertaken by the Government to strengthen the competitiveness of the French flag through the project of " Fontenoy du maritime" announced by Annick Girardin, Minister of the Sea. It will be presented in the coming days, around four themes: the sailor's social road map, economic competitiveness, the energy transition of ships and the influence and influence capacity of the French flag. The achievement of our objectives for the greening of maritime transport must be based on an energy mix inspired by all the available solutions: liquefied natural gas, velic propulsion, use of scrubbers, hydrogen or electricity at dockside. Wind propulsion, immediately available and fully decarbonized technology, is already driving many future projects. However, it receives only modest support from the State. That is why I have tabled amendments to this finance bill. I would stress one last point: all sea workers were affected by the crisis. That is why, in addition to economic and ecological recovery, a social revival of the blue economy is essential. Our sailors, especially young people and women, must benefit from more fluid training, open to the world and adapted to the transformation of trades and skills throughout France, in the hexagon as well as in the overseas regions. It is impossible for me to conclude without a word of support and encouragement for our sailors on board. I know the suffering, and the word is not too loud, experienced by those of them, and there are many, who are trapped on board ships, separated for many months from their families in this cruel period of confinement. Let's not forget them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Minister Delegate, as draftsman of the opinion, I propose that you look further, over the long term: let us make the blue economy the lever of our country's economic and environmental excellence. We can now set the stage for a competitive and virtuous recovery combining economics and ecology. The finance bill we are discussing is an additional step in supporting a competitive and decarbonized component of the marine economy. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has given a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the 205 Maritime Affairs programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u113	Mr Damien Pichereau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u114	The health crisis caused by the covid-19 epidemic has once again demonstrated the importance of the quality of transport and logistics infrastructure and services. However, since its consequences are unprecedented, the appropriations we are considering are of particular importance. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the dedication of these women and men, transport professionals, as well as officials of the ministry and operators who, during the present confinement as they did during the previous one, allow the operation of transport infrastructures and services. We are all aware of this here: transport accounts for almost 30% of France's greenhouse gas emissions. If many laws, such as the mobility guidance law or the energy and climate law, are involved in the reduction of these emissions, it is up to us to contribute even more. This is precisely what the recovery plan is all about. Indeed, the ecological transition accounts for one third of its budget, an unprecedented investment of €30 billion, more than the entire 2008 recovery plan, with massive support for rail transport, daily transport and cycling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u115	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u116	The 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme we are looking at today is also up sharply from 2020, by €800 million in commitment authorisations and by €550 million in payment appropriations. I'm glad. Nevertheless, I would like to be vigilant about the evolution of AFITF's revenue. The Government partially offset the revenue losses for 2020 in the Third Amending Finance Act, and is expected to make a further payment under the PLFR4. However, for 2021 and in the current context of re-defining, vigilance will have to be increased, particularly as a result of the drop in the proceeds of radar fines – the AFITF being the last beneficiary, after the others – and the contribution of the air sector – while the recovery is expected to be rather weak. Secondly, with regard to the Transport Regulatory Authority (ART), the Committee on Sustainable Development adopted my amendment that its appropriations should no longer be included in the 203 programme. As ART is an independent administrative authority, it seems to me preferable that the subsidy it receives should not be paid to it by the person responsible for the transport sector which it is precisely responsible for regulating. In the course of my work, I have chosen to devote myself to the appropriations relating to the transport of goods, with a view to greening freight and encouraging modal carry-over, in particular towards rail. This is indeed a major challenge in dealing with the environmental emergency. First of all, there is a need to help industry professionals green their fleet, but we need to be vigilant, in the current context, about the efficiency of the over-amortization enjoyed by carriers for the purchase of cleaner vehicles, as this aid benefits companies in a gradual way, when they have an important and immediate need for cash. If necessary, the temporary conversion of the scheme into a tax credit should be considered as soon as possible. I welcome here the strengthening of the conversion bonus, a subject that is of particular interest to me, and in particular its extension to the retro-fit. On this last point, however, we must think as soon as possible about a specific plan to speed up the registrations and the sale of these vehicles, in order to create a French sector of the retro-fit leader in Europe. I also welcome the introduction of conversion incentives for heavy-duty electric or hydrogen-powered vehicles, even though I think it would be appropriate to include those using alternative energy to oil, including natural gas for vehicles, said GNV. Finally, with regard to rail freight, the PLF for 2021 contains the necessary measures to double its share in freight transport by 2030, which is expected to rise from 8% to 16%. In addition to the redemption of SNCF Réseau's debt, it also provides for its recapitalisation and transfers from the State for the management of infrastructure, AFITF's contribution funds for the freight capillary network or long-term aid to rail and combined transport operators, i.e. a total increase of EUR 170 million – an additional EUR 20 million for trans-shipment aid, the taking over of tolls to the tune of 50 % and aid for isolated wagons to the tune of EUR 70 million, not to mention the measures in the recovery plan. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the funds I am presenting to you demonstrate the Government's strong support for the ecological transition. Whether it is rail transport, daily mobility or freight transport, all are considered priorities and all the appropriations directed towards the necessary transformation of our mobility and our economy. It is for all these reasons that the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning naturally gave a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for the mission 'Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u117	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u118	The meeting was resumed. We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u119	Mr Minister Delegate responsible for Transport, I take this opportunity: if you have found the Philizot report that you owe me since June 2019, do not hesitate to send it to me, it will be useful to us all. That would at last be a bit of a case for Parliament. Thank you in advance. No ecological transport planning – no short planning, no short ecology. Trucks rather than rail freight, SUVs rather than trains, aircraft rather than small railway lines. Denial of reality, improvisation, amateurism, I can no longer explain the wanderings of your transport policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u120	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u121	Let's start with the SUVs. Since 2016, CO emissions from new cars have increased again, although they decreased between 2009 and 2016. Over the past ten years, the weight of cars in France has increased by ten kilos per year: vehicles average 500 kilos more than 50 years ago and SUVs, heavier and more polluting than other cars, account for 40% of sales of new vehicles to date. It's seven times more than ten years ago. The Government is not able to stop this SUV phenomenon, which we are being riddled with over-advertising.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u122	I'm voting for the Citroën Méhari!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u123	The conversion premium is a failure, the damage to pollution is too low and its ceiling far too low to be incentive for such vehicles. Only one third of new vehicles are subject to it; Only 5% suffer from a malus of more than 1000 euros. You propose, to remedy this, a "malus weight" for cars over 1800 kilos: a first-class smoke when you know that among the twenty SUVs best sold in France, none cross that weight. Citizens of the Citizens' Climate Convention had proposed a threshold of 1,400 kilos; They will appreciate your measure. More generally, road traffic continues to increase, while river and rail traffic are declining. It's normal, the state is disengaged from every point of view: the industrial tool is braided, small lines and rail freight are abandoned to the benefit of the truck. We have lost half of our lines since 1950 and rail freight accounts for only 9% of freight transport compared to 89% for road transport. However, I have kept repeating this in this House, rail is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport: it transports 11 % of passengers and 9 % of goods for only 0.3% of the greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. But you stubbornly refuse to put an end to the distortions of competition that you and your liberal friends keep creating in favour of the truck. Switch from 38 to 44 tons – paf, 15% more distortion! You rejected all the amendments to the LOM law that proposed to reverse this change. Massive public investment in road infrastructure, six times greater than in the rail network. Low road toll for trucks, when rail transport has to pay its furrows at each crossing. Lack of payment for environmental damage – air pollution – while these negative externalities now cause more than 48,000 premature deaths each year. Let's just say: your speech about free and undistorted competition is flan! Especially since what you call the recovery plan for the railway is a real trick - the eye barely covering the losses suffered during the health crisis by the SNCF. This is of course indispensable, but completely insufficient in view of the investment needs for the regeneration of the rail network, its modernisation and the renewal of rolling stock, day and night. Without urgent bifurcation, 40% of small lines are threatened with closure in the coming years. One example illustrates perfectly and concretely the inefficiency of your policy to act on the modification of the modal part of freight: I am of course talking about the Perpignan-Rungis line, which used to transport 400,000 tonnes of fruit and vegetables to the Rungis market and which you abandoned for the benefit of the road hauliers. Despite your promises, which commit only those who believe in it, it is now closed and thousands of trucks carry these fruits and vegetables. You have done nothing to prevent it, and you are proposing nothing to remedy it, in the short or medium term. We will propose, during the debates, against the current of your policy, a new investment plan in the small lines, in accordance with the recommendations of the civic convention for the climate and the Climate Action Network, the redeployment of night trains, but also the increase of the bike fund. It is indeed urgent to get out of our society and from your car policy: when you know that 60% of our journeys by car are less than five kilometres long, you must reduce the place of this mode of transport, stop the lure of mass electrification and act urgently to develop environmentally friendly and popular modes of transport – accessible and tending to reduce territorial inequalities. Your ecology is the good conscience of hollow discourses, measuring instruments, non-decisions. The one I defend is in rupture with the infinite growth model, that of artificial needs. It is time to initiate a policy of sufficient and a popular ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u124	Bravo! Remarkable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u125	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u126	First of all, Minister Delegate: it is your department that is the most derailed in terms of jobs. With more than 400 jobs cut, it's the most strangled and it's not good news. With regard to the appropriations for infrastructure and land transport services, we do not deny the Government's willingness to make some efforts, particularly in the context of the recovery plan, and we are pleased; But these budget increases are absolutely not up to the stakes. Road infrastructure – the daily life of the French – are the great forgotten of the recovery plan. Remember, you have indeed raised your commitment to 930 million euros, compared to the 670 million of the last decade; It was good, but as it took $1.3 billion, according to the 2018 audit, the proportion of pavements requiring maintenance or structural renewal continues to grow, which is very worrying. In terms of the greening of the fleet, the Government has also made significant efforts last year, which we do not underestimate: the appropriations allocated for aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles have increased from 797 million to 1.79 billion next year, of which one is an act. However, the car bonus and the conversion bonus remain undersized in view of the renewal stakes. The renovation of the park at a rate of 1% per year will not allow for a qualitative leap in this area. You have also refused to refocus this aid on the most vulnerable households and on light vehicles, the least emitters. We regret these refusals, as do the introduction of price and weight criteria. If we now look at the appropriations for railway infrastructure, we discover that the budget for next year is in line with the bottom line, little or no, with the performance contract, with just under 2.5 billion euros in payment appropriations. All the additional effort is carried out by the recovery plan, which will not allow to alter the current situation of underinvestment. Of the €4.75 billion announced, only 650 million represent new investment credits, distributed among freight, small lines and night trains – an isolated effort, made under the pressure of elected officials, railwaymen and users, without any guarantee of sustainability. The remaining 4 billion and dust will go to SNCF Network to help it preserve its investment capacity and abound in regeneration work already planned for the next two years. What is presented as a stimulus plan is in fact only a support plan – albeit indispensable, but insufficient in terms of investment. The investment budget path will thus neither ensure the optimal functioning of the network nor achieve the climate objectives of the National Low Carbon Strategy – SNBC. In the area of rail freight, the Government's intermodal distribution objectives in the framework of the multi-annual energy programme speak for themselves: they aim to stabilize the modal share of rail freight and to return, in 2028, to its 2015 level of approximately 11.5 per cent; the modal part of the river must also stabilise at 2.3%. Such a programme is anything but ambitious. I am obliged to quote the bosses – those of the 4F alliance, the French rail freight of the future – who propose to reach 18.5% at the end of the decade and who, if they observe with interest the first measures of the recovery plan, question the sustainability of your commitment. The real situation with regard to terrestrial infrastructure remains that of chronic under-sizing of climate measures, against the background of declining public services and opening up to competition. Under these circumstances, Minister, the deputies of the Left Democratic and Republican Group will vote against the appropriations of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u127	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u128	Programme 203 brings together most of the State's resources contributing to national transport policy through infrastructure and services of road, rail, river, port, sea and airport transport. It also addresses the security, safety and regulation challenges of the economic sectors concerned. For the year 2021, it is divided into four axes: maintaining and improving the state of existing transport networks, optimising existing transport systems and networks, developing new modes of mobility combining new technologies, supporting transport activities and strengthening the control of economic, social and environmental rules. In keeping with last year's mobility policy, the budget represents a clear and transparent commitment by the Government and the majority to day-to-day mobility, transport infrastructure and services. This is the mission's second largest programme, with a high level of investment in the rail sector, a sharp increase in public transportation and the financing of the bike plan. The "moving" theme has largely mobilised the citizens' climate convention, which has made many proposals that we will be discussing next year: with 30% of greenhouse gas emissions, transport has a strong impact on the environment. This budget has two characteristics: it is on the rise and it is trying, as far as possible, to anticipate the consequences of the health crisis that we are going through. I welcome its 17% increase in the perimeter of last year and the massive and unprecedented support for rail freight. This decision confirms support for small railway lines as a complementary mode of transport for landlocked territories and we all know here the interest of these lines for our fellow citizens who live in these territories. However, I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the financing of AFITF, whose resources have fallen significantly this year due to the crisis of the Covid-19. The successive amending finance bills and the recovery plan have made it possible to compensate for and secure the €2.782 billion foreseen by the LOM for 2021; But will that be enough? In this budgetary period, we must not forget the contributions of the recovery plan, which makes a significant contribution to rail transport and to the financing of infrastructure. The mobilities of everyday life are not forgotten. The renovation of the car fleet, to move towards a much lower carbon fleet, with clean vehicles, helps the automotive sector, which is largely affected by the health crisis. We must also welcome the bike plan, the electrification and greening of ports, the investments in biofuels and the bonus for the purchase of cleaner vehicles. I would like to take advantage of the presentation of programme 205 "Maritime affairs", which deals with the maritime action of the State, to welcome, as a coastal elected official, the creation of the Ministry of the Sea. The budget for maritime affairs will remain stable in 2021, which I welcome. Last year, I hoped that the increase in funding for the National Lifesaving Society at Sea, to which we must pay tribute for its daily work, would be sustainable. I am therefore pleased that this budget is maintaining its allocation of EUR 11 million. The maritime sector suffers the consequences of Brexit, in addition to those of the health crisis which has brought an entire sector to an end. This year, sea workers have suffered a lot. Of course, I am thinking of the maritime transport of goods, which has experienced great difficulties, but also, and above all, of the passenger transport sector, which has collapsed, with consequences, in particular, for the activities of the shipyards to which the inhabitants of my Loire-Atlantique territory are very attached. We must ensure that the green recovery that we all want is accompanied by a blue recovery. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You will observe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the uncertain context of the health crisis whose consequences it intends to anticipate, this budget pursues the objectives of the LOM and maintains the appropriations for maritime transport. It is for these reasons that Members of the La République Group will vote for the appropriations for the programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services" and for the programme 205 "Maritime affairs".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u129	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u130	We are looking at funding for the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", particularly for the "Transport Infrastructure and Services" and "Maritime Affairs" programs. Members of the Republican Group – we have heard Pierre Vatin on energy – are fully aware of the issues related to ecology and mobility. As such, the increase in appropriations under programme 203 is a positive signal – it should still be considered that this increase has its origin in the recovery plan. I would point out that, last year, the same appropriations were down by 0.31%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u132	In the absence of a recovery plan, it is certain that we would have regretted once again the Government's lack of ambition on environmental and mobility issues. However, this signal will be really positive only if the choices made in terms of sustainable development and mobility are multiple and varied and not only focused on certain so-called renewable energies. For, unlike you, we believe that it is possible to reconcile each person's mobility choices if the conditions for a real ecological transition of mobility are met. I recall that the Government's choice to tax fuels has led to an unprecedented social movement. Although alternatives to car use exist in towns and cities, they are almost non-existent in rural and medium-sized cities. Yet, again this year, the Government announced an increase in fuel taxes, before giving up... But until when? So we ask about your choice to consider electric mobility as the alpha and omega of tomorrow's mobility. Of course, electric vehicles do not release carbon dioxide, but, as you know, they are not good for the planet. To make a battery, it takes heavy and rare metals – several kilos of lithium, nickel, producing mountains of residues released into the sea, and thousands of tons of cobalt extracted in Congo by children who dig with bare hands in the mines. These batteries, transported from the end of the world – hello the carbon balance... – must be frequently recharged, their only weight constituting a limit to their autonomy and therefore to their energy sobriety. And the lifespan of these batteries is estimated at eight years: what about their recycling? With your policy of shutting down nuclear power plants, how do you intend to allow everyone access to electric vehicles? The energy resource to recharge them will not be sufficient, unless the electricity produced by coal-fired power plants in neighbouring countries is imported. Not all wind turbines and photovoltaic production will be enough. It seems to me, moreover, that you have tabled an amendment – perhaps you will withdraw it – which, in the field of photovoltaics, will reduce the remuneration of contracts concluded. Beyond the difficulties of sustaining the sector, it will be tomorrow's electricity needs that will not be met. These are your contradictions: wanting to develop sustainable mobility and, at the same time, cutting short on renewable energies. Tomorrow, we will be faced with the following choice: heating our homes or recharging our electric vehicles. However, other solutions exist, such as hydrogen, biofuels, GNV. The energy mix must therefore be developed in terms of mobility. It is all the more necessary that, in a large part of the territory, the whole electrical system is not suitable. Let us not repeat the mistakes of the past. For many years successive governments have supported the acquisition of diesel vehicles for today to reverse – this is indeed one of the objectives defined by the 203 program. However, we do not perceive in its application that you intend to promote other modes of mobility. We regret this, and we are not the only ones because the Court of Auditors itself has denounced the lack of relevance of the bonus-malus applied to the acquisition of electric vehicles. Reducing the carbon footprint of maritime transport is also an issue of mobility. We must not forget that, although the maritime sector is severely affected by the health crisis, this has been mentioned, we have the second largest maritime area in the world. Our maritime spaces are an undeniable wealth that deserves greater budgetary resources. That is how we deplore the inadequacy of your policy to combat maritime pollution and your lack of vision to move towards greening ships. I have referred to hydrogen, and perhaps we should consider the use of start and stop, which would allow ships to automatically stop their engines once they are in port. Last year, the appropriations allocated to this programme 205 were up by almost 3%. This year, they are going to fall by 1%, a decrease which will particularly affect action 04 "Interdepartmental action of the sea" – down by 4% – which contributes to the protection of the environment. Similarly, action 03 "Commercial Fleet", although accounting for half of the payment appropriations, is down compared to 2020. At the meetings of the economy of the sea, held on 21 and 22 November 2017, the then Prime Minister had nevertheless reaffirmed France's desire to develop its maritime policy. But the appropriations allocated, despite the recovery plan, do not allow the budgetary surge necessary to achieve your maritime ambition. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. - "Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will not vote for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u133	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u134	Before dealing with the financial matters which the next item is calling for our attention, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, how pleased I am to be able to return to this House, when the reconfinition has moved me away from it for a week. Democratic life continues in this difficult period: it is in itself a source of great satisfaction. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats, and like the special rapporteur, Mrs Park, I welcome the financial efforts that have been made to maintain the balance of the annex budget 'Control and air operations', in a context of a sharp reduction in revenue due to the impact of the crisis on the activity of airlines. This translates into additional debt, but ensuring a high level of aviation safety is the priority. The crisis in this sector is not close to weakening; It must be an opportunity to change the model by investing heavily in the ecological transformation of aviation. More importantly, we are pleased to see the increase of almost EUR 800 million in appropriations for inland and inland transport, to improve infrastructure, support transport networks and develop new mobilitys. The amount of appropriations allocated to land transport under the recovery plan was previously recalled: €4.7 billion for small lines, night trains and freight; 1.2 billion for daily transport and cycling. In the continuity of the major advances of the LOM law – 350 million euros for the bike, 10 billion euros for the train – we invest massively in ecological mobility. I will focus more on maritime issues. I welcome the stability of the appropriations for programme 205, but recall that the budget for maritime affairs is calculated as accurately as possible and that any reduction would have adverse consequences for security and safety operations at sea. The credits from the recovery plan will compensate for the construction of new ships and the greening of the ports – I am thinking of Lorient where the surplus of electricity produced by a wind farm will be used for the production of hydrogen and finally, I hope, Minister Delegate, for a railway line that is not very far from Lorient. I'd like to talk to you first about the sea trades. The draftsman mentioned earlier the figure of 1 million jobs: these jobs, which lack visibility and sometimes attractiveness, nevertheless represent a considerable source of employment. It is therefore necessary to succeed in creating new vocations, to attract young people who wish to earn a living: mechanics, naval architects, welders, engineers, fishermen... The maritime world is full of opportunities adapted to every life course, every ambition. Yesterday, thirty-three skippers, including six women, set off from Les Sables-d'Olonne for a solo, unassisted and non-stop tour of the world. This race is not a sporting event like any other, it is a maritime adventure that makes us aware of the stakes of the sea, of its preservation, of its trades as well. This year, like the previous ones, thousands of students – which I hope will inspire vocations – will follow the race accompanied by their teacher, their teachers, the opportunity for them to discover all the richness of the marine environment. This year, the Ministries of the Sea and National Education wanted to promote these educational initiatives together with schools to embark the largest number of students on this wonderful adventure. I am happy to have helped them and I would like her to benefit the less familiar children of the sea and its wonders. We will also have to continue to transform a world that is pointed at – unfairly often – for its environmental impact. In fact, maritime transport has started its ecological shift as no other sector: regulations are regularly strengthened and the development of cleaner technologies is largely financed. France is also committed to expanding its network of protected areas, which is expected to increase to 30% of its maritime surface, 10% of which is in strong protection. For my part, I am convinced that the transformation of the maritime sector is not only taking place in research and development centres. Our salvation will come much more from our ability to rethink the world in which we live. The health crisis invites us more than ever to this reflection. We must first ask ourselves the question of mass tourism, the globalization of value chains and our dependence on international trade, since maritime transport is only the instrument of these phenomena. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Acter groups and on many benches of the LaREM group]] I ask the Special Rapporteurs and for the opinion of the Special Rapporteurs to apologize if I have focused on these maritime issues more than on land and air issues: I have taken the time to talk about what I know best, leaving it to our colleagues who are more specialists in other subjects to comment on them in detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u135	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u136	The expected return of the United States to the Paris climate agreement must push us to accelerate the ecological transition in France. To speak with a strong voice, we need to be unwaveringly exemplary and to pursue ambitious public policies. The 2021 finance bill and more specifically the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" should have demonstrated this will. As we all know, budgetary signals are crucial in the monitoring and effective implementation of public policies. Regrettably, the Government endorsed budget cuts in several key programmes. Thus, a decrease in the number of Météo France staff is expected, with almost 100 FTEs abolished, after 94 FTEs were abolished in the previous finance law. Similarly, while the increase in appropriations under programme 113 "Landscapes, water and biodiversity" may seem satisfactory at first glance, it does not reflect any increase in staff. A careful reading even reveals the abolition of 127 posts at the French Biodiversity Office. Allow me, Minister Delegate, to come back to the prevention of technological risks and pollution. The disaster at the Lubrizol factory, which occurred near my constituency, showed that the worst can always happen. The Government plans to double inspections, but it is difficult to see how inspectors already heavily involved in their daily work could increase from 18,000 to 27,000 inspections per year, if you create only fifty new posts. In total, the downsizing of the Ministry of Green Transition continues: with the loss of 1000 FTEs, it ranks second on the list of departments that are recording a decrease in their staff. You will agree, the budgetary signals sent by these different developments may be perplexed. With regard to mobility, I recall that freedom to come and go is a fundamental freedom, unfortunately constrained by the health crisis. However, it is crucial to think about the ecosystem, the directions and the financing of mobility. In this respect, the budget support provided for the financing of AFITF, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, cannot be a long-term solution. Members of the Socialist and Related Group have repeated this since the end of the first confinement: this agency must be given special attention. It is about the investment of soft mobility and the future of our infrastructure. Building on an increase in contraventions issued from radar controls to compensate for the Agency's losses is neither politically nor socially acceptable. From a budgetary point of view, the development of rail transport – small lines, night trains, freight –, river transport – only the maintenance of inland waterways seems unfortunately assured – and cycling as an alternative to more polluting modes of mobility may be hampered and delayed. The health crisis has led us to think in the longer term and to define the mobility that we will want to implement once we are rid of the covid-19. As has been said, transport is the first French economic sector to emit greenhouse gases. Thanks to the work of many associations and researchers, members of the Socialist and related groups know that the train is a credible, desirable and efficient solution to replace road transport tomorrow. The State's modal shift and rail traffic development targets under the national low-carbon strategy – +27% traffic by 2030, +79% by 2050 – appear to be inaccessible to the current investment dynamics. To achieve the goals of this strategy, which we all agree, an additional 3 billion per year would be needed until 2030. That is why we place great hope in the bill inspired by the proposals of the citizens' climate convention, which is due to be introduced in December. This text could lead to a real revival of rail transport. I am aware that the Socialist and Related Group supports a particularly demanding position towards the Government, but we no longer have time to do the same as before, no longer to be half-measured and conflicting choices. We will therefore propose amendments to strengthen the funding of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France and to create a cheque "maintenance-reparation responsable". We will also ask for increased funding for inland waterway transport. Finally, we expect a real ambition for rail transport. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our legislature is marked by urgency: health emergency, democratic emergency, but also ecological emergency – for our children, we must not forget it. Unfortunately, the Socialist and Related Group cannot vote in favour of the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" as presented to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u137	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u138	We are gathered today to review the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". I am particularly interested in those of Program 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" and Program 205 "Maritime Affairs". "There is no plan B because there is no planet B," said Ban Ki-moon, the former Secretary-General of the United Nations. Our budget discussion is in the context of the fight against global warming; It seemed important to me to stress this. As a reminder, in 2019, primary energy production in France decreased by 2.7% to 134.3 million tonnes of oil equivalent and an energy bill of 44 billion euros. This year, primary energy consumption fell slightly by 1.4%. Our energy consumption is one third linked to transport, and our energy consumption related to transport results for three quarters, 74%, of land transport, air transport and maritime transport accounting for 12% and 11%, respectively. These figures show the importance of the issues at stake. We therefore welcome the sharp increase in the budget allocated to transport. The 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme, the second highest in the Mission, will benefit from 3.9 billion commitment authorizations and 3.7 billion payment appropriations in 2021, an increase of 17% over last year, consistent with our greenhouse gas reduction targets. This budget will further develop green mobility and the rail sector. The latter has suffered a lot and continues to suffer from the current economic crisis, but we must continue the transformation of the network to improve daily life. I welcome the willingness of the Ministry responsible for transport to make this project a priority. This is a commitment budget, which builds the resilience of our country by responding to the various challenges we face: network regeneration, freight development, acceleration of the transition to clean mobility for all and in all territories. It is essential to develop sustainable mobility on land, but also at sea, which brings me to the 205 "Maritime Affairs" program. We need coherent policies and I regret that we do not have a comprehensive study on air, sea and land transport. We must welcome the ambition of the green hydrogen plan. However, Minister Delegate, how can this plan be implemented at a time when only 5% of the world's hydrogen is produced by electrolysis? How, in practice, will the budget allocated to the hydrogen plan support its implementation? Let me say a few words about air transport, a sector that has suffered a lot from the crisis. Mr Minister Delegate, I call on you to pay particular attention to the situation of the regional airlines Air Tahiti Nui and Aircalin, based overseas. They, like Air France, have a strategic interest in our country but have not received any special support. I know that they benefit from the EMP, the state-guaranteed loan, and that they will be entitled to a small extension, but that will not be enough. By comparison, under the same measure, Air France received State support amounting to 45 % of its turnover, compared with 25 % for regional companies. I leave you to imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of distortion of competition which result from this. It is of course essential to support Air France, our national company, but this support must not be at the expense of regional companies. I come to the maritime transport, on which there would be so much to say. Polynesia represents half of France's exclusive economic zone (EEZ)! That is to say, if we want to participate in the momentum created by this budget. Polynesia has been a marine mammal sanctuary since 2002 and seine fishing is prohibited. The Polynesian fleet has been awarded the MSC – Marine Stewardship Council – label for sustainable fishing. There are no foreign fleets in Polynesia. Anyway, we're exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u139	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the group Agir ens. – Ms Florence Lasserre and Mr Bertrand Pancher also applaud]] I will have the opportunity to come back to the question of training when we look at the amendments, but I would like to raise one last question, in the end, for lack of time. Deputy Minister, when is the promised bill on major natural hazards?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u141	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u142	With regard to the transport component of the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility" which our Assembly is about to examine, the IDU and independent group wishes to welcome the progress made since the entry into force of the law of 24 December 2019 on mobility orientation, since the year 2020 was its first full year of application. For the first time, visibility is given to the transport budget with the increase in the expenditure of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. The health crisis has highlighted the need to invest to maintain our infrastructure and to encourage and develop cleaner mobilitys, allowing to respect the conditions of physical distancing. If we are convinced that we must move towards decarbonisation of the transport sector and act to meet France's ambitious climate and environmental objectives, we will not be able to do so abruptly or to the detriment of our citizens. That is why our group welcomes the maintenance of the mechanisms that work and go in the right direction, such as the conversion bonus. When proof of effectiveness is given, a device must be maintained and adapted if necessary. It is important to support the sectors and avoid destabilising a sector as a result of radical changes or the absence of an alternative. It is also important to make our fellow citizens want to change their habits. I am thinking of the taxation of fuels whose increase, which was to be included in the first part of the PLF by 2021, was finally cancelled. In this particular period, indeed, the car is even more indispensable for those who work and need to move. While we welcome the boom in the registration of electric vehicles as a result of the conversion premium and the offers of car manufacturers, it makes it all the more necessary to develop a battery recycling industry. With regard to biofuels, whether in air, land or sea transport, we are convinced that they are a way of meeting our commitments and meeting the environmental, climate and economic challenges. They could thus provide a transition energy to air transport before the arrival of a green hydrogen aircraft, scheduled for 15 to 20 years. The transport side also concerns the resumption of the first part of SNCF's debt by the State, which the IDU and independent group had called for when the bill was discussed for a new railway pact. We therefore welcome this today. However, the health situation severely hampers SNCF's activity and financial support measures have been announced. Given the evolution of the epidemic, further state support will still be needed. When we talk about SNCF, we always think about the fine services of the territory, these "small lines" so important for our rural territories. We are still unaware of the conclusions of the Prefect François Philizot's report on their future. The budget would have deserved to be reviewed in the light of this state of affairs. You will agree that the situation requires a response. Abandoning these lines will only exacerbate the existing territorial divides. As far as night trains are concerned, the crisis has finished putting an end to private projects, in particular by Italian and German companies. It is therefore urgent that the Government fulfil its commitment to offer a new offer of night trains in our country, beyond simply renovating existing lines. Our Austrian friends have done so, follow their example. Finally, if the Government has submitted a proposal for additional taxation of vehicles according to their mass, the option chosen, starting at 1.8 kg, will apply only to a very small number of cars sold, barely 2 per cent. The standard will need to be revised on a regular basis. I shall conclude, like our colleague, Maina Sage, with a thought for our overseas fellow citizens, especially those in the Pacific. On the other side of the world, French people depend on airlines every day. Some of them, like Aircalin, are now threatened with disappearance. Only specific financial support from the State such as that received by Air France and some local companies will save this company essential to the local economy. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] We hope that the forthcoming discussion will be constructive. The IDU and independent group will take their full part.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u143	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u144	When I refer to the budget of the Ministry of Transport and the recovery plan, my interlocutors say to me: "It's very good, but how will it work? As my colleagues have pointed out, the challenges are multiple in terms of mobility; They are environmental, social and economic and, at first glance, the 2021 finance bill represents a major financial effort. We note that €7.8 billion has been earmarked for transport under your budget, Minister Delegate, an increase of €250 million over last year. The increase is small, but fortunately 10 billion euros in addition to the "Relaunch Plan" mission over two years. Several questions, however, arise. What are the new appropriations, and what are the commitments made well in advance of the crisis, particularly under the mobility guidance law? How can we contribute to short-term policies and even to operating aid, such as that for SNCF, and to structural policies? More generally, will the State keep its word and commitments? Everyone knows Bercy's ability to fill one pocket by emptying another. A two-year recovery plan is good, but there is a need to launch programmes and therefore investments that will have to be made for four or five years, sometimes six. We would have gained readability by directly increasing the budgets of the ministry's missions, rather than going through the stimulus plan; This would have clearly separated the short-term from the medium-term. First of all, I would like to return to the financing of AFITF. The crisis leads to a decline in revenues from radar controls, as well as a drop in resources from the internal energy consumption tax and the land-use tax paid by motorway dealers. The revenue allocated to this transport investment agency will therefore be much lower than that foreseen by the investment path of the mobility guidance law, and a similar scenario is to be feared for the year 2021. The chronic financial instability in which AFITF is located will threaten the deployment of projects, and the compensation of revenue by the state, which you seem to be advocating for this year, is not sustainable in the long term. There is, of course, a need to rethink its overall funding model. I would also like to refer to the rail sector. The budget will secure investments over two years, but what will happen beyond that? What funding will guarantee the continuation of projects? The big professional organizations ask us to pay attention to it. With regard to SNCF, the redemption of the debt to the tune of 10 billion euros had been planned since 2018, and it is a very good thing that it is realized; In particular, it will be used to cover losses incurred since confinement. I doubt, however, that this is enough for the operator to be able to carry out the necessary work on rehabilitating the network, in the context of the forthcoming opening up to competition. We support the first steps towards the small lines of the capillary network; they are apparently financed to the tune of EUR 400 million. This effort is appreciated in particular by the regions, but, as you all know, the need has been assessed by SNCF Réseau at EUR 7 billion over the next ten years. Rail freight will benefit from an increase of EUR 170 million, in addition to the EUR 200 million announced in the recovery plan. We welcome this important commitment but would like to know the details of its territorial variations. With regard to the automotive sector, we welcome the installation of 100,000 charging stations throughout the country, prior to the generalisation of electric vehicles. On the other hand, we regret the reduction of the ecological bonus and the conversion bonus; the continuing crisis, it would have been legitimate to perpetuate these exceptional aids. Finally, I regret that the budget still does not make it possible to restore fairness between modes of transport. Kerosene is not taxed or taxed, maritime transport is still exempt, and the use of unlicensed roads remains free for trucks and buses. You are referring the increase in carbon taxation to the Greek calends, which is a serious mistake. The carbon tax is used to charge environmental costs and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, provided that the amounts collected are redistributed to the poorest or those living in rural areas. Without it, how can we achieve carbon neutrality?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u145	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u146	We fear that this finance bill will not allow the transportation sector to begin its transition; A majority of the Libertés et territoires group will also abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u147	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u148	The crisis that we are going through has called into question some of our convictions, certainties and priorities. But when it comes to transportation, it has only strengthened them. Since 2017, we have invested in daily transportation, notably through the mobility guidance law; During the crisis, they were essential to maintaining economic and social activity. We are pursuing a transportation policy to support land projects, at a time when cooperation with communities is more crucial than ever. We had already begun the ecological transition of transport; The recovery must allow us to accelerate it further. These priorities reflect our political approach: an approach to human progress, in which social mobility requires geographical mobility; an approach of technical progress, which consists of regaining the pioneering spirit which France has shown so much in the field of transport and which seemed to have left it in recent years; Finally, an approach of realism and budgetary ambition, capable of upgrading our transport networks, which have suffered, as you know, from chronic underinvestment. The budget for 2021 is a strong and ambitious budget for transport in France. The 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme will see its appropriations increase by 17% to €3.7 billion; the 205 programme, dedicated to the maritime action of the State, will be stable to the tune of 159 million euros. Behind these sums are strong commitments. For example, the state has never invested so much in rail, and this budget is a new proof of this. The President of the Republic announced this on 14 July: in addition to the political priorities already at work, we will develop again small railway lines, night trains and rail freight. As has been said, we will provide massive and unprecedented support for the latter of more than 170 million euros, which will enable us to cut by half the toll rate for our freight trains in 2021, to support the single car and combined transport, and to start the creation or resumption of three new railway motorways between Calais and Sète, between Cherbourg and Bayonne, and of course on the Barcelona-Perpignan-Rungis-Anvers axis. The train has a social role: it links the territories, a link that the Government is committed to strengthening. We will thus increase the compulsory assistance to SNCF Réseau, for an amount of more than €66 million, in addition to what was already planned, in particular for the balance trains of the territory and TER – regional express transport. Unlocking territories is one of our priorities. We are acting and investing in this, not only for rail but for all modes of transport. Never before has the state invested so much in land-use planning lines by air, and we continue the effort in 2021 by increasing this budget by EUR 5 million. It must also be recalled that we had never had to go through such a crisis. The finance bill we are looking at bears the mark. It is intended to anticipate, as far as possible, the impacts of the covid-19 in 2021, because the health crisis will affect transport over the long term. Road traffic has declined sharply during confinements, and air traffic is not expected to return to pre-crisis levels for several years. However, AFITF's appropriations and the annex budget for civil aviation depend on taxes which themselves depend on the level of traffic. Less traffic is less revenue for these two budgets; They have therefore been studied and adjusted accordingly, and the impact they experienced in 2020 as a result of the crisis will be amortized thanks to the many draft amending finance laws that you have had to examine and vote on. I can therefore confirm to those of my interlocutors who are concerned that we are sanctifying by this text the path envisaged in the LOM for the AFITF. By 2021, its budget will amount to almost €2.8 billion and, following the stimulus plan and the amending finance laws, we have sanitized this amount. With regard to the annex budget "Air control and operation", its trajectory has been revised without prejudice to the long-term objectives. It will be 2.3 billion euros in 2021, a figure that takes into account revenue reductions due to the decrease in traffic for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023. These medium-term objectives are maintained at the cost of a new loan of EUR 700 million. To this budget 2021, we must add the stimulus plan. Its ambition is not only to restore our economy but also to prepare for the country's future, and we need transport to build it. It is therefore 11.5 billion euros that are allocated in the transport recovery plan; In particular, they must allow for the transformation of those who emit the most and the development of those who emit the least. We will act for the greening of road transport by relying on two levers. First of all, it is the purchase aids – mentioned by some of you – that are effective, including the ecological bonus and the conversion bonus, extended until 2022 and supported by a EUR 1 billion per year scheme. It is then the deployment of the charging stations: our aim is to deploy 100,000 by the end of 2021, giving priority to the ultra-fast charging stations. EUR 100 million will thus be directed towards the equipment of the service areas, both on the national roads and on the motorways of our country. Air transport must also take part in greening, and France, as you know, has a particular role to play in terms of its footprint in the aviation industry. I am convinced that we are able to invent the zero-emission aircraft; We have already had the opportunity to talk about this technological leap to hybrid aircraft and, later, to hydrogen-flying aircraft. Over the next three years, we will mobilize €1.5 billion in research and development investments in this area, while developing a French biofuel sector; Our goal is for air transport to use 2% of biofuels in 2025, 5% in 2030 and 50% in 2050. Our port infrastructure will also have to take part in this effort. We will green them by electrifying the wharfs and by creating liquefied natural gas refuelling points and, tomorrow, hydrogen. Tomorrow's transport also emits the least and it is up to us to develop it. The first is the railway: this has been said, EUR 4.7 billion is spent in the recovery plan on investments in freight and small railway lines. I say this to those who have asked me about this: the Philizot report has turned into "small line conventions", already signed by three regions, Centre-Val de Loire, Grand Est and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. This plan will, thanks to a significant investment of more than €6 billion and the determined action of several regional presidents alongside the state, save the 9,000 kilometres of small lines that were in danger – this rescue is now on track. We will also invest in night trains, for the accessibility of railway stations and, of course, we will continue to invest heavily to modernize the national rail network, which is the backbone of the railway system. Transport emits the least, of course, it is also everyday transport. In the recovery plan, EUR 1.2 billion is allocated to them, including EUR 700 million for Île-de-France. Some projects are emblematic: the extension of the E line of the RER and some trams, as well as the modernisation of the stations and their accessibility to people with reduced mobility. In the region, 330 million euros will be used to launch calls for projects for public transport, to deepen studies for RERs, notably in Strasbourg, Lille and Bordeaux, or to create a third metro line in Toulouse. Finally, EUR 200 million will go to the development of the bike. We will take 600 bike paths out of the ground in two years, and we will equip 1000 stations in secure shelters for bicycles. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the budget of a mission is not just a matter of aligning figures; It is to agree on objectives, a method and an ambition. Our objectives are clear: to open up our territories, to support the railway and to anticipate the impacts of the health crisis on all modes of transport. Our method is as much: it is an ecology of action, a concrete ecology, positive, realistic. That's what our transport needs, that's what our country needs, and you can count on me to be the tireless defender.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u149	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of each question and each answer is limited to two minutes. Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u150	The budget for 2021 shows once again that the development of daily mobility – especially rail transport, so important for the French – is an absolute priority of the majority. This priority is reflected in the increase in public transport resources – EUR 824 million in commitment authorisations and 629 million in payment appropriations – and in the sharp increase in the rail transport budget – EUR 2.47 billion in payment appropriations. The State's effort will be particularly massive for transport in the Île-de-France region, which is essential for millions of people. By 2021, the recovery plan will devote 700 million euros to public transport in the region, out of a total of 900 million euros, this is an unprecedented and considerable effort. These investments are in addition to the action of AFITF's contribution fund to the infrastructure of the country. They are also in addition to the exceptional support that the State provided to Île-de-France Mobilitys in 2020, in order to enable the establishment to cope with the revenue losses generated by the health crisis. Since this summer, we have granted it a first advance of EUR 425 million in the adoption of the third amending finance law and, at present, aid of more than EUR 1 billion is under consideration under the fourth amending finance bill – PLFR4. Your involvement in this matter, Minister Delegate – that of the rapporteur-general is also very real – demonstrates the State's constant support for the francilian users, helping the network to cope with the crisis or to invest in modernising itself. Could you tell us what concrete projects will be financed in Île-de-France by the €700 million recovery plan? Could you remind us what are the next steps in supporting the transports of the francilians to help them overcome the crisis and what are the commitments of the various parties? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, could you remind us of the total amount of appropriations deployed in 2021 for cycling – a strong focus of this majority's policy in favour of daily mobility and the travel of many Francilians?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u151	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u152	First of all, thank you, Member, for the role you played in supporting Île-de-France Mobilitys. You have mobilised a great deal, along with the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin, to compensate for the loss of tax revenue of the institution – through the mobility payment and the compensation of the State for an estimated amount of between 700 and 900 million euros, depending on the tax developments of the coming months – and also the loss of tariff revenues whose compensation, both unprecedented and significant, will be adjusted at the time of the adoption of the PLFR4. These aids will enable the region not to be forced to increase the price of the Navigo pass. They will also enable SNCF and RATP to benefit from a contract, to be paid and to continue the work undertaken in Île-de-France. You initiated and supported this virtuous circle, which I wanted to thank you for. With regard to the concrete projects financed by the EUR 700 million recovery plan, I can mention the new system of train automation, control and supervision, called NEXTEO, which will be installed on the E line of the RER when it is extended westward, and on the central section of the B and D lines of the RER. I am also thinking of extending certain tram lines, in particular the T3 and T1 lines, and the introduction of high-level buses, particularly on TZen lines 2 and 3. All these projects are very much expected in Île-de-France. With regard to cycling, some EUR 200 million will be invested in 2021 and 2022 – EUR 100 million for the development of bicycle infrastructure and EUR 100 million for secure parking in front of railway stations – in order to enable our fellow citizens to understand this practice with greater confidence. See, honourable Member, that these means will enable us to secure capital investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u153	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u154	Nice Airport has put in place free antigenic tests since 30 October for departures and arrivals. Thanks to the ADP group, these tests are also available since 6 November in Orly, but only for passengers departing overseas, in the absence of PCR tests – Polymerase Chain Reaction, or chain polymerization reaction. With the previously imposed PCR test, each departure of aircraft was complicated, resulting in delays and compensation for the companies. Antigenic testing is therefore in the direction of controlling the epidemic and supporting airlines, which we are defending. The concern is that only 600 to 1000 tests per day are carried out at this airport, and, as I said, only on passengers destined for the overseas territories. With regard to Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport, you announced this morning that the objective was to have antigenic tests this week for departures and for arrivals of passengers from at-risk countries who did not take a test at departure. If this antigenic test is positive, there will be management at the airport medical centre. At the moment, our arrangements seem insufficient, especially those concerning arrivals: the control is failing and there is a lack of follow-up of passengers and their dissemination in the national territory. When I returned from the West Indies about ten days ago, I was able to see that there had been no check, neither at the start nor at the arrival. Coming back from Moscow two or three days ago, our former colleague Maurice Leroy was able to make the same observation: none of the passengers on his plane were checked when they all had PCR tests. Many holes therefore exist in the meshes of the net sometimes during departures – you seek to remedy them – and certainly during arrivals, as we can see. We want a real strategy to track passengers in air and sea transport in order to control the epidemic while supporting the economy. Since last March, we have had enough time to prepare for it. When are you going to put in place a policy of systematic testing for all passengers on arrival at French airports and ports, with isolation at the hotel for non-residents whose results are positive and with follow-up of all the people concerned, as is done in most European countries, in particular, we are told, in Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u155	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u156	First of all, let me come back quickly to the health protocol that we have deployed for air and maritime transport. In March and April, we put in place demanding cleaning and disinfection protocols to build a health safety continuum in which the tests were inserted. We have evolved our testing policy in response to advances in the epidemic. At present, we are trying to act on the circulation of the virus by testing where it circulates most rapidly, which has led us to adopt a classification of countries. It's a first axis of work. In the 20 countries classified as "red scarlet", the tests are mandatory seventy-two hours before flying to France. In countries classified "red" tests are also mandatory seventy-two hours before departure, but they are also available on arrival – this is the case you mentioned. For countries classified as 'green', mainly those in the Schengen area, we are still doing arduous work of harmonisation at European Union level, a relevant level of a comprehensive health policy. These rules will be mandatory from 11 November. Second axis of work: making access to tests easier and faster. About ten days ago, there was a gradual deployment at Nice airport, in connection with Mr.Estrosi and the services of the town hall. Last week, we extended the operation to Orly, in order to protect our overseas. This week, we are launching the tests in Roissy, both at the start and on arrival, in order to ensure a continuum as well as the most effective health protection possible. Ports enjoy the same health protection regime. The tests are carried out under the vigilance and control of the shipowners, especially for the ships coming from the Maghreb which arrive in Sète or Marseille. This demanding protocol applies equally to traffic between Corsica and Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u157	Mr Paul-André Colombani, draftsman of the opinion, took the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u158	In France, air pollution would prematurely kill 40,000 people a year. Its cost has been the subject of several estimates, a Senate commission of inquiry referring to the figure of 101 billion euros. In a recent report, the Court of Auditors noted policy shortcomings and called for the strengthening of regulatory, budgetary and fiscal instruments. Road transport is often referred to as responsible for the deterioration of air quality, at the risk of forgetting that maritime transport also contributes significantly. According to a study published by a group of European non-governmental organisations (NGOs), forty-seven ships produce ten times more sulphur dioxide than 260 million cars in the European Union. This pollution particularly affects ports and affects the health of the inhabitants of port cities. The entry into force in January 2020 of a regulation that divides the maximum sulphur rate by seven, is a first step taken by the IMO, the International Maritime Organization. Similarly, the EUR 200 million of the recovery plan devoted to the ecological transition of ports represents a step forward. However, much remains to be done to reduce the exposure of citizens to marine pollution, particularly sulphur oxides. Are you going to follow up on the proposal of the citizens' climate convention to ban the use of polluting engines during stops in ports? What is the status of negotiations to reduce the speed of vessel traffic? Would you be willing to extend the port police powers of the coastal mayors to the anchorage area?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u159	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u160	First of all, let me say a word about the national port strategy, which we are going to present at the end of the year, which includes some of the topics that you have mentioned. We want to improve the functioning of the supply chain, by promoting intermodality – and therefore the rail freight we have just mentioned because these axes have often been linked. We want to strengthen the attractiveness and sovereignty of our ports, important subjects on which there is much work to be done, particularly at European level. We obviously want to promote the energy transition of our ports, like territories that develop projects around hydrogen – I think, for example, of the Seine axis. Finally, we want to make the most of digital technologies so that French ports can make up for their backlog. In order to carry out this strategy, we will devote 400 million euros to the port sector – sea and river ports. To get to your questions, I would point out that we have already begun reflections, based on the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention. You are asking me about the ban on the use of polluting engines during anchorages in ports. All ships stop their propulsion engines when they park, but they generally consume electrical energy. European legislation provides for a 0.1% limit on sulphur emissions – this is the seven-by-seven division you mentioned. It also provides for the electrification of wharf stations, which would be the appropriate solution for the shutdown of thermal engines. This is the subject of the investments in the recovery plan and the 175 million euros dedicated to the ecological transition of the ports. As far as speed reduction is concerned, alongside shipowners, we are at the origin of an initiative with the IMO, which continues to thrive, even if the date of 2019 has not been chosen. We are continuing the exchanges in this direction. As far as port police powers are concerned, we have regular exchanges with local elected officials on the subject. Currently, it is not the mayor but the state that is competent to regulate the navigation and parking of ships beyond 300 metres from the shore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u161	We're done with the questions. We must consider the 161 amendments tabled on this text by the end of this evening's sitting. I therefore invite you, as far as possible, to brevity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u162	I call the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", listed in state B. I have before me three amendments, Nos 2259, 2654 and 443, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2259.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u163	This amendment by the Socialists and Related Group aims to invest 150 million euros per year to rebuild a fleet of night rolling stock and gradually relaunch a network of night trains in France and France abroad. In Europe, things are changing quite quickly: Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and more recently Austria continue to deploy their night trains. In January, for example, Austria will open a link with Belgium. We therefore propose to increase the number of night trains in the territory but also in close contact with our European partners. It should be remembered that the night train is a good substitute for the plane, both economical and ecological.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u164	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2654.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u165	My amendment also takes up a recommendation from the Climate Action Network and corresponds to a proposal from the Citizens' Climate Convention to develop a massive investment plan for rail transport. The "Yes on the Night Train" collective estimates that 1.5 billion euros, or 150 million a year until 2030, will be the investment needed to create fifteen new national lines. The train is a popular and popular alternative. More than 200,000 citizens signed a petition calling for a return of the offer of night trains. They would be happy to abandon their cars for the benefit of the train, or even abandon the plane, which is sometimes the only way to reach certain destinations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u166	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 443.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u167	These night trains, which allow our fellow citizens to travel at low prices, are very important. If 150 million are spent on them each year for ten years, fifteen new railway lines will be created for the entire territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u168	What is the Committee's opinion on the three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u169	You are right, ladies and gentlemen, to stress the importance of night trains, which are part of the transport decarbonisation strategy and must enable France to fulfil its commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. This is an opportunity for me to greet our former colleague Joël Giraud, who regularly referred to these lines. The recovery plan provides EUR 100 million to relaunch night train offers: EUR 50 million will be spent on the renovation of 50 cars, in order to rebuild a more suitable rolling stock; EUR 50 million will be used to improve the reception of passengers at the railway station. Your amendments are therefore more or less satisfied with this funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u170	Rather "less"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u171	Furthermore, we do not consider it appropriate to resort, as you do, to a reduction in the appropriations allocated to Action 41 of the 203 programme. They finance the assistance provided by the State to SNCF Réseau, which needs it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u173	We have, I repeat, made the development of night trains a political priority: in addition to the massive investment we have been investing in the network since 2017 – 3 billion a year for 10 years – in order to catch up with chronic underinvestment, we are spending EUR 100 million on these trains in the recovery plan. We are inspired by the work carried out in some European countries, notably Austria, which now has several dozen night train lines and is developing quite innovative business models. The report which will be submitted to Parliament by the end of the year will shed light on these different models and contribute to a collective reflection on the future. As the rapporteur has indicated, your amendments seem to me to be satisfactory: a request for withdrawal or an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u174	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u175	Deputy Minister, I would like to take advantage of the discussion of these amendments to say that I am pleased to see the importance you attach to night trains. Many of us in the majority wish for their development, which will take time, we know. I have already alerted your firm that a first step could be to re-establish stops on existing lines. I am thinking in particular of Vierzon. Allowing the night train that is already there to stop there would cost nothing. I wish you would follow up on my request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u177	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2252. Perhaps, Mr President, would you also like to support Amendment No 2257?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u178	You're taking me off guard, Madam President. Mr President, I still feel that my amendment No 2259 was not entirely satisfactory. My amendment No 2252 is more ambitious: it aims to strengthen the support for rail infrastructure by 1.5 billion around three priority axes – Amendment No 2257, which is in decline, proposes 650 million. The first axis, night trains, is still important because we have not been satisfied with our previous amendments. The second axis refers to "small lines" or "daily lines" – we did not find a fully satisfactory expression. During the discussion of the mobility policy bill, we pointed out the risk of leaving these lines, which are so essential for our territories, especially in rural areas. These promote economic and tourist attractiveness and the mobility of people within and between territories. They are very clearly a low-carbon alternative to the individual car. The third fundamental axis is rail freight. Unfortunately, over the past twenty years, hundreds of freight stations and branch lines have been closed and the number of railway operators working at Fret SNCF has increased from 12,000 to 4000. In order to stop this negative spiral, we propose to set a target of 30% freight transport by rail by 2020, to stop the privatisation of SNCF freight, to grant an ecological bonus to companies making 50% of the transport of their goods by rail and to levy 1 billion per year from the profits made by motorway companies in order to invest in the development of rail freight infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u179	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u180	Unfavorable opinion for the good and simple reason that the trajectory set with Barbara Pompili and Matthieu Orphelin in the framework of the Infrastructure Orientation Board was already very ambitious. Your amendments go beyond that: they are utopian. However, we all agree with the stated objectives. I agree with you in particular on the need to strengthen safety – we will have the opportunity to come back with the Minister responsible for transport, especially when we address the issue of level crossings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u182	Since 2017, investment in the rail sector has been unprecedented: €35 billion in debt recovery, €5 billion in the recovery plan, €3 billion per year for the network. For small lines and freight, very important issues for our territories, we respond present. The "small lines" plan, with €6 billion, is being deployed. Three first regions have already signed and many discussions are taking place with other regions. It will help save up to 9,000 kilometres of small lines. The work of Parliament gave rise to a first report, on which François Philizot's progress report was based. It also helped to define a framework for partnership negotiations between the state and the communities and formalize the plan I have just mentioned, funded by the recovery plan. With regard to freight, the aim is twofold: to support freight operators, who have been heavily affected by the crisis; to restore, in a more structural way, the competitiveness between rail and road, by means of tolls but also by supporting segments of the freight market such as the single car or combined transport, which by nature require subsidies and aid. As you can see, we are responding here, whether it is through the recovery plan or through the mechanisms voted on, in particular, during the budgetary discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u183	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 2253.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u184	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to strongly support actions to improve and develop rail networks, in particular small lines. During the discussion of the mobility policy bill, we had insisted on the risk of neglecting small lines, which are so important for rural areas. They guarantee economic and tourist attractiveness, the mobility of people within the territories, but also, between the territories, thanks to connections to the main lines. They must therefore be absolutely preserved and improved. Budgetary ambitions are not at the forefront of this finance bill. The Philizot report on small lines submitted to the Minister of Transport in February: "The need for overall funding is assessed by SNCF Réseau at €7.6 billion until 2028, of which 6.4 billion remain to be committed from 2020. This would be the result of a catch-up effort to bridge the investment gap [...]"
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u186	Unfavorable opinion. It must be recognised that the state supports the small lines even if we need more details, Mr. Deputy Minister, regarding the breakdown of these funds. There is no longer a question of closing these lines, as the Spinetta report advocated in 2018, and we can collectively welcome them. In the continuation of the Philizot report, a plan to support the fine services of the territory has been put in place and resources have been made available.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u188	We have mobilised EUR 300 million for the next two years for small railway lines. The first operations of the recovery plan will be announced in the near future. The recovery plan for the Greater East region, for example, represents EUR 930 million, financed by the State and the region. Over 1000 kilometres of small railway lines will be maintained by 2030. This is a considerable gesture in favour of the quality of service of daily transport for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u189	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u190	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u191	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2254 and 2655, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2254.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u192	This amendment also covers small lines. You have just mentioned, Minister Delegate, the 300 million you intend to dedicate to their renovation. In our view, the funding needs are much higher. We estimate that investment efforts should be EUR 600 million per year from 2021 and EUR 750 million per year from 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u193	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2655.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u194	Greater budgetary efforts are needed to preserve these small lines. The $300 million announced over two years is well below what is needed. We target 600 million a year and then 750 million beyond 2025. Without massive long-term investments, 40 per cent of the small line network, or 4000 kilometres, is threatened with closure. We are far from your 1000 kilometers saved. You say you won't close small lines, but, in fact, you let them die. This amendment provides for the creation of a new programme entitled "Investment Fund for Small Railways" and a plethora of EUR 600 million. We had to propose the necessary funding from Action 12 "Support for cogeneration with natural gas and other thermal means" of Programme 345, but we call on the Government to ensure that this is not necessary. I stress that strictly budgetary matters are quite secondary here. As has been recalled, air pollution causes 48,000 premature deaths each year. The modal delay would help to reduce the number of modal shifts and thus reduce their cost, which is estimated at several tens of billions of euros per year, or even a hundred billion, according to some. So you have significant margins to finance these massive investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u195	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u196	The issue of fine services to the territory has been a hot topic since the beginning of the legislature and all actors in the field agree that it is urgent to resolve it. The regions often tell us that the state is not there to honour the path voted here. That is why I understand the authors of these amendments who are drawing the alarm signal. I am sending an unfavorable opinion on behalf of the Committee on Finance, while asking you, Mr Deputy Minister, for clarification. We had already drawn your attention in the context of the control of the budgetary evaluation on the weak implementation of the State-region plan contracts. It would be utopian to ask you to come back to the departmental railways, but let me offer you Gironde's Economic Railways. (Mr. Benoit Simian shows a book and sends it to the Deputy Minister.) We could draw inspiration from what Gambetta did at the time as part of the Freycinet plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u197	I would remind you, Mr Special Rapporteur, that there are no objects on display in the Chamber. It's a rule everyone's bent on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u198	It's not an object, it's a book!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u199	Especially in the middle of containment when it is not possible to buy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u200	Yes, that's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u202	The plan to safeguard small lines amounts to EUR 6.4 billion over ten years, which corresponds to the EUR 600 million per year you mentioned. The EUR 300 million over the next two years I mentioned correspond to the budgetary breakdown for the recovery plan. I have indicated that the State has already signed agreements with three regions: the Grand Est region for 930 million euros, the Centre-Val de Loire region for just over 200 million euros and the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region for more than 500 million euros, i.e. a total of almost 2 billion out of the 6 billion I have just mentioned. Discussions are also ongoing with the various regions concerned. I have no doubt that we will be able to sign agreements with all the regions very quickly. Anyway, that's what I want. This is the content of our discussions with those in these communities who are obviously very committed to this issue. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u203	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 2255.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u204	The aim of this amendment is to warn of the need for a moratorium on the closure of small railway lines, as well as of any reorganization that may lead to a deterioration in the level of service on these lines. It should be remembered that a Frenchman who has to travel 100 kilometres a day to get to his place of work will consume on average 6.07 litres of fuel, i.e., for a diesel vehicle, an average expenditure of 9.04 euros. If paid to SMIC, he spends one hour and ten minutes of his working time each day simply to pay for his home-to-work journey. The car is not so much a chosen mode of transport when the distance is large, as a mode of transport experienced, due to the absence of alternative public transport solutions or the lack of supply where this alternative exists. Only the maintenance of the existing small railway lines, the development of a new and strengthened offer around peak hours and an attractive pricing policy are likely to offer a credible and effective alternative for our citizens. In order to be able to carry out a global reflection on the network to be developed in each territory, it is first and foremost necessary to put an end to the haemorrhage of recent years. This amendment therefore proposes a moratorium on the closure of stations and on any reorganization that may contribute to a deterioration in the level of service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u206	Same opinion as on the previous amendment: unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u208	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u209	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u210	Minister, does the amount you quoted on the small railway lines include the cost of weeding linked to the ban on the use of glyphosate on tens of thousands of kilometres of lines? What is the projected total financial impact of this measure taken by the Government over the same period?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u211	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u212	This volume was included in the recovery plan, in particular to offset the additional costs for SNCF Réseau. This is indeed a significant amount, since it is in the order of EUR 600 million in memory. In addition, research is continuing to find cheaper alternatives for the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u213	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2256.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u214	That has been said, rail freight has been in a negative spiral for more than 20 years with the removal of posts and equipment. An ambitious plan must therefore be adopted. That is why we propose to invest an additional EUR 1 billion. Above all, we propose to set a target of 30% of freight transport by rail by 2030. To do so, budgetary ambitions are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u216	Colleague, I agree with you on the objectives of the development of rail freight, which we discussed a great deal during the consideration of the mobility policy bill. Moreover, the Government must submit a report on the objectives to be set and the strategy to be adopted with regard to rail freight. A significant effort has already been made in favour of freight since EUR 110 million is included in Action 41 "Railway" of Programme 203, that exceptional support of EUR 170 million is provided for Action 45 "Combined transport", and that, in the framework of the recovery plan, in addition to EUR 4.1 billion spent on the recapitalisation of SNCF, EUR 250 million will be used to develop multimodal rail freight infrastructure. The Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u217	I call Mr Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2936.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u218	This amendment, which I am presenting with members of the Freedom and Territories Group, aims to provide massive support for the security of level crossings. We know too many examples of dramatic accidents and we have seen, in the context of the special report, that little progress has been made in the completion of work on level crossings. Our colleague Laurence Gayte, responsible for a mission by the Government, presented an excellent report in April 2019 in which she stressed the priority of this work and made a number of recommendations. Our amendment should enable the Government to demonstrate its willingness to better secure the 150 or so crossings that pose serious problems. It was the subject of a broad debate in the Committee on Finance and I remember my colleague Julien Aubert telling me that I had been a "little arm".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u219	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u220	So I got him a little muscled!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u221	[[Smile]] We were wondering what members of the opposition were doing: we have the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u223	The mechanism that you voted under the mobility guidance law is already strong. In any case, it corresponds to what is expected of operators, in particular SNCF Réseau. This financial objective is built and implemented in conjunction with communities. I chair a ministerial committee on crossing safety to meet on November 19. We are careful that the means correspond to effective actions on the ground. For the year 2021, this amount, rising from €40 million to €45 million, corresponds to the LOM's path that has been voted on and enables us to meet the Government's commitments on this subject. The Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u224	Mr Simian, you have tabled your amendment, but, unless I am mistaken, the opinion of the committee has not been explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u225	The Commission was in favour of a slightly lower amount. For our part, we have been a little muscular, as Mr. Aubert has indicated that we can do so. Pires Beaune added that work on a crossing in her constituency in the Puy-de-Dôme had to be carried out for an amount of €8 million. In short, this subject had been the subject of a major debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u226	[[Smile]] That does not really inform us of the opinion of the committee. Madam Special Rapporteur, you wish to supplement Mr Simian's remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u227	In the Committee on Finance, we have adopted Amendment No 1254 by Mr Simian, which we will discuss later, which aims to increase the budget allocated for the security of crossings by EUR 8 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u229	On the other hand, this amendment has not been discussed by the committee. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u230	On Amendment No 2528, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u231	This amendment is also intended to strengthen the policy of securing level crossings. In 2018, there were 155 crossings registered in the national security program, compared to 437 in 1997. The removal of a crossing may take several years. It involves the involvement of the local and regional authorities concerned, the State and SNCF Network which co-finance the work. Currently, the lack of funding for communities can hinder projects. In order to protect our citizens, it is necessary to accelerate and amplify the processing dynamics of these dangerous level crossings by increasing the funding directed to Action 51 "Rail Safety" of the programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u233	Allow me, in turn, to welcome the work of our colleague Laurence Gayte on securing the level crossings which have increased the appropriations on this subject. The committee did not consider this amendment. Personally, I'm unfavorable. Minister, I understand that some of the funds in the recovery plan could be allocated to secure crossings. The details you could give us on this subject would be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u235	In 2021, an additional 40 million will be allocated under the recovery plan to secure level crossings, a total of €85 million. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u236	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u237	I want to support this amendment, which I did not do for the previous one but which I could have done. When we know that half the accidents between a train and a car are fatal, we understand that the things we're talking about can save lives. If we compare the EUR 15 million of the amendment with the amounts we handle in the budget discussion, it is clear that these appropriations must be increased. Deputy Minister, in fact, you are telling us that the recovery plan devotes $40 million to securing crossings, while the normal budget allocates cherry tails...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u238	45 million anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u239	However, almost half of the expenditure in question escapes the mission concerned, which relates to the budget year and is somewhat complicated to follow. This amendment deserves to be adopted: it does not endanger the state budget, but if we procrastinate lives can be cut.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u240	The next speaker is Mr. Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u241	One must have an idea of what these amounts represent: the average cost of a single crossing is 8 million euros. The previous amendment concerned an amount of 25 million; This one out of 15 million. If you do not grant these additional appropriations, Minister Delegate, have you at least considered with the Ministry of the Interior the equipment of level crossings as a means of modernization, for example by installing radars at each crossing in the framework of a public-private partnership – this innovative method of financing that allows us to find new resources that the State no longer manages to release? What is the status of the debate on these recommendations that I had discussed with Laurence Gayte during her mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u242	I call Mrs Zivka Park, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u243	On this important subject, the Committee on Finance has adopted an amendment to add an additional EUR 8 million to the financing of level crossings. We were waiting for the minister's response to the recovery plan. As I understand it, last year's 40 million budget has been increased by $5 million, a total of $45 million in the 203 program of this PLF, plus $40 million under the Recovery Plan to further secure level crossings. Is that true?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u244	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u245	That is the case, but let me clarify the overall economy of our action in this area. We are accelerating work on level crossings – this is the purpose of the additional €40 million, which will allow the ongoing projects to be completed more quickly. On the other hand, Mr Simian, we are experimenting with new equipment, especially in the Hauts-de-France, if I remember correctly – we will be able to provide you with the list of experiments in progress, which take advantage of the most modern technologies and which are carried out in connection with the Ministry of the Interior, at the next meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Railway Crossings on 19 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u246	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2528.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u247	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 101 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 24 Against 76
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u248	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1254.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u249	This amendment deals once again with level crossings, but aims to increase their funding by only EUR 8 million, the maximum cost of a single crossing. I hope that the national representation will agree to secure an additional crossing in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u251	Satisfied amendment; Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u252	I would point out that the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u253	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2661, 2260 and 2763, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2260 and 2763 are identical. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2661.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u254	[[Smile]] I'd like to talk to you about a bike, specifically the bike fund. He is a Member of Parliament who has been on a bicycle for three years every week to the Assembly who speaks...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u255	He's lucky!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u256	...but probably I'm a rare case. The change in our transport practices must be organised on a large scale, which cannot be achieved without state support for bicycle infrastructure. The public space must be adapted to new forms of mobility – I can assure you that this is not yet the case. Today, the road is only suitable for cars, while 60% of journeys are for distances of less than five kilometres – about 20 minutes of bicycles for a less experienced cyclist, which is quite accessible. The Government intends to increase by three the modal share of bicycles in French daily journeys from 2.7 per cent to 9 per cent by 2024 and, to this end, has developed a bike plan based on a fund of €350 million over seven years, or €50 million per year. However, according to the RAC – Réseau action climat – and the FUB – Fédération française des utilisateurs de la bicyclique – it will be almost necessary to increase the investment effort to achieve this objective and to reach 70 euros per year and per capita over the next ten years. The players in the sector that I met at a trade fair in September explain that cycling is a considerable economic opportunity: investing in infrastructure means allowing the bike industry as a whole to move from an upward trajectory to an exponential trajectory in terms of employment and turnover – without the slightest cost or almost for the local authorities, as the bike creates ecological activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u257	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 2260.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u258	I did not really understand how many level crossings would be carried out in 2021; I therefore invite all cyclists to pay attention. Amendment No 2260 by the Socialist and Related Group aims at increasing the resources allocated to the Bike Plan by EUR 350 million for 2021. The current investment trend is insufficient; In order to achieve the Government's goal of increasing the modal share of cycling to 9 per cent, the investment effort must be increased to 70 euros per year and per capita. Our European neighbours are devoting far more resources to the development of bicycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u259	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2763.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u260	This amendment is presented to you by a Member of Parliament who does not go to the National Assembly by bicycle and on account of the fact that his constituency is 220 kilometres from Paris! The suppression of trains by SNCF and traffic bottled in Paris, however, may force me to do so... On the other hand, I go every day by bike to my permanence in Bar-le-Duc. The amendment is intended to increase the means for the construction of bicycle paths in order to achieve your objectives, which we support, Mr.Minister Delegate, because the current infrastructure is not enough. That is why we very much hope that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u262	You all rightly recall that the 2018 Bike Plan plans to triple the modal part of the bike from 2.7% – a small percentage – to 9%; the objective is not far-fetched but still important. To this end, a Vélo fund has been allocated €350 million over seven years, or €50 million per year. [[Minister for Ecological Transition smiles]] At its hearing by the committee in mid-October, the DGIMTM – Directorate-General for Infrastructure, Transport and the Sea – indicated that according to the latest data, the modal share of the bike has already almost doubled; It's a very encouraging first signal. It is true that the health crisis has encouraged the practice of cycling and we have all seen the emergence in our cities of new bike paths – sometimes strangely designed, but at least they are there. I would remind you that the recovery plan provides for an additional EUR 200 million for bicycles, which will help to co-finance projects decided on in connection with local authorities – an important issue – in order to develop and secure cycle paths, to develop the continuity of the network – an essential objective – and to promote intermodality, in particular by linking cycle paths to bus stations. I do not go back to the provisions that we have all adopted together in the mobility guidance law: the sustainable mobility package which encourages the regular use of the bike, aid in the purchase of an electric bicycle or aid in the repair of bicycles. For all these reasons, I am personally opposed to these amendments which the Committee on Finance has not considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u264	Of the 350 million bike funds planned over seven years, 114 million have already been allocated for 2019 and 2020, and a new call for projects is under way. The Special Rapporteur recalled that an additional EUR 200 million is being mobilised under the Recovery Plan, plus EUR 150 million of European funds. All this will allow, in the coming years, to finance more than 600 cycle paths and to secure more than 1000 shelters, especially in the vicinity of the stations, in order to support the development of the bicycle industry, rightly mentioned by Mr Prud'homme, in favour of which we are mobilising additional devices in the field of repair aid and the training of mechanics, for example. During confinement, many people, as a result of anxiety about the use of public transportation, turned to walking and cycling. In Île-de-France, for example, 30% decided to give up public transport; Half went over the car, the other half on the walk and the bike. It is therefore a lasting movement that we accompany by means of adapted devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u265	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u266	[[Laughs and applause on several benches]] I would point out, Mr. Pancher, that my constituency is 600 kilometres from here...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u267	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u268	So I'm not just coming on a bike! Intermodality needs to be improved, including the storage of folding bikes in TGVs. The 350 million budget presented by the Deputy Minister, that is, 50 million a year, is well below the significant increase that we are proposing to provide the bike fund with 500 million a year. I have been very critical – and I am still critical – of the measures taken during the confinement and the health crisis, but, in discussing with the bikers in my constituency, I have convinced myself, in your opinion, that the cheque for the repair of a bike is an intelligent expense that stimulates activity, generates flows and arouses interest in this mode of travel. However, this mechanism should not be interrupted at the end of the health crisis. On the contrary, it must be sustained, for example, over a period of ten years. This will increase the modal part of the bike. Aid must be provided for the development of the sector and the construction of infrastructure, not only in the vicinity of railway stations. For people like me who live eight or nine kilometres from a train station, the last kilometre is not the most important: you must be able to make the whole route by bike, safely and in about 20 minutes. This will make it possible to develop the bike massively! [[Mr. Gérard Leseul applauds]] It is a neutral investment for communities as this sector will help to boost activity and increase tax revenues. The main French manufacturer of electric bicycles has alpagged me on the grounds that not investing in the bike would be stupid as this thing works in hell! Once again, this sector must be accompanied massively and the State must be an actor. Everywhere, territories disindustrialize; the manufacturer I was telling you about right now had bike frames made in Taiwan when they could be made here! Similarly, it is necessary to help those involved in the aviation industry who are the only ones to master certain techniques applicable to high-level bicycles. I urge you to act urgently in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u269	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1069.u270	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Continued review of the mission's credits "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The meeting is adjourned.
