ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u1	The next item is the new reading of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal (No. 3526, 3631).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u2	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u3	I am very pleased to be with you today to consider the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. In the case of contact with SARS-CoV-2 during the examination of the text at first reading in this Chamber, I was unable to participate in your debates, and believe that I regret it. It was therefore at a distance that I followed your exchanges and the unanimous vote of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u4	Unanime back then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u5	Before I go into the details of the text, let me thank your rapporteur, whose meticulous and very enlightening work on a matter as complex as that of refunds, really deserves to be welcomed. As the Joint Joint Committee meeting on 19 November did not agree, you are called upon to review this important text again, which is the culmination of a long work which was initiated by the President of the Republic during his speech in Ouagadougou in November 2017. He expressed his willingness to create the necessary conditions for the restitution of works of African heritage, in the context of the renewal and deepening of the partnership between France and the countries of the African continent. This project to restore twenty-six works from Béhanzin's treasure to the Republic of Benin and the sword attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall and its sheath to the Republic of Senegal is part of a policy of cultural cooperation already well under way with these two countries. It takes place in a general context of reflection on the role and missions of museums in Europe and around the world. It takes into account the exceptional nature of the works and objects that we wish to return to the two countries that have requested them. I will not go back to the details of the objects concerned: you all now know the characteristics of these works, their origin and, of course, their exceptional character. On the other hand, I want to stress the meaning, scope and consequences of the text before you. First of all, it should be borne in mind that the restitution of cultural property by one State to another is in itself not unheard of, even in the recent period. Among the last renditions made, I will mention that of a stolen statue of Amon-Min in Egypt in 1981, pursuant to the judgment of a French court, or that of twenty-one Maori heads in New Zealand by the law passed on May 18, 2010 on the initiative of Senator Catherine Morin-Desailly. These different cases clearly show that French law proposes several ways of making refunds. With regard to the objects we are dealing with today, the Government has decided to proceed through legislation. Indeed, Benin and Senegal did not have jurisdiction to challenge France's ownership of these objects. It is therefore a decision of the legislator, and not of the judge, that must respond to their request. Therefore, this law, if adopted, will not have the effect of creating jurisprudence, as would a judge's decision. This bill applies only to the specific case of the objects which it expressly lists: it does not establish any general right to restitution on the basis of abstract criteria that would be defined a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u6	It's good to make that clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u7	The legislative procedure is also necessary for us, since the return of objects implies a derogation from the principle of the inalienability of public collections, which is enshrined in the Heritage Code. However, while this bill proposes to violate the principle of inalienability on an ad hoc basis, it does not in any way challenge it, nor has previous laws of the same type, such as the one of 2010. I would like to thank Mrs Constance Le Grip, whose amendment adopted at first reading has removed any uncertainty in this respect, by including in the text the reference to this principle and by explicitly designating these refunds as derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u8	An excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u9	As I said earlier, despite the unanimous support of both chambers for the two original articles of the text, the Joint Joint Committee was not concluded, mainly because of the disagreement over the creation of a council for the restitution of works. Even if we will have an opportunity to discuss it at length when we consider the amendments, I would like to say two words. On the one hand, scientific work already exists: it was carried out by the conservation teams of the museums concerned and allowed to guide the choices of the Government. The impact study accompanying the bill is an example of this. Such a body would only double the work of museums and collectors. On the other hand, the creation of such a council seems to me to be in complete contradiction with the desire for direct dialogue with the requesting countries and with Parliament. You all pointed out on these benches a few weeks ago: every restitution request is unique; Each object has its own history, which needs to be studied and studied. I remain convinced that the creation of such a body, while you regularly deplore the divestiture of Parliament and the loss of its prerogatives, is not the right solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u11	I also know that the departure of the crown adorning Queen Ranavalona III's dais has raised many questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u13	I have since had the opportunity to speak on this issue on several occasions, but I would like to make a number of points before you. As it stands, only a deposit agreement has been signed with Madagascar: it is therefore not a restitution. As you know, the latter will only be able to intervene after a law has been passed to derogate from the principle of the inalienability of public collections, to which we are all committed. Of course, the date of this announcement, which took place the day after the debate in the Senate, was unfortunate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u14	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u15	...but, as I have indicated, this request is not recent: it goes back several years. In this case, it is only a loan to Madagascar: the restitution of the work will have to be approved by Parliament. At no time was it my intention or that of the Government to conceal any information from the national representation on this matter, which I had referred to before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. The primary function of culture is to express and explore what our human condition has of universal. This conviction, which is the foundation of the French Ministry of Culture, may seem, alas, less and less shared nowadays. This bill is also a way of reminding us that we will never give it up. It is in the name of such a conviction, of such an ideal, that France agrees to return works to other States only if they undertake to preserve their heritage vocation, that is to say, that they continue to be preserved and presented to the public in places dedicated to this function.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u16	It's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u17	In the case of Benin and Senegal, these guarantees have been given. France supports the initiatives of these two countries in favour of the heritage, far beyond the refunds alone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This bill, which will allow the return of the twenty-six works from Béhanzin's treasure to the Republic of Benin and the sword attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall and its sheath to the Republic of Senegal, is an act of friendship with these two countries. It will allow Beninese and Senegalese people to reconnect more directly with their past and with elements of their history, as our own collections allow us to do. These symbolic objects will allow them to think of a present and build a future of their own, while sharing them with all those who will visit these new museums. It is an honour and a pride for France to be able to play an active role in this field and to contribute to the continuing feeding of one another in our common history.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u18	Mr Yannick Kerlogot, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u19	I'm not hiding that I'm surprised to be in front of you today. The text before us was the subject of a unanimous vote in this House at first reading. We are now required, not to amend the first two articles, which constitute a consensus, but to examine an additional article which causes, let us say, a real disagreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u21	The bill to restore cultural property to the Republics of Benin and Senegal is the first achievement of a strong will expressed by the President of the Republic, namely to rethink France's relationship with Africa by retaining culture as an area in which to build new ties, strengthen bilateral cooperation and nurture friendship relations by assuming a often dark page in our history, that of colonization. In order to give citizens of Benin and Senegal access to a heritage that links them to their origins, a symbolic, prestigious and historical heritage that includes, for some of the objects concerned, a sacred dimension, the bill aims to respond positively to the demands made clearly by these two republics of sub-Saharan Africa. We are thus asked to give our consent to the transfer of ownership of cultural property forming part of the public collections of France, after the latter has been the subject of an official referral by these two States: we are far from the fact that the prince too often denounced since the first reading in the Senate. We unanimously voted, at first reading, for a text that we praised for its strong symbolic significance and message to African youth and Afro-descendant youth in our country. In order to reassure many of us, we took care to adopt amendments aimed at clearly stating the derogatory nature of the refunds, in the name of the inalienability, imprescriptibility and impassability of public collections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u23	This derogatory character implies that any transfer of ownership of cultural property is validated, after study, by parliamentarians. Is it still necessary to remind him? No heritage object kept in state museums can be returned without the consent of parliamentarians: laws must be passed on a case-by-case basis – this is the purpose of this text. Even when restitution is requested at the end of a loan agreement to a foreign museum, as is precisely the case for the sword attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall, who is exposed to the MCN – Museum of Black Civilizations – in Dakar, it can only be definitively validated by Parliament. Article 2 of the text was, moreover, adopted by the two chambers without controversy. With the exception of patrimonial human remains returned to New Zealand and South Africa, France has so far not returned any cultural property requiring legislative work similar to the one before us: restitutions to Benin and Senegal would be the first to be carried out by our country. They are, moreover, integrated into existing heritage and cultural cooperation arrangements and are expected to strengthen over time. In my capacity as rapporteur, on the basis of the information I was able to gather during the hearings and exchanges with the ministries concerned, I cannot share the idea expressed in the Joint Joint Committee – CMP – that, when it comes to restoring cultural property, "diplomaticism prevails over heritage in inter-ministerial arbitrations". We have had the opportunity to clarify this on several occasions since the beginning of the examination of the bill: Beninese and Senegalese requests have been the subject of a scientific and historical process initiated jointly by the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Culture, which mobilized the curators of the museums concerned to confirm the "bad acquired" nature of the objects claimed. In this capacity, as I was able to do in committee on Wednesday, I would like to provide you with information that was recently transmitted to me by the Ministry of Culture. They demonstrate today's commitment to the curators of the Quai Branly Museum, whose mission of searching for the provenances of cultural property will be strengthened. For example, for the past year there has been a review of collections aimed at identifying objects acquired by violence or administrative coercion, and those whose provenance remains contested. This initiative covers all the collections of the four continents. A first perimeter of works on which suspicions weigh has been circumscribed – for Africa, 240 objects are concerned. These works will need to be thoroughly researched to confirm or reverse these suspicions. To this end, the museum's research fellowships have been reoriented to issues of origin. New, more specific scholarships are being created, in particular with partners such as the Bibliothèque nationale de France and the Institut national d'histoire de l'art. To coordinate all this work, both internally and with external partners, a research officer position has been specifically created – the conservator recruited for this purpose arrives this month. In addition, as soon as the health context permits, missions will be made to the various African countries concerned to allow for fluid exchange. In the opposite direction, African curators will be invited to work in Paris: in 2021, for example, the director of the national museum of Chad will study the creation of an inventory of Chadian collections in Europe, based on what was achieved for the dispersed Kanak heritage. In addition, in 2019 Chad made a request for restitution of 10,000 objects. As you can see, additional means will help to deepen the necessary research work prior to any restitution. It is an opportunity to recall that France is seized of two types of restitution requests: on the one hand, concerning symbolic, prestigious and inventoried objects, such as the one expressed by Côte d'Ivoire concerning the drum of the Atchan people, and on the other hand, the numerous claims, which are more of a claim, quite legitimate, but which are not the expression of a successful reflection. To return to Chad, it goes without saying that the type of cooperation proposed by France, which I have just mentioned, will have to allow the Chadian authorities to better understand the historical reality of the origin of objects from their country in our public collections. Chad will be better able to understand the need to review its official request in the light of the scientific knowledge that has been shared. Financially, for the musée du quai Branly, the budget estimate of the various expenditure items involved in the examination of collections amounts to a total of € 200000 per year. All this additional information shows that there is now a real willingness to strengthen research approaches. I come to the creation by the Senate of a national council to reflect on the movement and return of cultural goods outside Europe. I remain convinced that such a body would be redundant with regard to inter-ministerial cooperation as it has taken place in the context of the refunds which we are dealing with. It would also present the risk, as I have already said, of initiating the act of trust which must prevail in a restitution procedure between two States.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u25	I have come to the conclusion that an additional body is not justified when parliamentarians can initiate hearings and missions allowing them to have access to additional opinions before they vote on a transfer of ownership. The National Reflection Council would, of course, be the result of an initiative by Parliament to defend its prerogatives and independence, but it would, in my view, be a duplicate that is not justified in terms of public finances or in practice, because its actions would be in addition to those carried out by the ministries and museums seized by a request for restitution, the conclusions of which lie in the related impact assessment associated with the bill. I conclude by recalling that joint inter-ministerial work has been carried out between the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture on the first cases dealt with, Benin and Senegal, from the referral by the requesting State to the draft law before us today. This method was exposed to parliamentarians at the various hearings. It includes, in particular, the establishment of a list of goods and a search of their origins. This work prefigures what an interdepartmental unit can be, which already exists in fact. We can only encourage the announced willingness to make this organization more formal...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u26	Here we are: more formal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u27	... so that it becomes more agile and has a work plan for the coming months. How did the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation work together? After the formal referral of a State, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs seizes the Ministry of Culture, which conducts a multi-stage investigation. The Ministry of Culture thus invites the museum which preserves the goods requested to carry out the search of provenance. This museum verifies that the requested works are well referenced in the French public collections. At the same time, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs shall ensure that any restitution may be accompanied by enhanced cultural and heritage cooperation, including museum cooperation, with the requesting country. It sheds light on the state of the bilateral relationship and the institutional partner approached to receive the goods, in particular the appropriate political moment for such restitution, if decided, to make full sense. The inter-ministerial unit is required, as required for each case, to request reports from experts. In order for the work to be carried out in depth by involving all the French partners as well as those of the applicant country, this unit should provide a written note on the appraisal of each application for decision-making. We can ask for a commitment in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Marie-George Buffet and Béatrice Descamps also applaud]] It was useful to mention this scientific, historical and transparent approach, at the end of which parliamentarians are called upon to take a decision to allow the transfer of ownership of cultural property. The amendments that we will be considering will make it possible to come back to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u28	Remarkable intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u29	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u30	The draft law contains two provisions aimed at derogating from the principle of the inalienability of national collections, which make it possible to return the sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall to the Republic of Senegal, and the 26 objects constituting Abomey's treasure to the Republic of Benin, respectively. I would point out that these refunds are the result of official requests to the French Republic, which have been the subject of historical studies and preliminary research by museums and curators. They are not the result of a unilateral decision by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u31	It's still kind of the Prince's act!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u32	No, Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u33	Added to this scientific approach is a diplomatic approach that accompanies ambitious cooperation in the design of exhibition venues, but also in training curators and even ensuring the preservation and security of collections over the long term. Finally, the return of these works conveys three strong messages. First of all, it is the hand stretched towards Africa as a sign of friendship – it is not just an act of cultural diplomacy. It is then the reparation of an injustice: we return objects removed from their country of origin in negative circumstances during the colonial past of France. Finally, it is an act of confidence in the African youth that is the strength of this continent, where 70 per cent of the population is under the age of 30: we must help it regain access to its heritage. Returning to the text, the majority group of Members The Republic on the move welcomes once again all the work of the rapporteur, particularly during the numerous hearings. Personally, as the text manager for my group, I really enjoyed working with him. At first reading, the text was amended in the constructive spirit of this majority, which allowed it to be adopted unanimously on 6 October. In the same spirit, in committee, on the occasion of this new reading, we retained the semantic changes adopted in the Senate and then restored the term "restitution", which we believe is more appropriate for the title of this text. On the other hand, we have deleted clause 3 introduced in the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u35	... article whose content led to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. We regret this failure all the more as the content of the clause in question moves away from the very purpose of the bill – but perhaps it is intended to make future restitutions impossible?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u36	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u37	What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u38	Article 3 creates a national council for reflection on the movement and return of extra-European cultural goods, which we consider unnecessary and inappropriate. It seems useless, because it would duplicate the historical research and scientific expertise of the museums, mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Note that this work is carried out in close connection with the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, because the diplomatic aspect is just as important, when it is not essential; However, diplomats would be absent from the National Reflection Council. In addition, this provision reappears a recently deleted body in the bill on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as ASAP, which, in most cases, failed to hold its meetings due to lack of quorum. This national council would thus risk living the same history. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Article 3 also seems inappropriate because the body it creates would establish a doctrine in the course of its reflections that would make any restitution complex, if not impossible, while calling into question the very principle of the inalienability of national collections. However, we affirm two principles in this bill: that of processing restitution requests on a case-by-case basis, thereby, where appropriate, derogating from the inalienability of national collections, and that of leaving this prerogative to the executive and legislative authorities alone. It is up to parliamentarians to seize the fullness of their task of monitoring the application of the law, thus monitoring the returns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u39	It's good when you say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u40	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u41	We are again considering the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. This text, which was a consensus among us and which should have been agreed in the Joint Joint Committee, has seen its examination polluted...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u43	...by unfortunate initiatives. In full consideration of the bill by the Senate, the Government announced the loan, with a view to its restitution, of the decorative crown of the dais of the last queen of Madagascar, Ranavalona III. This announcement, a new illustration of the Prince, came to throw the trouble: while we were discussing limited restitutions, on a well-defined list, we were told new ones. These are all fetters to the principle of the inalienability of public collections, to which we are very attached. This is a principle that must be reaffirmed, as must the principles of non-applicability and non-applicability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u45	Definitive restitution is, moreover, only one of the possible solutions. Cultural property must be able to travel, be subject to deposits, temporary refunds or loans. Why insist on making restitutions if not to serve diplomacy, using cultural heritage opportunely?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u46	It's amazing to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u47	However, this is a practice that is controversial and has many limitations. Let us recall the controversy legitimately arising following the unwelcome presidential announcement of the loan of Bayeux tapestry in the United Kingdom. Such an operation would have endangered the proper preservation of this invaluable work. In contrast to being diverted into a strategy of influence with limited effects, restitutions of works must be part of a dialogue and cultural cooperation with other countries. It should not be a question of ownership by one country rather than another, but of sharing our cultural experiences. The French museums have retained the works, not in a desire to nationalize the treasures of humanity, but with a universalistic dimension of preserving this world heritage and transmitting it to generations to come. It is in our museums that dialogue between cultures can take place, and care must be taken not to associate with the works that are associated with it the mark of a nationalist claim. It is to ensure that this French view of cultural property, which gives them superior status and special protection, is preserved that the Senate has introduced a new clause in the bill. Unfortunately, as a result of the stubbornness of the majority, Article 3 did, however, provide for the creation of a national council to reflect on the movement and return of cultural goods outside Europe. This council, by virtue of its multidisciplinary scientific expertise, was a balanced proposal which should have had no difficulty in being adopted. It is only by having such an institution that we can truly guarantee, in the future, the defence of the principle of inalienability in the face of the multiple attacks of the executive. At first reading, our group, The Republicans, supported the bill and thus the return of these cultural property to Benin and Senegal. But the announcement of the loan, most certainly with a view to its restitution, of the crown of the dais of the Malagasy queen, moreover in full consideration of the bill by the Senate, was a further proof of contempt for parliamentary work and a new example by the Prince; Unfortunately, she came to throw the trouble in a calm debate. As a result of this incident, it is no longer possible to decorate the restitution of these cultural property with the reaffirmation of the principle of inalienability. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The majority of the Republicans will therefore abstain from this text. This abstention is all the more motivated by the fact that clause 3, introduced by the Senate and, I repeat, an indispensable balancing measure, would not be restored at the end of this sitting. And it is because we believe it is imperative to reintroduce it that we propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u49	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u50	The question of refunds is essential to our country's new relationship with the African continent, as the Minister and the rapporteur have just pointed out. If it questions our common history, it must above all pave the way for a partnership relationship in rupture with the tormented and critical periods of the Françafrique. We know that the passage of this bill is primarily symbolic: restitution is a way of enshrining the right to the heritage of African peoples, but also of allowing them to re-approve part of their history and for us to make honourable amends on part of ours. In 2017 in Ouagadougou, the President of the Republic launched a new dynamic by clearly wanting to break with French doctrine on the restitution of cultural property: he thus expressed the wish that "the African heritage be developed in Paris but also in Dakar, Lagos and Cotonou". Following this speech, we, the French political leaders, are now turning this intention into action. The Democratic and Related Democrats Movement will of course vote on this bill because it follows a path that its members defend. Nevertheless, we recalled at first reading that this text provides only a one-time answer to an immediate question; Focusing on a list of predefined objects, it does not offer a comprehensive solution to simplify the legal framework for refunds. We believe it is necessary to go further in order to better regulate this movement of restitutions and to reflect on the drafting of a framework law. It could initiate a reform of the legal regime for restitution to make it more readable, more fluid and less dependent on political hazards. This would also allow us to reflect on the articulation of this reform with the principle of inalienability of the collections of public museums established by article L. 451-7 of the Heritage Code, which prevents the decommissioning of works from a legacy or gift, without having to pass each time through an ad hoc law...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u51	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u52	... and amend this provision accordingly. The aim of this work will of course be to find a balance between the need to preserve the heritage of French museums, on the one hand, and more frequent and less complex restitutions to be implemented on the other. The development of a framework law on restitution would also address a broader set of issues such as strengthening access to African museums, training of curators and restorers of works of art, and facilitating the circulation and dialogue of museums to museums. In order to draw the outline, we could combine all the forces of our Assembly around a parliamentary mission, those of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and those of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education in particular. In this regard, I welcome the creation of an inter-ministerial unit comprising the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Higher Education and Research and the Quai d'Orsay, which will guarantee a scientific and cultural approach whose inter-ministerial character will enable it to encompass all aspects of the issue. On the contrary, the Group of the Party of Democratic and Related Democrats, in a joint joint committee, opposed the creation of an advisory council on the return of works, as proposed by the Senate, and of course reiterates its position today. In conclusion, our hope is that this bill will be an opportunity to set the stage for a new vision of French politics for Africa through culture, leading us to go beyond the mere notion of restitution to found a sincere and equitable partnership policy, built on mutual trust with African states and museums. This new and partnership vision will allow Africans to re-approve their history, the glory and the genius of their ancestors. And that is the will expressed by the President of the Republic in Burkina-Faso in 2017 and the primary intention of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and several benches of the LaREM group]] The initiative we are voting on today is therefore decisive in many respects, but cannot remain in the draft stage. That is why we call for its full dimension to be quickly given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u53	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u54	No one has welcomed the presence of the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u55	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u56	I believe that the political path taken by this bill, which provides for the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal, surprised more than one observer, because what was originally meant to be only a consensus discussion on a commonly shared objective suddenly turned to confrontation on how to achieve it. More than a matter of form, the disagreement in the CMP over the creation of the National Council for Reflection on the Movement and Return of Extra-European Cultural Property is indicative of the ways in which the restitution of these goods can be conceived, a practice which is known to be increasing in scale in the years to come. This development is happy and I would like to recall here that my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and I have for many years considered that the return of the goods looted in the colonised countries or in the context of a war is of the greatest historical importance: by doing so, our country contributes to the memorial and diplomatic peace, repairs terrible injustices felt inside and outside our borders and offers an opportunity to renew the Franco-African dialogue, and more broadly with all the States resulting from decolonization. It is a matter of building a common project that would be organized around culture and the reconstruction of a defeated heritage. Léopold Sédar Senghor rightly said that "without the development of the mind, we are nothing", and saw in a common cultural project "a quest [...] that honors humanity". Also, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left can only endorse the intentions of this bill, which honour humanity. However, the return of goods must not take place under any conditions. First of all, by virtue of the universal character of the works concerned, in the sense that Aimé Césaire spoke of "a universal rich of all the individual, of all the individuals", we want them to be well preserved, in museums, outside the reign of money, outside of bargaining. This requires ensuring proper cooperation with the States involved in the restitution process. Secondly, we consider that this healthy movement of return of cultural goods must be accompanied by a far-reaching struggle against international trafficking in works of art. Otherwise, all the actions of our country, however virtuous they may be, will prove to be useless. Finally, and I come here to the sensitive point of the discussion, we believe that the restitution of cultural property cannot be subject to the Prince's mere fact. This is, alas, what is happening here, this bill being no other than the legal dressing of the wishes expressed by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou in November 2017. Aggravation on the form, since Parliament is, once again, relegated to the rank of registration chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u58	... this practice is particularly harmful in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u59	And it's permanent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u60	How can we protect the legal principle of the inalienability of public collections when restitution is subject to a unilateral decision? It is to this question that the Senate, unanimously, tried to answer by setting up a national council to reflect on the movement and return of cultural goods outside Europe. We support this Senate initiative...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u61	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u62	... which should allow for an adversarial, transparent and public debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u63	But this debate is taking place here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u64	... thus guaranteeing the historical distancing indispensable for future restitution projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u65	And democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u66	It is through the construction of this council that vertical practices such as the loan of the crown of Queen Ranavalona III's dais to Antananarivo, which took place only a few hours after the vote in the Senate, will be curbed, without Parliament ever being informed of this decision. At a time when some colleagues regret that the parliamentary system is being misled by the executive branch, we regret that they are being attacked by the establishment of a national council to inform their expertise. However, the urgency is real, Parliament can no longer be confronted with the fait accompli on such sensitive issues. This national council must therefore be defended for what it is intended to become, that is, an indispensable tool for dealing with an international movement that is growing in scale. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] That is why, after expressing its support for this text at first reading in the name of the great importance that we attach to this historic repair movement, my colleagues would like to do the same in a new reading. Let us hope that the majority will agree to re-establish Article 3 introduced by the Senate – but if this were not the case, this would obviously not be a hindrance to the support of the GDR Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u68	Rest assured? But that will not prevent us from saying what we think!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u69	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u70	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u71	The President of the Republic announced three years ago, during his speech at the University of Ouagadougou, that he would want to return, temporarily or definitively, African works of art from French public collections to the countries from which these works came. France holds nearly 90,000 African works of art in its public collections, two thirds of which are in the Quai Branly Museum. It was therefore entrusted to two researchers, Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy, to produce a report on the restitution of African heritage. This report is a real plea in favour of a massive restitution, in the name of political repentance, of the African heritage present in French public collections. It targets works acquired in the absence of consent from local populations, by violence or trickery, or under iniquitous conditions; It also recommends the return of documents seized during military conquests or collected during scientific missions or by agents of the colonial administration, as well as the return of works derived from illegal trafficking after 1960. The submission of the report to the President of the Republic on 23 November 2018 was an opportunity for the President to announce the return of twenty-six items from the Béhanzin Palace and currently held at the Quai Branly Museum. This bill embodies this strong commitment of the President of the Republic by providing for their return to Benin, their land of origin, as well as the return to Senegal of a sword and its sheath that would have belonged to El Hadj Omar Tall, head of the country. Indeed, these works have a strong symbolic significance. Taken to France during colonial expansion as objects of exotic curiosity, they had, for the most part, a spiritual function. As witnesses to a prosperous past, they help to give pride and self - confidence to people who are too often stripped of their history. Let's be clear: this bill does not end the inalienable nature of our public collections. It simply materializes the common desire to appease conflicts of memory, a wish which France continues to express, as when it recently restored the crown of the dais of Malagasy queen Ranavalona III in Madagascar, pending the passage of the law which will allow to derogate from the inalienable and inaccessible character of national collections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u72	The Prince's fact! It's not called otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u73	This is not the other way round, my colleague, but it is important to be able to make that clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u74	Only Mrs Kuric has the floor. Go on, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u75	During the restitution of works, the risks associated with poor conservation conditions are very real, as are the risks of theft and embezzlement in societies marked by strong corruption and low involvement of public authorities in heritage policies. Let's not deny it. The strengthening of Franco-Beninian cultural cooperation in museum cooperation, the training of museum curators, the exchange of experts and a joint work programme are all reasons which guarantee the preservation and presentation to the public of these goods under the best possible conditions. Thus the symbolic dimension of memorial repair and heritage re-appropriation of these restitutions – not to mention their economic dimension of tourist attraction – is undeniable. It seems legitimate to promote access to the historical and cultural heritage of African youth, a source of inspiration for the creation and understanding of its cultural heritage. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this new bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u76	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u77	It is clear that France cannot oppose the right of each country to trace its history and to know what constitutes its culture. The IDU and independent group therefore welcomes the fact that, in the framework of diplomatic partnerships with Benin and Senegal, France participates, through these refunds, in the development of access to culture – to their culture. It is an act of friendship and trust towards countries with which we share a long history and many projects. I would just like to stress the importance of diplomatic cooperation and of the good relations we have with the countries concerned, and to go back to what you have said in committee, Mr rapporteur. It is important that scientific studies be devoted to the goods that are part of the national collections in order to know their importance, origin and history. However, this information should not be the only information to be taken into account when deciding on the potential return of property. It is Parliament's role to examine restitution decisions by examining the established scientific framework and also the conditions for the restitution and conservation of the property concerned. If scientists are there to inform decisions, it must always be up to Parliament to decide. We are committed to the universalist tradition of our country, which guarantees good preservation of works, allowing dialogue with all cultures. It is thanks to this French will that we can now render works in good condition of conservation, and we are pleased that, on this point, important guarantees have been provided by the Republic of Benin as well as by the Republic of Senegal. Similarly, we are committed to the fact that these countries have made very specific requests. The text recalls the importance of the inalienability of French collections, which allows me to stress once again the need to continue to have these refunds examined on a case-by-case basis by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u79	If recourse to external advice could, as the Senate wanted, have been developed, we must remain vigilant that a form of case law on such restitution does not arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u80	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u81	This criticism may, however, apply in the same way to the establishment of an exceptional law or a framework law that would set out the general principles for the handing over of works. We are therefore not in favour of such a law, mentioned in this Chamber at the time of the first reading of the text, especially since, I repeat, the factors to be taken into account in these operations are many.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u83	Finally, the parliamentarians we are can, and even must, be associated with the cultural diplomacy of our country. Many of us are interested in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u84	All right, Mrs. Descamps!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u85	I understand the discontent of some of our honourable senators when they learned that a crown had been loaned to Madagascar at the same time as they were reviewing this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u86	What a provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u87	... especially since this crown was the subject of a long-standing claim for restitution. While it is understandable that cultural objects are part of our diplomatic work, Parliament must not be left out of decisions concerning national collections. Despite these few remarks and clarifications, the IDU and independent group will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Descamps!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u89	All right, Mrs. Descamps, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u90	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u91	[[Applause on all benches]] As I return to the National Assembly, after sixty-eight difficult days, I would like to express my thanks to all colleagues and to all those here and elsewhere who have sent me messages of encouragement. In this trying time, each of them was a little moment of happiness. Who could have known, when this House adopted this text two months ago, that we would meet for a new reading, so much the consensus on the question of the restitution of cultural property in Benin and Senegal seemed complete? In fact, it has not been undermined since both the upper and lower houses have voted favourably, and unanimously, on the first two articles of this bill. Minister, we are here today because of a clear lack of transparency. How can we not understand the position of the Senate, which rightly expressed the unpleasant and recurring sensation that we parliamentarians have of being confronted with the fait accompli? Indeed, as our fellow senators were examining this text, on November 5, we learned of the handing over of the crown to Malagasy authorities over Queen Ranavalona III's dais, without the Government informing Parliament. Of course, this is a long-standing request, it is neither surprising nor illegitimate in itself, and it is only a deposit, pending a legislative procedure on which we will have to decide, as we do today, to validate the transfer of ownership. No one disputes the purpose of the procedure: it is the method that is at issue. This fact of the Prince further lowers our Parliament, which will again be obliged to validate a posteriori the international commitments made by the President. That is regrettable. That said, let us return to the subject we are dealing with today: on the one hand, the restitution to Benin of twenty-six works, on the other hand, the restitution to Senegal of the sword attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall and of its sheath. The Liberties and Territories Group reiterates its willingness to see this long process succeed. The disagreement we have over the form should not prevent us from honouring this commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u92	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u93	The same applies to Article 3, adopted by the Senate, which led to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. Our group has no particular objection to the creation of a national council for reflection on the movement and return of non-European cultural goods. Such a framework could be relevant, especially since the abolition of the National Scientific Commission on Collections by the ASAP Act. But such a council should not lead to slowing down processes or degrade the bilateral relations that are built and enriched around these projects. Therefore, the deletion of this article will not result in our opposition to the text. On the other hand, the creation of an inter-ministerial unit on this issue is far from satisfactory in terms of transparency and independence. Finally, what matters to us is traffic and transmission. That is why we do not oppose, as some have done, diplomacy and heritage. Access to heritage must be universal and cannot be restricted to purely political and diplomatic use. On the other hand, the heritage must be able to circulate within the framework of renewed bilateral relations. Indeed, the restitution of these cultural assets is an opportunity to build stronger relations between our countries, to participate in the narrative and transmission of human history beyond our borders and to restore the right of African youth to heritage. By agreeing to return works, it is not a question of denying the past or dispossessing oneself: on the contrary, one looks at the past in front of one another. That is why our commission was right to re-establish the original title of the bill, keeping the word "restitution." It is symbolically important to use this word which, contrary to what has been said in the Senate, does not imply repentance but that of recognition, which implies accepting that the captures and heritage annexations have indeed been part of the colonial system. The investigative and expert work carried out by our museums has largely enabled us to determine that certain cultural objects in our national collections have indeed been misunderstood. They are undeniably linked to the warrior and colonial past of France. It is a step forward in our relations with the countries concerned to recognize this. [[Mr Pascal Bois applauds]] For all these reasons, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote for the text adopted by our committee on a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u94	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u95	This afternoon I will make myself the voice of my colleague Michèle Victory, the rarity of the trains coming from his election land in Ardèche, which did not allow him to arrive in time in the Chamber – within a few minutes. This draft restitution, despite the unanimity which emerged at the first reading, still raises a few questions, as we have noted in committee. Some differences were expressed by different groups regarding the legislative vehicle chosen to respond to the request for restitution from Benin and Senegal. However, and as we have already pointed out, the members of the Socialist and Related Group agree with the original purpose of the bill and support the return of these works. The text adopted unanimously and discussed in the CMP has therefore been amended to include the creation of a national think tank on these issues. And even if this new provision has been deleted in committee, we consider that not all criticisms of the form of such refunds are unfounded. Decisions to return works of art, whether or not their provenance can be legitimately justified, are a diplomatic tool for our heads of State that seems to escape democratic debate and regularly serve questionable strategies. This decision, like other decisions taken at other times, raises the question of the meaning of these exceptional laws, with regard to important issues that may develop in the light of legitimate demands that will not fail to be made. It is therefore the case-by-case method which can be challenged and which, beyond the symbolic aspect of this restitution, deprives us of a more scientific approach, more extensive, capable of taking into account, with the expertise of all the actors concerned, the complexity of these decisions. The demand for full transparency, reiterated by many of us, can only lead us to be in favour of setting up a forum that would come through its plurality and its expertise nourish the necessary debate. In such a national council, the stakes of present and future restitutions, linked in particular to their context, could thus be explored carefully. The Ministry of Culture would occupy its rightful place. Indeed, if the case before us today is relatively consensual, we can imagine that the way in which restitution issues will be dealt with will weigh in future in our bilateral relations, because the traces left by colonization cannot completely disappear from such a debate. The need for an informed and comprehensive reflection on the journeys of these objects through the history of our countries deserves more dialogue. We do not want to see this gesture as an act of moral repentance. Restitution is not a guarantee of reparation but a constructive response to asserting the will to calm memorial conflicts. The recognition of this strong desire for re-appropriation by the populations concerned of fragments of their identity, of a history where the diaspora of objects and people has intertwined, makes consensus on our benches. It is this promise of shared trust that we are defending here through this text. Let's talk about semantics, why not: words make sense. However, we do not share the extreme lexical prudence of senators who preferred the word "return" to the word "restitution", which implies an unconscionable appropriation of wealth. We do not want the very idea of restitution to be called into question by means of formal arguments. The demands to which the text responds are legitimate and the complexity of the conditions under which the objects concerned have left their native territory to enrich our collections should not serve as an alibi to another complexity, that governing the construction of principles that have forged the national history of our collections, enriched our museum expertise and contributed to nourishing a vast economy of the art market. As Emmanuel Pierrat suggests by urging us to overcome the sterile opposition between the concept of universal culture – which would justify the status quo – and that of national culture – all too often synonymous with narrow patriotism – there is a way between the two postures to promote the circulation of works and to overcome complex realities where all kinds of obstacles and historical, political, financial, legal and moral analyses are expressed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] The temptation not to be able to imagine these objects outside the frame of the musée du quai Branly is great, but the demand for support, sharing and accompaniment that is established should participate – without excessive naivety – in a new ethic of exchange. That is why the Socialist and related groups will again vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u96	The general discussion is closed. The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u97	I would like to pay tribute here to the excellent work of rapporteur Yannick Kerlogot. To hear some words, we might think that we have not worked enough, that we have not been sufficiently enlightened. However, the long-term work that has been done in the House – and I would like to point out the many hearings conducted by the rapporteur – means that in the Senate we now have two reports on a subject which, until now, has been the subject of only a few analyses. Let us take the chronology: Benin's request for restitution dates back to 2016; In order to inform the public debate, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, appointed Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy; They submitted their reports to the Commission in 2018. We can take all the distances we want – and that is what has been done – with this report, but the debate took place, in depth, during the weeks preceding the examination of the text in committee and then in the Chamber, here and in the Senate. I wanted to remind him. In essence, we all want this text; The best proof is that, at first reading, we unanimously voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, you have announced your intention to abstain; Beyond the remarks heard here or there, know, in all sincerity, that we can gather on this subject which is not only Franco-French but which is closely followed by the African partners of France. You felt it in the rapporteur's remarks and that is why I wanted to speak: beyond disagreements over the establishment of a national commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u100	A tip isn't the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u101	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... beyond all the arguments, and yours can be agreed, the text we are discussing will certainly be worth the story – and the vote just now will be historic – but also for the future. I therefore hope that we can all come together in a few minutes to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u102	If you really want to, then vote on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u103	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u104	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u105	I take this unhoped-for opportunity to reopen the debate: Madam Minister, beyond the idea of restitution, to which I wholeheartedly subscribe, we should, as Bruno Fuchs invited us earlier on on behalf of MODEM, speak of cultural exchanges. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The authors of certain immaterial works, born in Africa and with whom we share the same native language, struggle to be entrusted with chairs of literature or philosophy in France. I am thinking of the poet Alain Mabanckou, the philosopher Achille Mbembe or the novelists Léonora Miano and Scholastice Mukasonga: we must offer them chairs of literature, and the possibility of enlightening our fellow citizens with their black ink.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u106	This article has been deleted by the committee. I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4, which aim to restore it. These amendments are the subject of a request for a public vote by the Republican Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u107	The aim is to restore Article 3, introduced by the Senate in order to create a national council for reflection on the movement and return of cultural goods outside Europe. Its composition would be tightened, and that is all its interest, since it would bring together up to a dozen people with specific skills. This multidisciplinary council would bring together conservatives, historians, art historians, ethnologists and jurists. Its mission would be to give a simple opinion on requests for restitution submitted by foreign States, apart from those submitted under the 1970 UNESCO Convention – United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – on the measures to be taken to prohibit and prevent the illicit import, export and transfer of ownership of cultural property. It would do so before the French authorities had provided an answer, in order to inform the public authorities in their decision-making. The council could therefore intervene from the beginning of the restitution application process, avoiding the fact of the prince. While derogating from the principle of the inalienability of public goods falls within the sole competence of the legislator, the lending of works, as we have seen recently, becomes a currency of exchange in the diplomatic actions of the executive, thus putting the legislator before the fait accompli, which is very unpleasant. Hence the need for an independent, specialized and impartial body upstream. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] No, minister, the council would not duplicate the museums and the remarkable work they do. You also suggest the creation of an interdepartmental unit, so you agree on the existence of a need in restitution processes. But an interministerial unit would only be a half measure and would not be a guarantee of independence, when the national council would provide a method, guarantees and, above all, secure procedures for the restitution of cultural property.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u108	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 2 by Mrs Elsa Faucillon is being defended. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u109	I would also like to try to reintroduce clause 3 as voted by the Senate. In line with the work of the High Assembly, we wish to propose to the Assembly the creation, through the National Reflection Council, of a permanent body that would survive governments, changes of ministers or directors of central administration, renewals of parliamentary assemblies. The council would thus be a long-term one in order to carry out thorough, serene, continuous and informed work. Its findings would be regularly made public for greater transparency and sharing with all components of public opinion. Politics – both the Government and the National Assembly or the Senate – would benefit from the advice and insights of such a national council, which would, in a way, be a tool to assist decision-making and, above all, reflection. Many speakers paid tribute to the work of heritage experts. In order to mobilize experts, a framework, methodology and procedures were needed: that was the answer to the creation of the National Council. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is a proposal put forward by the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Mrs Catherine Morin-Desailly – who has long chaired the Committee on Culture – and which was adopted by all the political families of the High Assembly, who all gathered in the creation of this instrument. In response to President Studer's wishes to come together, to come together, try to work together to create such a body.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u111	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u112	It is my turn to try to convince you to re-establish Article 3, excellently written by our honourable senators in order to create a national council of reflection on the movement and return of non-European cultural goods. It is a narrow advice, bringing together scientific expertise – conservatives, historians, art historians, ethnologists, jurists – in order to shed light on his impartial and independent opinion of the executive power on the decisions that the legislator must take on restitutions – I prefer to use the word "return", less marked by repentance. Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government can, and must, have a will to do so, but it is up to parliamentarians alone to decide, on a case-by-case basis, on exceptions to the principle of the inalienability of public collections, and therefore on the merits of the restitution of works of art that would have been poorly acquired. More than ever, Parliament needs such a multi-disciplinary and politically neutral advisory body to avoid the Prince's act. In no way should the return of certain works of art become a systematic currency of exchange in the diplomatic actions of the executive. We do not question the need or willingness to return cultural property to Senegal and Benin, but the rapporteur himself admitted that you needed an inter-ministerial unit to help and advise you; So why not accept a council that is completely independent of the executive branch?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u114	I listened carefully to all the arguments with which this request for the reintroduction of Article 3 establishing a national council for reflection on the movement and restitution of extra-European cultural goods is put on the table, despite the quality exchanges we had in the CMP and in committee last week. I turn to this notion, which comes back very regularly from the "fact of the prince". By referring to it, you systematically refer to the Malagasy file, on which I really ask you to inquire, in order to overcome the clumsy combination of circumstances that occurred. The first fruits of this dossier date back to 2005, under Jacques Chirac. Since the Royal Precinct of the Rova was destroyed in 1995, it took more than twenty-five years to be able, with Malagasy funding, to reconstruct it. But as early as 2005, the request for the object you have very well described is on the table. So it is not, if I may say so, a fact of the recent prince. Beyond that, Ambassador Christophe Bouchard recalled, if this loan agreement has been implemented recently, it is in the context of an event, the sixty years of independence of the Malagasy State, at a time when the new Rova Palace was also being inaugurated. We are therefore in a logical follow-up, with France's willingness to respond, it seems to me, to a strong symbolic demand expressed by the Malagasy authorities. I refer you to the news of that year: look how the Malagasy population welcomed this so-called crown of Queen Ranavalona III! As far as the national council is concerned, I feel that the reasons put forward by the various Members do not go in the same direction. For some, the request is to ensure on a case-by-case basis that the object is re-enactable, that it has been misunderstood, even though a process has already been initiated by departments and curators and museum experts. In this context, be careful not to underestimate the work of Parliament and the Assembly! Our committees are working, they are conducting hearings. I do not see how a select committee of twelve members could give a different and enriched opinion when all the dedicated and legitimate experts, namely the curators of museums concerned with the objects of public collections, have been asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u115	It's not very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u116	Yes! Speaking earlier as an interdepartmental unit, I gave a name to what already exists, the collaboration between different ministries, and to the scientific and historical decline that we must act upon. Finally, the impact assessment is public, accessible, and shows the whole process undertaken by the various ministries and the Conservatives and experts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Colleagues, I really invite you to vote on this bill, or to abstain. I repeat Gabriel Serville's beautiful expression earlier: this bill honours humanity. That is the conclusion I want to conclude on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u118	I think it is useful to ask myself very frankly what could be done by a national council of reflection on the circulation and return of extra-Western works of art. How could such advice prevent a breach of the principle of inalienability? Nothing. Legally, a loan is a government act, such as the decision of the Ministry of Armed Forces, the owner of the Malagasy queen's crown, to make the loan. Under no circumstances would such advice be involved in a loan procedure; he is not qualified to intervene in this procedure. How could it feed the legislative procedure for restitution? Nothing and I'll come back. It is, at this level and level of protection that you hope, totally useless. How would this advice improve the scientific and cultural approach? Nothing. I note that no one has challenged, in the absence of this council, the completeness and quality of the scientific work carried out on all these subjects. It is therefore totally useless. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] How would this advice improve the legal approach to the restitution process? Nothing. All of us here welcomed the remarkable work done by Yannick Kerlogot and all members of the House of Commons and senators on this subject. It is an unnecessary advice in terms of protecting the inalienable, scientifically unnecessary and legally unnecessary character. I therefore ask that we not vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u119	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u120	Madam Minister, on our Republican benches, we obviously have no objection to returning certain cultural objects to their countries of origin, but this can only be done in the context of cultural cooperation with these countries. These agreements must guarantee the safety and preservation of works in the best conditions. I am therefore pleased that the amendments which we have tabled, which provide that this return to Benin and Senegal, or elsewhere, is by way of derogation from the principle of inalienability, have been adopted at first reading. This precaution maintains the exceptional character of this agreement and closes the door to automatic returns of parts of our national collections. However, if this addition is beneficial, it is necessary to anticipate and create the reflexive framework for the future. That was precisely the meaning of Article 3 introduced by the Senate. The creation of a national council for reflection on the movement and return of cultural goods outside Europe would indeed make it possible to take decisions in a much more informed way, and independent of the executive. For the question is: what policy of cultural cooperation do we want? Our assembly must ask itself the question of long time; that is the meaning of creating a forward-looking council. It is also the best way to avoid – this has been recalled by my colleagues – the fact of the prince and the return of political alternations. We are not immune to drifts in the return of cultural works and museum property. It is therefore up to us here in Parliament to provide for the guarantee of the imprescriptibility, the inadmissibility and the inalienability of national collections. Clause 3 is an opportunity to do so on a sustainable basis, and the Senate, in its great wisdom, the minister, has understood that. Your political family voted: should this not lead you to question yourself? [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] In any case, there is a clear mistake between those who sit on the benches of the Senate and those who sit here in the National Assembly. That should be an issue for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u121	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u122	In the amendments you propose, the members of this council are appointed by the Government: then for independence, forgiveness...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u123	[[Smile]] You therefore admit that not all those appointed by the Government are independent! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u124	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u125	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 13 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u126	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u127	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u128	Let me once again share with you the position of the La République Group on the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal, adopted unanimously at first reading in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for opinion, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, and then in the sitting in this House. We examined it today in a version enriched by the Senate. If the original articles come back to us in their quintessence, with the adoption of a semantic amendment by the rapporteur in the Senate without amendment, the Assembly's Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education took the time to reflect on an additional article. The purpose of this article was to establish a national council for reflection on the movement and return of non-European cultural goods, a sort of ersatz from the national scientific commission of collections abolished by the draft law on the acceleration and simplification of public action. Why want to revive this flame even though the CMP was conclusive? Why add an extra layer to our famous administrative millefeuille as we move towards easing administrative arrangements? It would be an umpteenth advice, costly and time-consuming, giving an umpteenth opinion – especially since the semantic shift from restitution to traffic and vice versa is ancient and its limits controlled, still bear witness to the exchanges I had recently with the cultural adviser of the French ambassador in Dakar. Why this redundancy while guarantees and methods are ensured by professionals trained to decide on the origin, meaning and life of these objects? Historians and scientists are mobilized, museums are mobilized, and we parliamentarians are also mobilized. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the Dem group]] This bill is both cultural cooperation and our influential diplomacy reaffirmed, to respond to the enthusiasm of African youth for collective memory and universal heritage. For all these reasons, the La République group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u129	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u130	In the straight line of Emmanuelle Anthoine, I would like to reiterate that the Group of the European People's Party has addressed all of our debates, from the very beginning of our committee's work before the first reading in this House, with a great deal of enthusiasm and a strong interest in these matters. We do not forget that the dialogue of cultures is the mantra, the leitmotiv, the slogan in a way, of the very great museum of the quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, and far from our political family the idea of disregarding or considering as dangerous any idea of working to strengthen dialogue between cultures through these policies of return, restitution and sustainable cultural, scientific and museum cooperation, legitimately in line with the aspirations of a number of partner countries at the moment. After having succeeded in having two amendments to Articles 1 and 2, the Members of the Group of the European People's Party adopted The Republicans had mostly chosen to vote in favour of the text at first reading. However, it was the first reading: as you know, we are very committed to bicameralism and we knew that the Senate would work hard on this bill and propose amendments. That is why we regret, as we look at the text on a new reading, that the two houses have failed to converge and that the excellent text of the Senate has not received the support of the Assembly. The proposal to create a national council for reflection on the movement and return of cultural goods from outside Europe has been the subject of numerous and acerbic criticisms, which have fallen drudging. However, it does not seem redundant or unnecessary to us. This new council was compared to the national scientific commission of collections, which has now disappeared: but everyone knows well that the various ministers of culture have tried to deprive it of any means of functioning! It is therefore very logical that it was abolished after some time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We hoped that our amendments to create the National Reflection Council on the Movement and Return of Extra-European Cultural Property, a proposal which we felt was very fruitful, would be considered in a more constructive spirit. This council would have informed the way forward and policies for the return of cultural property. Because this was not the case, the Republican Group will abstain in the vote for the most part.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u131	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u132	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u133	The Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will of course vote in favour of the bill, which, as we have already pointed out, is an important first step in the restoration of works of art and is opening a new era in relations between France and the countries of the African continent. With regard to section 3, which several of our colleagues wanted to be reintroduced, I would like to point out that this bill concerns the restitution of works of art in Benin and Senegal. However, the national council for reflection on the movement and return of extra-European cultural goods, created by this article, would have to decide on future works of art. In our view, therefore, it has no place in the text we are considering today. However, the reflection initiated by our colleagues remains relevant. The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party goes even further as it calls for a framework law in order to initiate a new dynamic in the field of the restitution of cultural property. We will vote in favour of the bill because, as Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has explained, we want to create with the African countries a new dynamic partnership that goes beyond mere restitution and integrates all cultural property in the context of a relationship of equal value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u134	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u135	I apologize for not being able to attend the general debate, and I thank my colleague Régis Juanico for speaking in my place. I'm sure he did it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u136	[[Smile]] He did it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u137	Almost as good as you would have done yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u138	I will not go back to our colleagues' proposal to set up a national council to reflect on the movement and return of non-European cultural goods, although in the future we will have to think about how to organise the return of cultural goods. I would simply point out that as the bill's enforcement rapporteur, I will be attentive to how its provisions, which are important, will be implemented and translated into practice. In a nutshell, I will be watching how cultural property will be returned, in accordance with the Two Hands project in Benin, a beautiful initiative that allows us to reach out to this country and to build new, strong and trustworthy bonds. These ties, I believe, must not be called into question. The Socialist and related group therefore considers it important to retain the term "restitution": it is part of a historical context of which it is difficult to abstract completely. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Marion Lenne also applauds]] As at first reading, it is with strong conviction that we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u139	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u140	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text, as at first reading. I fully agree with the rapporteur: our mere presence here today demonstrates that there is no fact of the Prince.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u141	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u142	There was neither in 2005 nor under the current presidency. I hope that the Assembly will also have before it the question of the restitution of the crown of the royal dais of the Malagasy queen Ranavalona III. For now it's a loan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u144	... which we have been discussing with the Malagasy authorities since last July. So there was no prince in it. Parliament will continue to play its role in the work and hearings carried out by several committees – in this case the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which have worked together on the subject, in close connection with the Minister. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let us continue this necessary parliamentary work and support the process of restitution of cultural property, indispensable to preserve the memory of the common history of France and Africa and to build with it a shared and serene future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u145	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u146	There is no ambiguity in the position of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left: we recognize that the National Assembly, through the discussion and the vote on this bill, is doing a useful job and is part of a very laudable approach, which will certainly be looked at with interest at the international level. In the general discussion, I indicated that the refusal of the Government and the majority to re-introduce section 3 into the text was not a win-win element for our group, which will nevertheless vote in favour of the bill. However, with the creation of the National Council for Reflection on the circulation and return of extra-Western works of art, we would like to strengthen the criteria for the transparency of future projects for the transfer and restitution of cultural property, as well as the accompanying work for the future. With the creation of this body, it was also a matter of better enlightening Parliament by allowing it to rely on experts, which in no way called into question the quality of the work it provides. Most regrettably, the minister felt that this council would be useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u147	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u148	This term cannot be used until such time as this counsel has been subjected to the test of fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u149	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u150	The Government and the majority are prejudging this body's ability to serve our nation usefully, which I find very unfortunate. However, we favour substance and remain in the long term. We are only partially satisfied, but this bill, although amputated with clause 3, honours, as the rapporteur pointed out, humanity. Yes, he honors our humanity. He's very much expected on a planet-wide basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u151	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u152	Vote it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u153	Today we are taking a big step by adopting it. That is why, as at first reading, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u155	Finally, I mean that we are committed to the independence of certain parliamentary committees in which we have placed our full trust. However, this confidence is largely weakened today after the words of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u156	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u157	[[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] I say it with a little smile under my mask, Madam Minister, but you have made things clear and we heard them well: we would like to thank you for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u158	Mr Kokouendo, I cannot give you the floor, because the Group of the European People's Party has already spoken. Think I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u159	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u160	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 64 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u161	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u162	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u163	The next item is the discussion of the draft law enabling the Government to take the necessary measures in the field of law to ensure the conformity of domestic law with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code and to enhance the effectiveness of the fight against doping (No. 2700, 3593).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u164	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u165	Since I joined the Ministry of Sports more than two years ago, I have placed ethics at the heart of my priorities. I believe that this ministry must be primarily involved in public policies related to the protection of practitioners, whether it is high-level or amateur sport. Since the creation of the National Sport Agency – ANS – responsible for high performance and practice development, I have heard concerns about the role of the Ministry of Sport. It focuses more than ever on its regal prerogatives, around the promotion of integrity, the ethics of sports organisations and its educational role. In these times troubled by the health crisis, where we find that sport and more generally physical exercise are necessary for us to live better, it is essential to recall the fundamental role of sport for health, for social cohesion and for the defence of its own values. Doping and doping and addictive behaviour are a scourge, because they threaten the integrity of our sports competitions as well as the health of our professional and amateur athletes. They distort performance, penalize clean athletes and fundamentally attack the spirit of loyalty and fairness, which is the essence of sport competitions. I am also pursuing a proactive and effective anti-doping and anti-doping policy with my ministry. We make every effort to make athletes and their loved ones aware of the dangers of doping; we accompany the prevention campaigns of the federations and institutions of the ministry; and we invest the financial resources necessary for this struggle. In 2021, France's annual contribution to the operation of the World Anti-Doping Agency – AMA – will amount to just over 1 million euros. For the year 2020, I have just signed a complementary contribution of €50000 in response to the request of WADA President Witold Banka to better accompany scientific research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u166	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u167	In addition, the allocation allocated by the State for 2021 to the French Anti-Doping Agency – AFLD – will increase by €850,000 compared to 2020, amounting to almost €11 million, to allow for additional recruitment, as well as an increase in the number of checks. It is therefore almost 12 million euros that our Government will invest in 2021 for anti-doping operators. This illustrates our ambition in this area, linked to the hosting by Paris of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. We will certainly retain a rich material legacy of these Games, but they will also be a formidable lever that can leave a lasting intangible legacy for our country and our fellow citizens. The hosting of this global event must offer us the opportunity to change the place of sport in our society and to include it in the daily lives of all: the Games must be the central vehicle for a clean, fair and dignified sporting practice. I am firmly convinced that sport is a privileged space for learning about citizenship, tolerance and the rules that allow us to live together, to become a society and to become a nation. In the face of the burning news of recent months, all players in sport must renew their commitment to combat the abuses that attack our common good, whether it be doping or violence, any form of discrimination or violations of the principles of our republican pact. An effective policy for the prevention of doping is the responsibility of all: sportsmen, the Ministry responsible for sports, federations, AFLD, the medical profession, the media, but also the entire public of the sport show. The effectiveness of this policy depends on the concrete actions that we are taking. I am thinking in particular of the national plan for the prevention of doping and doping behaviour for the period 2020-2024, aimed at sports federations; I know the determination of the federations and the athletes, committed to me, to carry it out. I am also thinking of funding a new, more efficient and independent testing laboratory, which will integrate the Faculty of Pharmacy at the University of Paris-Saclay by 2023. Finally, I am thinking of the subject that brings us together today: the transposition of the new provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code into French law. Because of the private nature of WADA, this code does not have direct binding force on States. It is therefore in accordance with the International Convention against Doping in Sport, adopted in 2005 under the auspices of UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – and ratified by France in 2007, that we must adopt the necessary measures to bring our law into line with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code. The new version of this code, adopted in November 2019 in Poland, comes into force on 1 January 2021; That is why I tabled a bill in the National Assembly on February 19. Unfortunately, he had so far not been able to fit into Parliament's agenda because of the emergencies related to the crisis of the Covid-19. As transposition has become very urgent, I have been led to call for the accelerated procedure on this text. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked the WADA calendar and our legislative timetable to allow for the first time for a substantive debate before parliamentary representation on the forthcoming legislative provisions of the sport code on doping. The symbol would have been significant, three years after the Olympic Games were hosted in France. Indeed, since 2010, transpositions have always been carried out by means of ordinances, with the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u168	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u169	This time, it is the constraints inherent in the deadlines, but also the risk of an infringement procedure that would penalize France on the international stage in the run-up to the Games, which lead me to ask you to again empower the Government to proceed by order. Mr rapporteur, I should like to welcome your work and the high quality of the report you have drawn up, as well as the debate that took place in committee, which sets out in detail the lines which will have to be those of the future order. The single article of this bill aims at enabling domestic law to be brought into line with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, as well as the definition of the new status of the anti-doping laboratory and the strengthening of the effectiveness of the anti-doping system, by facilitating the collection of information by AFLD and cooperation between the actors involved in the fight against doping. The effectiveness of this approach depends, of course, on the prerogatives and means entrusted to AFLD. The transposition order should strengthen its investigative powers, in accordance with the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code and WADA's international standards. The transposition aims in particular to introduce into French law a new category of substances, known as abuse, as well as a rapid admission procedure, since acceptance of the consequences may lead to a reduction in the duration of suspension. As you know, ensuring the conformity of our law with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code is an absolute necessity. We must be exemplary at the national level first, on behalf of the 36 million citizens you represent and who engage in occasional sporting activities, but also of the 16 million licensees in our country. We must also be international in order for France to remain a model in the fight against doping,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u170	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u171	...what it has been since the founding law of 1999 desired by Mrs Marie-George Buffet, then Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u172	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u173	I am honoured that it is you, Mrs Buffet, who are following the application of this text; I know you will do it with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u174	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Sports Directorate and all the officers of the Ministry, who are engaged daily in the service of our public policies and of a citizen and solidarity sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u176	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u177	Mr Bertrand Sorre, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u178	The bill we are considering this afternoon was passed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, unanimously by its members. This deliberation, acquired after constructive exchanges, demonstrates the commitment of our colleagues to the achievement of a shared objective on all our benches: that France can continue to stand out in the fight for a clean and ethical sport, through its initiatives on the international scene and also through its laws. Indeed, the enabling bill seeks to bring the French system into full compliance with the new standards of the global fight against doping. But the vote in the Committee on Cultural Affairs also commits us to make the difference between an objective necessity and the choice of ways and means to achieve this. I know that some of us regret that the Government chooses to use article 38 of the Constitution, rather than subject all the measures within their prerogatives to the deliberation of the assemblies. But recognize that in the field of anti-doping law, the use of prescriptions is not unusual: since 2010, it has been the preferred instrument for bringing French law into conformity after every revision of the global code. Moreover, there are circumstances in which the need for a new version of the World Anti-Doping Code, as well as the accompanying international standards, will come into force on 1 January 2021. Strictly speaking, the provisions of the Code do not in themselves have binding force that can be imposed on States, as they emanate from a private-law foundation, in this case WADA. However, they oblige us at least in two ways: firstly, because France ratified in 2007 the international convention against doping in sport; and above all the fact that the obligations and principles laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code are binding on national anti-doping organisations, sports federations and organisations responsible for major sporting events. However, the stipulations of the International Standard for Compliance with the WADA Signatory Code are unequivocal. The finding of an irregular situation could lead to three consequences: on the one hand, the ineligibility of the signatory's country to organize regional, continental and world championships or major events organised by sports organisations, for a defined period; on the other hand, the deprivation of the right to participate in or attend such events; Finally, the inability to participate or attend the next Olympic and Paralympic Games, as well as the following, until the signatory is reinstated. You have understood this: the participation of French athletes in international competitions, but also the organisation of the major upcoming competitions in the national territory. But you know that France will host the next Rugby World Cup in 2023, and of course the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. In addition, the standard for compliance with the Code of Signatories now provides for a procedure for non-compliance. It is true that this involves a first phase of adversarial dialogue lasting three months. But the risks of sanctions appear even less theoretical as the triggering of the various stages has some automaticity. It is therefore important for France to put itself in a position to give pledges as soon as possible. That is why I will defend an amendment that proposes to reduce the duration of the authorization provided for in the original bill from nine to six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u180	In practice, bringing French law into line with anti-doping standards is not self-evident within the framework of a particularly overburdened parliamentary calendar this year. Indeed, this task requires a degree of technicality, in view of the multiple implications of changes to the global code. I will not describe here all the changes made to the arrangements established by the Katowice Conference in Poland in November 2019. But we can note that the wording applicable from 1 January next marks a deepening of the principles and a certain sophistication of the procedures. For example, in terms of banned substances and products, the latest version of the global code is characterized, for the most part, by a certain stability of the qualifications for the specified methods, as well as for the prohibited substances and products. The real novation of the adopted system is the creation of a new category of substances: substances of abuse. In the definition of offences under the World Anti-Doping Code, the device applicable on 1 January 2021 includes reformulations and clarifications. This applies to the definition of falsification of any element of doping control by an athlete or another person. Similarly, the new wording of the global code revises the conditions necessary for the sanction of the prohibited association. Beyond that, I believe that everyone will be sensitive to the fact that the global code gives new protection to those who denounce a violation of anti-doping rules – I am talking about whistleblowers. Pressures or reprisals against them for this reason are now classified as offences. In the area of sanctions for alleged violations, it is true that the global code increases the penalties for certain acts such as complicity and the restoration of aggravating circumstances. In the end, the evolution of the sanctions regime shows a desire to take better account of circumstances and profiles. As proof of this, there are provisions that give offenders the opportunity to obtain what can be assimilated to reductions in sentences for certain offences: this is the case, on the one hand, for subtraction from anti-doping control, refusal to submit to it or falsification, and, on the other hand, for the penalties provided for the consumption of substances of abuse. A further illustration of this will is the pragmatic treatment of offences in the more significant place given to procedures which, to varying degrees, reduce the imposition of sanctions in return for cooperation of offenders or recognition of alleged offences. I am referring here to the extension of the scope of the substantial aid, to the reduction of the duration of the ban for early admission and acceptance of consequences, or to the establishment of the settlement agreements for the case. In the final instance, the global code pushes logic up to the establishment of relaxed sanctions regimes. In its drafting applicable from 2021 onwards, it provides for several temperaments to the regime of penalties for certain offences for the benefit of two new categories: protected persons, i.e. minors, and recreational athletes. In the area of anti-doping controls and the collection of information for this purpose, there are more notable inflections. Thus, the updated global code is marked by the affirmation of the principle of the necessary independence of laboratories with regard to any anti-doping organization, administratively and operationally. This requirement obliges us to establish the organic independence of the National Laboratory for Doping Testing – LNDD – from the AFLD. Be aware that this independence has already begun. Another significant inflection is the new capacity of national anti-doping organisations to collect information on the location of athletes who are not included in a target group. It should be noted that the scope of investigations by national anti-doping organisations should be extended to include athletes. The redrafting of the global code requires, in this case, investigations into the potential involvement of sports personnel or other persons in each case of doping. With regard to the coordination of anti-doping actors, the global code includes stipulations that reinforce the role and responsibilities of anti-doping organizations. In its new system, it requires any signatory to adopt rules obliging each of its member organisations and any other sports organisation within its competence to respect, apply, maintain and enforce the code. In principle, the scheme tends to strengthen the position of the AFLD vis-à-vis sports federations. Finally, the World Anti-Doping Code reaffirms the necessary independence of anti-doping organizations in their decisions and operational activities vis-à-vis the sports community and the Government. Clearly, the transposition of the World Anti-Doping Code has a wide range of consequences and obligations, but it is extremely numerous. Before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, I referred to the use of Article 38 of our Constitution as procedural dispatch, in accordance with the spirit of our institutions, but also reasonable. I wish to reiterate here that the objective of rapid transposition of the World Anti-Doping Code does not exempt Parliament from being very vigilant about the measures that the Government will take on the basis of authorization. It is in this spirit that I will present two amendments: the first is to refine the definition of the scope of the future order; the second reaffirms the necessary reconciliation between, on the one hand, the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Code and, on the other hand, the preservation of the constitutional and conventional principles prevailing in the national territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to endorse the position of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education by voting in favour of the adoption of this bill and, I hope, once again unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u181	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u182	Mrs Marie-George Buffet, implementing rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u183	First of all, I would like to express my relief that this bill is on the Orders of the Day. There was indeed an urgent need for France to comply with the World Anti-Doping Code and the International Standard. It must be legal in order to fulfil the commitments made before UNESCO, and morally, because our country, which will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games, must be irreproachable in this area. We could not run the risk of sanctions, even if we could bet on leniency, considering the particularly complicated year we have lived and its consequences on parliamentary work. The Government is proposing to legislate by ordinance. This is never satisfactory, but it is necessary in view of the deadlines. It is up to us, as parliamentarians, to pay particular attention to the content of this order, particularly when it is ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u185	This is therefore a very important first step today. I trust the French authorities, the Minister Delegate and the AFLD to make this order as relevant as possible in the light of the new standards adopted by WADA in 2019, but also in the light of the fundamental rights guaranteed in domestic and international law. The reform of the 2019 World Anti-Doping Code makes it possible to clarify the categories of substances, in particular through the introduction of abuse substances, taking better account of the specificity of these products in the sanctions regime. The new provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code thus tend to improve the proportionality of penalties and their individualization, thanks to a sometimes relaxed sanctions regime. This provides for relaxation for recreational sportsmen and minors who, I would remind you, are children and above all need protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u186	And prevention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u187	The new international standard for education will also have to be fully effective in our country, under the authority of AFLD and in connection with sports federations. The main focus of the anti-doping campaign is the education of athletes from an early age and the training of mentors. It's an indispensable part. I wonder, however, about the role of the Ministry of Sport in this area: what prerogatives will it retain since it is responsible for the respect of ethics in sport, as the Minister Delegate reaffirmed, while the AFLD will lead the programme? Of course, all this can only be set up within independent structures in an organic way. This is the whole issue of separating the NDSL from the AFLD. Here I express a certain form of relief after the too long series of the move and the location of the laboratory. It must be as efficient as possible because international standards have become very high, and its connection to the Orsay campus meets these requirements. Let's go to the protection of whistleblowers. It will be possible to punish individuals – athletes or mentors – who prevent anyone from reporting to the competent body the existence of an infringement of the anti-doping rules or national anti-doping law. That's a good thing. We are only too familiar with this gear in which sportsmen and sportsmen are embedded when their careers depend on the acceptance of a cheating system. Talking – or simply refusing bad practices – can mean the collapse of a career and years of sacrifice. Fighting against the omerta, protecting those who oppose cheating is the most elementary of duties. I take this opportunity to warmly greet the women and men who have had the courage to testify. Our guiding thread in the fight against doping is the protection of public health – the basic principle of the new global anti-doping code – and that of athletes. Protecting athletes is helping them escape the hell of doping, but it is also ensuring that their rights are respected. We ask them a lot, sometimes too much: to be localizable 24 hours a day; subjected to checks at times of extreme hours; always pay attention to the treatments they receive. In return, we must ensure that they have procedures scrupulously respecting the rights of the defence, proportionality of penalties when found guilty, and the right to be forgotten for some, especially young people. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups]] As implementing rapporteur, in conjunction with our excellent rapporteur, I support this enabling text and will follow the progress of the order and its implementation in order to ensure full respect for Parliament's will.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u188	In the general debate, Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u189	We are now considering the bill enabling the Government to take the necessary legislative measures to ensure that domestic law complies with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code and enhance the effectiveness of the fight against doping. This text, which is essential for bringing our legislation into line with the new World Anti-Doping Code, is being prepared under the auspices of WADA. France has always been committed to putting ethics at the centre of sports practice. For this reason, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the arrival of this text, to which we wholeheartedly support. The aim is to bring French law into line with WADA's international standards as soon as possible. To this end, the Act provides for the Government to legislate by order in order to adapt our legislation to the new principles of the World Anti-Doping Code and related international standards. In line with the replies he had given to our colleague Sophie Mette, the rapporteur tabled an amendment increasing the duration of the authorisation from nine to six months. We thank him for that. The vote on this text will allow us to be exemplary while our country will soon host several of the major international sporting events.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u190	And most of all, we're gonna win them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u191	By adopting this text, we reaffirm our deep commitment to the importance of ethics in sport. Remember that anti-doping rules are intrinsic to a healthy and fair sport practice. That is why it is necessary to constantly adjust our rules, in order to comply with the most demanding standards. Our group fully supports the will of international organizations and the Government to continuously adapt the norm to new uses of doping, in order to protect athletes and the integrity of sport. In this regard, we particularly welcome the possibility opened up by the reform of the global code to modulate sanctions; For example, the new Code provides for reduced penalties for recreational athletes or minors under 16 years of age. In addition, the publication is made optional for the latter. This measure, because it adapts more to the profile of the sanctioned athlete, will, I am sure, bring more justice and fairness to future proceedings. We are also pleased that the text places an important emphasis on prevention and education, because it is only by acting in the early years of sports practice that we will be able to limit or even eradicate these harmful practices, both for the health of athletes and for sport as a whole. Finally, the fight against doping must not lead to a weakening of the rights of athletes; We have issued an alert on this point in committee and we thank the rapporteur who reassured us that checks and tests would be carried out in accordance with our law. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u192	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u193	This bill, tabled last February, is being considered by Parliament in extremis; Its objective is to empower the Government to take the necessary measures to ensure that French law complies with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code. The fight for a clean, honest and ethical sport, in France and in the world, is not only an imperative, but also a struggle of every moment, which must not tolerate any relaxation. This uncompromising struggle is the responsibility of the sports movement, let us recall, to lead it; In order to be as effective as possible, it involves bringing our legislation into line with the World Anti-Doping Code. Transposition of international rules will enable progress to be made in the fight against a scourge that undermines the values of sport. First, it will allow for a better individualisation of profiles and sanctions. The main novelty of the text is the emergence of the concept of "abuse substances", a category that includes products for recreational use outside the sporting context; This approach allows for a better classification of substances. For so-called protected athletes, sanctions are reduced; This flexibility corresponds to the idea of empowering, accompanying and advising young athletes on a daily basis. Similarly, the transition from operational independence to the organizational independence of the NDSL confirms the necessary freedom of research towards any administrative or political body. The integration of the laboratory into AFLD was a French anomaly. His move to the University of Paris-Saclay will finally allow compliance with the global code. French research, which has always been at the forefront, has the capacity to detect new substances; Let's trust him. Finally, the new priority given to prevention is a sign of openness on the part of WADA. The all-repression does not work; awareness-raising must take precedence over sanction, even if I agree with the questions put in committee by Marie-George Buffet about the residual role, once again, of the Ministry of Sports, while it carries out legitimate missions to protect the health and integrity of athletes, particularly in the field of prevention for the youngest. Finally, the broadening of the scope of the surveys to include athletes is a common observation: the athlete's environment is decisive in whether or not to take doping products. This strengthening of investigative power enhances the Agency's role as regulator and facilitates its work in the fight against doping. However, we will have to remain extremely vigilant, as you said, Mr rapporteur, the implementing rapporteur, on the scope of the authorizations granted to the Government as well as on the drafting of the ordinances. We will support, for greater caution and security, the amendment proposed by the rapporteur's amendment to paragraph 2 of the single article of the bill, increasing the deadline for ratification of the order to six months instead of nine. Similarly, there is an urgent need to organize a legal tool to supplement the costs incurred before the Arbitral Tribunal for Sport. The most modest athletes who do not have access to the insurance of the legal aid fund must be accompanied with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u195	With regard to whistleblowers, the new version of the code is not a protection tool per se. The focus is on creating a sanction for individuals who threaten and intimidate informants. This difference in assessment is problematic in the investigation process and in the anticipation of doping cases. Even if the use of the order is critical, we consider it essential today, given the urgency, to bring our law into line with the World Anti-Doping Code, and to correct the irregularities identified, to go through it. On the fundamental question of the fight against doping, France cannot afford to face international sanctions. If the likelihood of immediate sanctions is low, we cannot lose credibility and legitimacy as we approach the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 – we had the opportunity to remind him, together with my colleague Stéphane Testé, in committee. The aim is to create an effective anti-doping system and to anticipate risks well in advance. The AFLD must comply with international standards in order to be operational and to accompany at best an entire generation, which requires only that. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u196	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u197	In our performance race, athletes are exposed and on the front line. Over the past 30 years, we have seen a steady improvement in the physical prowess of high-performance athletes, increasing professionalization and even greater monetization of local, national and international sporting events. Unfortunately, in the face of these major challenges, we have witnessed the increase in the use of illegal products or processes by athletes seeking to improve their performance and results. This global phenomenon concerns all sports and can affect all athletes, regardless of their age or level, whether professional or amateur. Doping poses risks to the health of athletes, as substances used can lead to behavioural disorders, health problems and even death. In the face of increased fraud, France, in order to promote equal opportunities and protect the health of athletes, introduced a law prohibiting the practice of doping in 1999 following the creation of WADA; This law was strengthened in 2006 by the creation of an independent public authority, AFLD, to define and carry out anti-doping actions and to punish violations of the rules in force. However, despite frequent testing during competitions and training, new methods and products are constantly emerging, and control professionals must constantly adapt. In order to strengthen the global anti-doping arsenal, WADA amended the World Anti-Doping Code in 2019. Since France has signed the International Convention against Doping in Sport since 2005, we are obliged to ratify the measures provided for in the World Anti-Doping Code. Today, therefore, it is up to us to redefine the roles of the various anti-doping bodies and to promote better cooperation between them. We have an obligation to incorporate these amendments into domestic law and to comply with international law in this regard. While this bill was tabled on our house last February, the health, social and economic context has forced us to delay its study. However, even if the virus is still active, we can no longer defer consideration of this text, which we must transpose imperatively before January 2021, under penalty of international sanctions. Among the main challenges of this transposition, we must ensure the organic separation of the anti-doping testing laboratory and the AFLD, especially for ethical reasons. In view of the urgency of the subjects dealt with, the Action Together Group welcomed the Government's request to legislate by order. We wonder, however, about the limited deadlines – less than a month – that France will have to bring our law into line and hope that France will be able to deliver on its commitments in a timely manner. As the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 in Paris are preparing, France must of course be blameless in setting up a system demanding the fight against doping, which will allow athletes to exceed their limits in a vigilant, secure and soothing framework. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Action Together group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u198	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u199	"The important thing in life is not the triumph, but the fight; The main thing is not to have defeated, but to have fought well. This phrase by Pierre de Coubertin resonates more justly than ever in a world where many sporting competitions have become professional and international, and their stakes are sometimes so important that they can become a source of tension. In this global game, we must have only one goal: that sport remain that passion that unites us and conveys the essential values of mutual aid, cooperation, self-exceeding, respect. These values of sport are those we would like to see in everyday life, those that make good citizens, those that simply make beautiful people. It is therefore imperative to continue to work to ensure that sport remains exemplary, and in particular doping-free. For if doping is a cheating, it is also a significant risk for athletes, who may find themselves dependent on these substances. We must therefore adopt protective legislation for the health of athletes as well as for the image of sport. For this purpose – as we have already mentioned in committee, rapporteur – education and prevention among our young people are vital, both at school and in sports clubs; those who regulate sports practice must inculcate good values and prevent children from the danger of doping. Turning back to the text before us today, the IDU and independent group is pleased to see it placed on the agenda at the end of the year, as the deadline for the entry into force of the new provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code on 1 January comes very quickly. You reassured us, Mr rapporteur: there is little chance of France being punished for failing to transpose these provisions in time; However, the nine-month period may seem questionable, and we thank you for having tabled an amendment to reduce this period to six months. We will support him. While we are pleased to see the harmonization of international rules continue in a climate of good cooperation between States, I must confess our concern about the recent law passed in the United States that would allow American courts to convict athletes for doping cases that have not taken place in their territory. France, Europe and all States wishing to ensure the proper functioning of international cooperation in the field of doping must respond to this situation, which creates great legal uncertainty. There are many advances in this text: sanctions proportionate to the level and behaviour of the athlete; the independence of the NDSL; the recognition of whistleblowers. On this last point, moreover, I hope that you can, Madam Minister Delegate, explain to us the means envisaged to transpose this measure into our law. Finally, at a time when the French authorities are beginning to prepare for the Paris Olympic Games, it is not necessary for the controls to focus exclusively on high-level sport – Mrs Buffet reminded him in committee. Amateur sport is just as important, because it is it that structures the sport practice throughout our territory; It is he who our fellow citizens live on a daily basis. In this regard, I wonder about the means devoted to the fight against doping in our country, knowing that next week, in a new reading, our House will consider the 2021 finance bill. There were legitimate concerns about the French authorities' ability to manage controls in all sports practices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and GDR groups]] The IDU and independent group will support this text and invite you, Madam Deputy Minister, to take the order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u200	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u201	There is almost a paradox to discuss in the fight against doping while the sports world, both amateur and professional, continues to suffer the devastating consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. Most national competitions were postponed, when they were not cancelled; The big dates will probably take place in 2021. As for amateur clubs, which make our territories live, they are in serious danger, because of the haemorrhage of layoffs during the long period of forced inactivity. While aid schemes have been mobilized by the state and communities, I would like to reiterate my concerns about a sustained decline in the number of licensees and clubs and in sports practice. Another threat to ethics and fairness in sport is the development of increasingly complex doping practices. These are in the forefront of the world's major events. In this regard, France must be exemplary, as it will host the Rugby World Cup in 2023 and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. How can we not remember the 2018 Olympic Winter Games, marked by the case that led to the disqualification of Russian athletes? This example of state doping, revealed by WADA, shows the extent of these unfair practices and the different forms they can take. Indeed, doping is not only the business of a person, an athlete; it may be the result of a state institution or specialized networks specific to high-level sport. That is why the anti-doping campaign must be conducted internationally. It also needs to be constantly adapted, because techniques and products are changing rapidly – it's a kind of perpetual time trial. In the case of Russian athletes, it is the controls that have been manipulated and distorted. Our actions must therefore also take this aspect into account. The Government is asking us to allow it to make an order that will provide for the organic separation of the anti-doping testing laboratory and AFLD, in order to bring our organization into line with the new WADA standard. It will also provide for the collection by AFLD of information relevant to its control activity and enhanced coordination among anti-doping actors. The intentions are legitimate. Nevertheless, the Liberties and Territories Group is waiting for you, Madam Deputy Minister, to clearly explain the measures the Government intends to take in this direction. Indeed, it is regrettable that we are proceeding by way of an order, even if, as we know, this is a normal procedure, made even more necessary by the health crisis. In addition, since WADA is criticized for its lack of efficiency and its lack of independence from the sports movement and Governments, we would like to hear the Government's position on this matter. If we do not doubt the relevance of WADA's role, these elements must lead us to question our relationship with WADA. Considering that the decisions of WADA and the International Olympic Committee – IOC – against Russia were insufficient, the US Senate adopted, on Monday, 16 November, the Rodchenkov Act, which aims to allow the United States to prosecute anyone involved in an international doping system, regardless of their nationality. Madam Deputy Minister, how does France stand in this arm of arms? Such initiatives should not undermine international cooperation. Major international events are only a magnifying magnifying glass of practices that develop well upstream. Therefore, amateur sport must not be forgotten, which means improving our education and awareness-raising policy, from an early age, and constantly recalling that the effects of doping are not only ethical: they are above all a danger to the health of athletes. Finally, our colleague Marie-George Buffet made it very clear in committee that additional human and financial resources should be allocated to AFLD, which will be entrusted with new responsibilities in the field of prevention and education. We noted this during the budget review: the allocation of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission for 2021 will not suffice. [[The rapporteur and Mrs Marie-George Buffet applaud]] With these concerns recalled, the Liberties and Territories group will of course vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u202	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u203	The single article of the bill seeks to empower the Government to "take by order all measures in the field of anti-doping law in order to ensure the conformity of domestic law with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, to define the new status of the anti-doping laboratory and to enhance the effectiveness of the anti-doping system by facilitating the collection of information by the French Anti-Doping Agency and the cooperation between the actors involved in this fight". The Group of the European People's Party, which I represent, has no substantive opposition to this text and will vote on it. Nevertheless, I wish to reiterate my disagreement with the method of ordinances. The Government tabled this text as early as February last. Nothing prevented him from introducing a full bill to allow for a real debate in Parliament. As you recalled, rapporteur, the date of entry into force of the new World Anti-Doping Code was set for 1 January 2021. This gave us ample time to follow the normal legislative procedure. Moreover, neither the explanatory statement nor the operative part of the bill nor even the impact statement lists all the necessary changes to French law. Parliamentarians must therefore vote without even having all the information available. In my view, this does not guarantee the principle of clarity and sincerity of the parliamentary debate. I would like to remind you of a position of principle. We would like to take advantage of the examination of this text to explore ways of improving French and international anti-doping policy. WADA's work has sometimes lacked efficiency and transparency, this was recalled. The investigation into Russian doping was very late. The former President of WADA himself acknowledged a problem of efficiency, as his comments reported by Le Monde on 7 November 2019 show: " [...] 282 Russian athletes competed in Rio, 169 in Pyeongchang. Is this an effective sanction? Russia was reinstated before what was claimed was provided. We lack a truly independent leadership. I would like to see real independence, but I think it will be difficult to achieve it. In this case, Russian athletes were targeted, but doping, as we know, is not the result of a single nationality; Unfortunately, it is quite widespread. Currently, WADA is composed and funded equally by the sports movement and governments. Athletes, who undergo anti-doping tests, are not represented in WADA's governance or control. This is why the AFLD signed a communiqué calling for "the elimination of conflicts of interest in the anti-doping system". I stress above all that WADA is too little funded: the annual budget of the global anti-doping regulator is only €32 million; This is the equivalent of the budget of Angers football club – forgive me for this sports comparison. A major reform of WADA's governance and funding is therefore necessary, if not indispensable. With regard to the AFLD, the draft finance law for 2021 foresees a very limited increase in its appropriations, from 9.59 million to 10.74 million euros. This meagre development is unrelated to the ambition to pursue a proactive anti-doping policy, particularly with a view to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. France has played a very active role in the global anti-doping campaign. I would like once again to acknowledge the role played by my colleague and friend Marie-George Buffet: if she was not the only one to act, she gave impetus to this work. Our country has made numerous provisions in its domestic law to ensure the integrity of sports competitions. It is important to maintain its standing by providing its agency with the means to increase its analytical and research capabilities and to fully carry out its missions, which are growing in scope. It should be noted that the budget of the United Kingdom Anti-Doping Agency is twice that of its French counterpart. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] My colleague Michel Larive reminded you of this when he presented his budget opinion on the "Sport, youth and associative life" mission: the group La France insoumise wishes to give AFLD a higher budget, in order to make it more effective. For the time being, I would like to reiterate in this rostrum that we will be voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u204	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u205	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for this text, and I would like to pay tribute here to the work of its rapporteur, Bertrand Sorre. Doping is a scourge. It places in a situation of dependence an athlete, sometimes very young, who, under pressure, in a leak in the name of performance, puts his or her health at risk and puts himself or herself on the margins of the common framework of sports practice; He or she's cheating. Doping is the moment when the athlete breaks up with what he has enjoyed, one day, as a child, in a dojo, in a gymnasium, on a field: the sharing of the game, the desire to win. To some – a minority – good performances, first rankings open the doors of the world of the high level, with the training loads that increase, the competition, the search for the result or the medal. This is the reality of performance, of excellence. The role of mentors and mentors is to accompany technically, but also psychologically, because the high level involves many sacrifices. The mastery of the perfect gesture and the joy of victory are a quest; they justify all efforts. It is the beauty of sport, the beauty that makes us vibrate, but also the beauty that States sometimes use. This pressure, this duty of result can lead individuals, teams, or even organisations to shift into the gear of doping. Doping practices are polymorphic, they can be very organized or done by individuals in their area, be institutionalized or escape from official radars. But, in any case, doping is a prison for the athlete, an infernal cycle from which it is difficult to get out. Combating doping through prevention, control and punishment is about preserving public health, protecting sportsmen and sportsmen, but it is also about fighting for the recognition of the place of sport in our societies as a vehicle for development and emancipation. Doping affects all sports, sometimes even at levels where the stakes are extremely limited. But the "all doped" is a decoy, which actually aims to trivialize the practice of a minority and deny the validity of the fight against doping. Yes, I saw sportsmen and sportsmen who ultimately had no choice, because the one who did not bow to doping was automatically set aside. I saw sportsmen and sportsmen who did not understand the seriousness of their actions, as the practice was trivialized. I've seen the damage that a certain commodification of sport could cause,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u207	... when the financial stakes lead to a close eye. We also know what state doping can be, disguised as patriotism. But I've mostly seen women and men fighting for a clean sport. These athletes, mentors, state executives, leaders and federation leaders, volunteers in clubs, and journalists also make up the majority, the vast majority. They are the honour of French sport. In 1999, France adopted a law against doping. It was not the first text in this area, but our country then turned to the European Union, then to the IOC and UNESCO, because the answer against doping only makes sense on a global scale. I am therefore convinced of the usefulness of WADA and the World Anti-Doping Code. Like any international forum, the Agency has its flaws, but its role is crucial. The same applies to our national agency, AFLD, whose work is to be welcomed. Its resources must be increased so that it can fully carry out its missions, which will be extended to prevention and education in accordance with international standards, and in addition to missions related to the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. She has to deal with it while maintaining – it's essential – her vigilance with regard to amateur sport. The international events that we will host will not suffer from any malfunction in this regard. Ministry responsible for sports, AFLD, Agence nationale du sport, Comité national olympic et sportif français, organizing committees, all will be at the rendezvous if we give them the means and we correctly articulate the competences of each of them. I would like to welcome the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, in particular the one aimed at reducing the deadline for the order from nine to six months. This duration seems much more appropriate to me. Colleagues, the fight against doping is part of a broader approach to ethics in sport, a work led by the Ministry of Sport. It also raises the question of the protection of sportsmen and sportsmen, of their physical and psychological integrity, on which we must continue to work. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in this time of crisis, sport, whether professional, amateur or high-level, is fragile. Beyond the necessary emergency measures, we must therefore work on structural responses. A broader debate will have to be held in Parliament on our sport model, its means and, above all, its aims. There are still many outstanding issues, hence the interest – and I know that the minister delegate has this ambition – in putting a sports framework bill on the agenda of our assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In order to see France prove to be irreproachable in the fight against doping in order to protect both sport and athletes as well as public health, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u208	Mr Patrick Vignal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u209	Madam Minister Delegate, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Rapporteur – not to mention the members of the cabinet of the Deputy Minister, who are working very hard – we are looking at the bill enabling the Government to take the measures in the field of law necessary to ensure that domestic law complies with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code. As you have all said, since March we have been experiencing an unprecedented health crisis in France, Europe and the world. Presented by the Government at the beginning of the year, the bill to enable the global anti-doping code to be transposed into French law was to offer Parliament a genuine and substantive debate on doping in sport. But the events that we are experiencing force us to adapt. Therefore, we have no choice but to authorize the Government by order to transpose these new modalities and measures contained in the new World Anti-Doping Code 2021. France is one of the most recognized and committed countries in the fight against doping, a future organizer of international events – Rugby World Cup 2023 and Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024. Therefore, we could not afford to face sanctions that could have been imposed against the State for non-compliance with the Code. Doping is a scourge that gangrenes our society, starting with professional, amateur and recreational sport. How far will we go in this society of performance, which constantly places the individual in the background behind financial interests and cost-effectiveness without conscience? Annihilated, man is becoming a robot. All spheres of society, not just sport, suffer this frenzy. Doping even becomes mechanical, like mechanical assistance in cycling. Sport performance targets "more and more". And animal doping is expanding. There are medications to go further in performance, to recover better, to be more effective. Substances sometimes condition the academic success of students, the professional career of certain leaders, and, very rarely, the political staff. [[Smile]] Exceeding oneself by physical activity, traditionally inculcated, has been replaced by chemistry. Owner of a sports club, teaching in STAPS – science and technology of physical and sporting activities – and in a CREPS – centre of sports resources, expertise and performance – I was able to see this evolution. I have seen adherents who, at the age of 70, took anabolics to gain muscle, young people who, as teenagers, wanted to look like Rambo, and even a certain youth who were taking medication to be more effective in other situations. This is a whole part of our society, which is the only part of performance and which is only surpassed by chemistry! However, these more and more injunctions are not rational. They only succeed in losing the individual in a maze of egocentric mirrors. Here's the question: after what are we running in our society? Can you imagine the side effects that the person who has been consuming these products has suffered? And I would not forget, Madam Minister Delegate, social networks, video games, screens, before which our teenagers – kids – spend seven hours a day instead of sailing, skiing, or being in one of the sports complexes of the community world. Dependence, metabolic or neurological disorders, depression: in the end, the race is lost in advance and we find ourselves in a society where we judge only what you have, what you own, but not what you are. Clean sport, respectful of human performance, will always be more valuable than any false truth. Its values must be guaranteed by teachers, coaches, competition organisations and federations. They must exercise greater vigilance on these issues and encourage athletes to adopt a psycho-corporeal approach to their discipline, which will bring them a better balance and place their ego in its proper place. Moving towards a clean sport, a "zero doping" sport, is the Government's goal by proposing to transpose the World Anti-Doping Code 2021. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the La République en marche group will vote the bill with pleasure and conviction. Our beautiful Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education had adopted the text unanimously, as she knows so well, and I thank all the groups who will vote again in the public sitting. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope that tomorrow we will also be able to gather together to take power over the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u210	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u211	The Republican Group has always taken a proactive and responsible approach to the fight against doping. Now that we have once again taken a decision on this issue, we will continue to honour this legacy. While France has continued to play an important role in the fight against doping, with a coherent legislative arsenal that has enabled it to achieve results in this field, this necessary fight can only be effective beyond the national framework, that is, on a global scale. This is the reason for the World Anti-Doping Code, which has evolved several times since its inception in 2003 and whose latest version must be incorporated into our domestic law before January 1st. However, this transposition raises some questions. Firstly, the procedure for implementing this transposition seems questionable to me. The urgency invoked by the Government to justify the use of article 38 of the Constitution is no longer in doubt, as the deadline of 1 January is narrow. However, I cannot but deplore the Government's delay. In addition, the over-systematic use of orders also raises questions. Of course, the procedure seems to be in line with our institutions and past practices, but how can we not see confirmation of some institutional drift? Secondly, the need to incorporate the new wording and the new provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code into legislation must not prevent us from assessing all its implications. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to a series of concerns. The first relates to the risk of weakening the protection of athletes, the result of a legal offensive of Anglo-Saxon law to the detriment of continental law, which could contradict our conception of rights of defence and freedoms. Indeed, we could witness a reversal of the burden of proof, detrimental to athletes by creating permanent suspicion about them as well as differences in treatment that are difficult to understand. As such, priority issues of constitutionality arising from certain athletes are not to be excluded. During the hearings I have conducted, I have also found that athletes, for fear of appearing as defenders of doping practices, fear to criticize the new code, while the ongoing monitoring it requires raises fundamental questions about respect for individual freedoms. There must be no omerta on this point and the warnings of athletes must be heard. My second question concerns the vagueness of certain measures. In his opinion on the World Anti-Doping Code 2021, given to WADA, the former President of the European Court of Human Rights, Jean-Paul Costa, alerted us on this point. As for my third and final question, it concerns the lack of prevention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u212	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u213	... all the more so as doping spreads far beyond high-level sports, or even amateurs, and affects the users of sports halls. No prohibition, if it is to be effective, can avoid a policy of concomitant prevention. And in this area, the lack of global coordination is a reminder of some of our country's shortcomings. Indeed, each federation acts on its side, while a coordinated and comprehensive impulse is needed in all sports.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u215	In an attempt to respond, the Ministry presented in 2019 a new scheme of 17 actions for the period 2019-2024, in order to extend the spectrum of prevention to those who practice sport outside clubs and to be able to count on distinguished ambassadors. In addition, the reduction of controls in amateur sports to the benefit of those carried out in high-level sport must be accompanied by a strengthening of prevention in the school environment. That means, Madam Minister, a budget that meets the objectives set, which is not quite the case. The examination of the text in committee did not remove the uncertainties surrounding this necessary financial adjustment. In the run-up to the Rugby World Cup 2023 and the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024, France must be exemplary. The fight against doping must become a priority for the host country of these global events. There can be no shadow over French sport, especially not that of the scourge of doping. Some will say that it is the society's burden of performance, that it is aggravated by the mercantilization of high-level sport or that it is intrinsic to the man's will to win over others or over himself. This may be the source of the feeling that legislation will always be behind bad doping practices. Nevertheless, I refuse any fatalism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. -Mr. Patrick Vignal also applauds]] The Republicans Group will vote on this bill, but as every time the Government uses this delegated legislative procedure, our group will not fail to be particularly vigilant about the measures that will result.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u217	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u218	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u219	Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u220	The bill aims to comply with the principles of the new World Anti-Doping Code as early as January 2021. It is an indispensable and necessary text if France is to be exemplary in this field. Doping has existed since time immemorial, as far as sport goes: Greeks already consumed hallucinogenic mushrooms to increase their endurance. This practice is nevertheless reprehensible and begins when a substance or process is used to increase sports performance. This first gesture will gradually condition the athlete, whether professional or amateur, and we know how much the habit of gesture counts in addictive practices. If the fine gesture, fair play and competition are the ferments of a healthy individual or collective emulation, doping goes against the spirit of sport. More than the gesture, therefore, it is the spirit that needs to be sought. Beyond the issue of doping, let us ask ourselves about the culture of performance – a cult that has its worshipers, temples and healers, a cult that places performance above health and always dehumanizes sport a little more. Doping is not only a cheating, but also a tyranny: that of endless exceedance of physical performance. Let us not be afraid to say this, this practice is indicative of a society which, unfortunately, thinks of itself from a technical rather than aesthetic angle – if by aesthetics one hears the beautiful, the harmony of a practice, a renewed health, a regained confidence. Doping is a silent witness to the difficulties we face in our societies of overperformance, which is why it is far out of reach in other sectors. I am thinking of some students who use them for their exams, some musicians on long tours and many other professionals who are asked to go beyond them and who use comparable processes to increase their intellectual efficiency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will conclude with Goethe's formula: "He who consciously recognizes his limits is the closest to perfection. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u221	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u222	It aims to better define the authority to legislate requested from Parliament, specifying that bringing national law into line with the obligations of the World Anti-Doping Code will cover the stipulations which will enter into force from 1 January 2021. I therefore propose to add to the initial draft of the article the date of 1 January 2021 imposed on us by the new drafting of the global code Acted in Katowice in November 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u223	I call on the Minister responsible for sports to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u224	The amendment is intended to clarify the date of entry into force of the international standards that we are transposing today into French law. This is a useful clarification because it makes it possible to underline the urgency of this compliance and to assure WADA of France's commitment to the fight against doping. I would like to reassure you about the possibility of achieving this consensus goal – I say consensus, because all the processes for revising the global code are subject to lengthy consultations, often for several years, and when the review process was presented in Katowice, it was unanimously adopted by the UNESCO World Conference against Doping. As you said, we did not delay because I introduced the enabling bill to the Council of Ministers on February 19, 2020, which was tabled in Parliament the next day. Everyone here knows the emergencies we've been facing since March, so I'll just thank you, too, for finding a consensus on the bill, which will make it easier and faster to pass it. I am in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u225	On the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u226	It is also an editorial amendment. It aims to frame the work of drafting the ordinance provided for in the enabling bill, by enshrineing the obligation to reconcile the requirements and procedures contained in the World Anti-Doping Code with the principles and norms of constitutional value and with France's international commitments. I therefore propose that paragraph 1 should be supplemented by the words "in accordance with the constitutional and treaty principles in force in the territory of the Republic". This was included in the device of the authorisation application which entered into force on 1 January 2015. It seemed important to me to reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u228	The new version of the World Anti-Doping Code will have a substantial impact on the current provisions of the Sports Code – in this regard, I would point out that the work on the draft Ordinance is already under way by my ministry, in conjunction with AFLD and WADA. As with every transposition, the challenge is to reconcile the new obligations of the World Anti-Doping Code with the principles of French law, first and foremost the safeguarding of the fundamental principles of individual freedoms. From the beginning, and I am proud of it, France has chosen to translate the global anti-doping provisions into the sport code to raise the changes decided by WADA to the level of French law. The Government's proposal since 2010 for parliamentary representation to legislate by statute is to comply with the global calendar and not to be subject to infringement procedures. I would also like to reassure you that my ministry will retain its full place in the management of public anti-doping policy. AFLD will be a contributor and the State will accompany it with additional means: by 2021, five full-time equivalents will be recruited to allow AFLD to carry out a thousand additional annual checks. However, I trust the dynamism of this renewed institution to diversify its sources of funding, in line with the commitment of WADA and Witold Banka at the international level. Having said that, I am very much in favour of the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u229	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u230	It proposes to reduce the time allowed to the Government to make the order provided for in the draft law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u232	Many of you have rightly suggested this to me in committee, and I believe that it gives WADA an additional pledge regarding the willingness of Parliament and the Government to bring our right into conformity quickly, respecting the date of 1 January 2021 as best as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u234	We have all stressed the urgency of transposition. Work is already under way with the Department of Justice, the AFLD and WADA to finalize the draft order, and I undertake before you, if it is adopted earlier this year in the Senate, to present the order to you in the first quarter of 2021. Further work will be continued, with the necessary updating of several implementing decrees. The Prime Minister recently wrote to the President of WADA to inform him of the date of today's sitting and to confirm to him the joint and collective mobilization of the Government and parliamentarians to bring our law into conformity as soon as possible. I therefore express a favourable opinion, committing myself to act within six months of the adoption of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u235	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u236	As I mentioned in the general discussion, this is a very good amendment, for two reasons. First of all, since the bill was introduced in February, interesting exchange work could be done between WADA, the Ministry of Justice, your ministry, the Minister Delegate, and the AFLD. Since the work is underway, it seems useful to reduce the time from nine to six months. The other point of the amendment – if the announced timetable is well respected – is that, as you know, the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games will exceptionally take place in 2021, i.e. next summer, in late July and early August. As you also know, the day after the Games, we will be on the eve of the Paris 2024 Olympiad. It would be a great signal to have ratified the order in the bill by then. It would allow France to display, in the fight against doping, a credibility and an example of which we all stressed the importance this afternoon. That would be an asset to the organizing committee team.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u237	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u238	The bill on which we will be voting in a few moments aims to bring the French system into line with the standards of the global fight against doping. This text is of the utmost importance because France must be at the forefront of the fight against doping, especially since it will be the host country of the 2023 Rugby World Cup and the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. France has always been recognised for the essential role it has played and still plays in the fight against doping. It has always been one of the countries most involved in the fight against this scourge that gangens sports and too often distorts results. Doping in sport is not new, but it has developed, expanded geographically and has become more visible in recent decades. This is an important problem for many competitive sports, which endangers the health of millions of young athletes around the world. Doping is present at all levels, professional as well as amateur, and affects even the youngest, with the health problems that accompany it, and it extends even further with the mechanical doping that has arisen in some disciplines. We must not deny this: the fight against doping is a difficult and constant fight against all forms of cheating. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not done with doping, and France will have to do its part to combat this scourge, which distorts results, damages sport and can have very serious consequences for the health of athletes. The bill is an additional stone that will allow our country to play its full role in the essential fight against doping in sport. It represents a major step forward for a clean sport, a healthy sport, an integrated sport; That is why the La République en marche group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u239	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u240	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 64 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The bill was passed unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-07-O1109.u242	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
