ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law to combat hateful content on the Internet (adopted text No. 388). Before we begin our work, I would remind you that, in this period of health crisis, 150 Members may meet in the Chamber from this week onwards, in proportion to the size of the groups. On the other hand, the sanitary rules you know continue to apply naturally: cleaning up the hemicycle before and after each sitting, and microphones during the sitting; Speakers are encouraged not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones; distances between participants must be respected; the entrances and exits are staggered. Finally, let me remind you that speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u2	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u3	The Internet is a formidable space for freedom and the dissemination of knowledge. Part of the dream of its founders has been realized: access to knowledge has never been easier; Every day, billions of people exchange, create, learn online. Nevertheless, this ideal of freedom threatens its very existence, because in the folds of this freedom has developed disturbing abuses. The Internet is also about infox, attempts to manipulate the masses, cyber attacks and the emergence of new actors whose size and complexity pose an unprecedented challenge to democratic society. This challenge involves a constant dialogue between the public authorities and the major players on the Internet; and if this dialogue must always exist, the public authorities must also define a framework for regulating the activities of these actors. The current majority has taken up these questions with the force by adopting the Act of 22 December 2018 on combating the manipulation of information. Internet hate is another problem, which requires an appropriate response from the public authorities. While large operators are great tools for sharing, conviviality and sociability, it is enough to spend a few moments on Twitter, YouTube or Facebook to meet with incitement to racial hatred, homophobic insults, sexist, racist or anti-Semitic. The fight against the dissemination of such content and the regulation of major digital players is a global challenge. This challenge is technological, because of the mass of content to be managed, and legal, because of the transnational dimension of the actors concerned. To date, no democratic country has succeeded in effectively combating this phenomenon. The development of hate crimes on the Internet hinders our ability to make a society. The dematerialization and potentially unlimited duration of their dissemination give these messages a considerable impact. That is why the public authority cannot resolve itself to impotence in this matter. The fight against hate content is a global policy. The Government's willingness to act is reflected in our commitment to Cédric O and to me, as well as the commitment of all the ministers concerned to Laetitia Avia, Caroline Abadie and the majority who support this text. The proposal for a law to combat hate content on the Internet aims to empower the operators of platforms, since they cannot exonerate themselves from any responsibility by arguing that the tool they have created is uncontrollable. The aim is to complement the system aimed at combating hate content. I recall that under the law of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, publishers are already responsible for the content they publish. Platforms must also be criminally responsible, under certain conditions, for the content they broadcast. This is the subject of article 1, which imposes, under penalty of criminal punishment, the withdrawal of hate content. This obligation to withdraw weighs on the large operators of online platforms whose activities on French territory exceed the thresholds set by decree. Content must be removed within 24 hours once it has been reported by one or more users. For search engines, it is to delete the content of the results page. Failure to comply with this obligation constitutes an offence punishable by a fine of 250,000 euros. Legal persons, particularly covered by this scheme, are liable to a fine of EUR 1250000. Hate content that must be withdrawn is those that constitute offences under the criminal law. The scope of the offences concerned has been the subject of debate here, and you have rightly decided to limit it to offences of certain gravity: apologies of crimes or offences, discriminatory insults or provocations, child pornography, etc. The content required to be withdrawn by operators is those which are manifestly unlawful, i.e. which clearly constitute an infringement. For example, with regard to discriminatory insults, these are the statements for which no contextualization is necessary to characterize the offence. This mechanism seems to me to be balanced. It is in any case in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which considers that the criminal liability of platform operators may be incurred, in the case of non-retirement of unlawful content, only if such wrongfulness is manifest, i.e. obvious, or if they have been declared such by the judge. The obligation to withdraw, together with the obligations of means imposed on platform operators to ensure transparency of information, will enable the monitoring of how platforms implement their decisions. At present, we do not know what the platforms are doing and the public authority has no means of controlling that the removal of certain content under the general conditions of use is effective. If this has been the subject of debate, the mechanism shall in no way lead to the withdrawal of the judicial authority; In particular, the latter may be seized in the event of an abusive withdrawal causing an infringement of freedom of expression and communication. Some highly harmful content requires greater reactivity so that it can be removed as quickly as possible: it is child pornography or apologies of terrorism. Article 1 complements the existing system by allowing PHAROS, a platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding the reports of the Ministry of the Interior, to request the withdrawal of these contents within a reduced time limit of one hour. A gradation is thus carried out between the contents reported and the persons who report, depending on whether they are administrative authorities or individuals. The text also intensifyes the fight against so-called mirror sites, which contribute greatly to the spread of hateful content and reinforce their virality. Article 6 allows the rapid blocking of sites which constitute replicas of those already declared unlawful by the judge. Internet service providers, such as search engines, will be able to block or de-reference them upon notification by the administrative authority. However, this measure cannot be analysed in any way as a measure of administrative blocking or de-listing: in the event of refusal by the operator, recourse to the judicial judge will remain indispensable in order to order blocking or de-listing. There is therefore, I repeat, no hindrance from the judicial authority, which takes its full place in the system. While the empowerment of digital actors is essential, it should be borne in mind that the dissemination of hate speech is primarily a matter of individual responsibility. There is a need to put an end to impunity through which some people allow themselves to make statements that they would never dare to speak in the real world. While our repressive arsenal is satisfactory, it has emerged during the discussions that organizational improvements could further increase the effectiveness of the criminal response. For that reason, the Government had called for the establishment of a specialized prosecutor's office, which could better organize the punishment of such offences. It is likely that the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, which will have concurrent competence to intervene on these issues, will be unable to deal with the uses and problems of digital technology. In due course, I will issue a circular to all prosecutors to indicate how this specialized prosecutor's office should link its work with that of local prosecutors and courts. It will have to play a central role in dealing with online complaints. Its role will also be essential to provide a criminal response to acts involving several individuals, for example in the case of discriminatory digital raids or where many complaints concern a single publication. The appointment of a specialized court to deal with such cases will ensure consistency in criminal response and case law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The strengthening of the effectiveness of criminalizations against hate speech on the Internet will contribute to the fight against these phenomena. Anyone who knows that he will, with a high probability, have to answer for his actions often thinks twice before crossing the red line. The adoption of this bill is therefore an important step in the realization of the seriousness of these acts and in their repression. I can only greet her – as well as her author.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u4	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, you are about to finally pass this bill, just over a year after it was announced by the President of the Republic. This time has been very useful to improve, rework, clarify and reinforce a text that, I hope, will mark an important step in the fight against online hatred and, more broadly, in a movement to regulate and adapt our legislative and regulatory framework to what has become our online life – a movement that I believe is only at the beginning. Such adoption occurs in a very specific context. The crisis that we are going through encourages us to put our political action and, probably, some of our priorities back into perspective. Let's make it clear: Unfortunately, this is not the case with online hate. The progress that this text will make has never been more urgent. For two months, our fellow citizens have more than ever used digital tools to inform themselves, work, communicate, entertain themselves, in short, to keep good during confinement. During these two months, online hatred has increased, against the background of conspiracy, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, homophobia as well. This scourge has helped to reinforce the sense of isolation of some victims, while the perpetrators of these hateful content still felt, and more than ever, untouchable. The Government, along with the associations, has mobilized to remedy this situation. We worked with the platforms: we took stock of how they deployed in this exceptional context, we asked them to do more, commensurate with their importance in the lives of the French. We must salute those – not all of them – who responded in such a difficult time for their moderation teams. But we have also seen the urgency of establishing the legislative framework contained in this bill: we can no longer rely on the goodwill of the platforms and on their commitments. It is up to the state to set clear rules, in line with the requirements of our citizens; It is up to the regulator to ensure that they are applied proportionately and effectively and, if necessary, to sanction them. The text proposed to you has been shaped by national representation and refined over the course of the discussions, taking into account the comments made by the Council of State and the European Commission. As such, I regret that the Senate, while recognizing the merits of this proposal, preferred to defeat the Joint Joint Committee. There was, however, an opportunity for a trans-party and trans-parliamentary consensus on a subject that must mobilize all of us. Laetitia Avia's bill combines the strength of a clear goal – the 24-hour withdrawal of manifestly illegal hate content – with a system-wide regulatory framework, covering all the means used by the platforms, under the supervision of the CSA, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel. This new regulatory mechanism is particularly suitable for platforms whose size, model, are varied and constantly evolving. It will be the first step in the regulatory paradigm of the platforms that we have been calling for in several years. Of course, the decisive step of adopting this text obliges us. We will present in the coming weeks the decrees for the implementation of the law; We will also have to complete the arsenal that will ensure its proper application, whether it be the APF, the observatory provided for in the text, or the judiciary. The latter, Nicole Belloubet recalled, will play a key role in the mechanism designed to combat impunity for the perpetrators of hate content. Let us not forget: this fight is far from over. It must find a European extension, because Europe is the most effective level to regulate digital players, especially the largest of them. The work carried out in the drafting of this text, as previously done in Germany, has led to awareness-raising. In the context of the new European mandates, the French authorities strongly insisted that this concern should be at the top of the agenda. The European Commission now claims it: it has announced that it will deal with the subject in its future Digital Services Act. Be assured that we will ensure the ambitions of this text and that our citizens will only be better protected from it. In addition, the experience of a national mechanism will be a valuable asset in influencing these discussions and in developing a European mechanism that is as effective as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] Before concluding, I would like to add a more personal word. Of course, I can only talk about what I know and what I've been through. What I know is that the text that you are going to adopt would not be there if, for two years, Laetitia Avia had not waged a fierce fight to see it hatch and succeed. It has always been able to move forward, with tenacity that could be demonstrated by the services of the Government, so that the principle of reality and the obligation to achieve results are necessary in the face of legal difficulties and the operational complexity of a new field of regulation. Once again, it is up to the state to protect its citizens, including online. What I also know, after a year of almost daily work with Laetitia Avia, is that suggesting that she may be racist or homophobic is a nameless absurdity. [[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to adopt this necessary text today and I assure you that we are only at the beginning of our efforts on this subject. We will report to you and ensure that we live up to this challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u6	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u7	Finally, we are here: not at the end of the fight against hatred on the Internet, but at a decisive stage, that of the adoption of a bill stating that what is not tolerated in public space cannot be tolerated online; that we are not powerless to protect those who are the target of this hatred, because of what they are in their being, in their flesh; that we can encourage an internet where the debate will continue with vigour, with passion, but with respect for the other. In order to do so, we must not fear setting targets, obligations for results, to the major platforms on which the content of our exchanges and communications depends for many. We are there, and yet the road has been long since the task of drawing up this text was entrusted to me, as well as to Gil Taieb and Karim Amelal, more than two years ago. In the course of the debates, I have often heard that our text was put to the vote too early, that it had been fed with too much emotion, that it was of special importance. Every time we come up with this bill, it's a circumstance! Hate on the Internet is a daily fact: its news is permanent, and even more glaring today. It must be noted that during the health crisis, where our relations focused on social networks, it was not confined, on the contrary; We are all witnesses to this. The Internet, this space of possibilities, of openness to the world, especially when you have to stay at home, can become a hell for those who find themselves confined with their executioners, cyber-harassed without any escape other than the retreat on their own. The object of our differences with the Senate is simple: do we just have to give the platforms the obligations of means, or do we have to determine a level of requirement? We have seen in recent months that when we let the platforms set the rules of the game, move the cursor, choose the priorities of their moderation, it is the victims who pay. Today, therefore, we are taking over the reins. This "we" has all the strength of the collective, because each line of this text is based on contributions, meetings, exchanges. We have regularly held round tables with anti-discrimination associations, which work on a daily basis against online hatred. We must recognize that the platforms have opened their doors to us, so that we can better understand how they work and how they are likely to evolve. The Government has fully mobilized itself; I would like to sincerely thank Nicole Belloubet and Cédric O, as well as their teams, whose support, accompaniment and patience in the moments of crowding have greatly helped us to build this text. This work has also been done with you, ladies and gentlemen. The text has been enriched by our debates, your contributions; All the benches took part. The place of human dignity is due to our socialist colleagues. Our Republican colleagues have evolved his title and his stakes. The measures relating to prevention were sought by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, the preservation of personal data by the Freedom and Territory Group, the accessibility of information to Internet users by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, the supervision of the powers of the CSA by the IDU group, Act and Independents. I do not forget, of course, the many contributions of my colleagues from La République en marche, supported by Caroline Abadie, for example the online hate observatory and the digital prosecutor's office. This text is therefore a collective work. It belongs to each and every one of us. In recent hours, the "Law Avia" or "Laetitia Avia" hashtags were among the most popular on Twitter; I know that for many, through this text to which I have always refused to associate my name, I embody the fight against online hatred. It is true that the fight against racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia is my political struggle and probably the fight of my entire life; I will always lead her with strength and conviction. But what we are doing today is far beyond my person: it is for all of us to put an end to the impunity we see on social networks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are going to adopt a rich, ambitious, innovative text, a text in which you find your resilience, your commitment to freedom of expression, your willingness to defend national sovereignty in order to protect our citizens, because let us not forget that this text is primarily intended for the victims of online hatred. They're looking forward to it and they're counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u8	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u9	This motion for prior rejection deals primarily with the method. So there would be an urgent need to adopt this text, in a configuration which, in my view, is not respectful of Parliament, since we cannot all be present. However, if urgent there is, it is located elsewhere. We were all elected by the people, but I was elected in Seine-Saint-Denis, where the social emergency is more than palpable. The associations that intervene in this field and do a magnificent job, Les Restos du coeur, the Secours populaire français, others, as well as many field collectives, testify to an urgent situation in which the Government is very late.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u10	You're a diversion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u11	The current social situation is terrible; She would deserve us to act without delay. But that's not why you think we need to act quickly, it's to get this bill passed! This urgency is not based, and it says a lot about the use you are probably planning to make of this text. For you, there is an urgent need to apply a law that I will call liberticide in that it will reduce freedom of expression. Of course, it is a question of combating the use of the Internet to make scandalous, racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic statements. Of course, the victims you have mentioned, whom we also represent, often find themselves in a situation where justice, in the process of impoverishment, is overburdened and does not have the means to act. There are already legislative arrangements in this area, but the procedures are extremely lengthy. Justice is no longer really a public service; It is no longer always defending our fellow citizens, because the judges, whose work I once again welcome, face too many material problems, due in particular to the measures that you have taken in the wake of other governments. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] What I accuse of this text is that it leads to an arbitrary one, that it gives the big operators the possibility of almost immediate censorship, without any basis other than a report which can be extremely vague. Not wanting to be punished, these operators will systematically block exchanges, on the basis of algorithms, according to certain words. This will reduce freedom of expression. I'm exaggerating, do you think? We have already provided examples of these processes. Denis Robert was censored by an editorial entitled "En marcher vers l'confrontation totale": perhaps the title was a bit harshly denouncing the politics that you are leading, but I hope that in our society journalists can still make a critical opinion heard. In October 2019, Facebook censored the pages of the South Rail and CGT unions without any explanation. In February 2020, the Extinction Rebellion movement was targeted. We could go on with the list. No doubt, these web pages criticized your policy, but again, I hope that we can still express our discontent in this country! Your own protests say a lot about your inability to hear the criticism: you no longer tolerate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u12	You, you do not accept that the law applies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, you will all be able to express yourself when your turn comes: you will not want your comments to receive the same welcome! Go on, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u14	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It's very revealing of a climate. Go on! Thank you for bringing water to my mill. On March 28, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe stated that he would not let anyone say that the decision to confine the population had been made late. Indeed, he had to take his words at the foot of the letter! You can't stand being criticized anymore! We're here! What is hateful content? The definition can be extremely broad. Is that a criticism of you? A text that would contain a little harsh words against your policy? When one is attached to freedom of expression, it is that of its opponents that one must, as a matter of principle, defend. However, in the name of good intentions, you invite us to vote for a text that will multiply the opportunities to censor because everything can be interpreted as hateful content. I did not want to mention the controversy surrounding the rapporteur because I do not know the facts and I will not allow myself to make any judgement, but since she referred to it herself and the Secretary of State came to her aid, I will simply note that she invites us, in her defence, which is perhaps right, to put her comments in context. The bottom of the subject is here. No doubt it is in good faith when it finds it scandalous that a word should be taken out of its context to reproach it, when it calls on us to take into account the context. The problem is indeed delicate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u15	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u16	No doubt, Mr President, will you bear in mind in your vastness the evil fate which was reserved for me during my speech?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u17	That has been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u18	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] This text organizes a form of censorship on the basis of arbitrariness. It erases the role of the judicial judge for the benefit of the police, which is a matter of great concern. He's trampling on the separation of powers. We'd like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u19	Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u20	[[Ms. Danièle Obono applauded, as did Ms. Marine Le Pen and Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan]] Rather than massively detecting and distributing masks free of charge, as we have asked, you are organizing a massive censorship system. This text is in your image and will make you even more worrying once you have made it a law in your hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u21	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u22	The Libertés et territoires Group will vote on this motion for rejection for three reasons. First of all, the fundamentals of our right have been challenged for two centuries. The judge's place is upstream, not downstream, Madam Minister. Secondly, as the rapporteur herself acknowledged, we can only expect the worst if we leave the reins to the digital giants. Now, that's what you're doing. Finally, as Mr Corbière has explained very well, this text is potentially liberticide and certainly ineffective, since it is at European level that action should be taken. You know that very well and that is another contradiction in your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u23	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have a basic disagreement: unlike you who consider that there is no urgency to legislate, we believe that there will always be an urgent need to act to combat hatred, homophobia, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, racism There will always be an urgent need to legislate to reduce attacks on our democracy. If we have to regret one thing today, it is that this text has not been adopted earlier, because the period of confinement that we have been through reveals that the spread of hatred and racism on social networks still has good days ahead of it. Many of us here have witnessed or been the victims of this harassment, starting with the rapporteur. The purpose of this bill is to establish a broad principle, which Ms. Avia has clearly stated: what is prohibited in real space must also be prohibited in virtual space. This text provides for the digital environment to be framed with appropriate tools so that the Internet remains an area of freedom, exchange, equality and solidarity and is not the place where our Republic, our democracy and our values could be flouted. Because there is an urgent need for action, the La République en marche group will reject this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u25	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u26	We do not agree with all the comments made by Mr Corbière. However, without going so far as to treat this text as a liberticide, we recognize that some of its provisions could threaten freedom of expression and raise issues. Mrs Le Grip will speak on this in a few moments. [[Mrs. Marine Le Pen laughs]] If our amendments are not adopted, we intend not to vote on this text, for the reasons that my colleague will explain to you. Therefore, even if we do not agree with everything Mr Corbière has said, the Republicans will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u27	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u28	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this motion of rejection because, as Mr Gouffier-Cha has said, there is an urgent need to vote on this bill and I hope it will be done within a few hours. It was time to act, indeed. Mr. Corbière blames us for wanting to fight against simply "a little hard" words. In all proportions, we are considering a bill to combat hate content on the Internet, as Mrs Avia has called it with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u29	I mentioned Denis Robert's editorial, censored by Youtube! That's it, "a little hard" words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u30	The expression "a little hard words," in my view, does not mean much. On the other hand, I am greatly concerned about such words in your mouth. My colleague Géraldine Bannier reminded me just now that in 2015, a few weeks after the attacks, there were still words on the Internet that did not fit in. This bill will make it possible to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u31	What a naivety!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u32	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u33	The majority invoked the urgency of placing this text on the agenda of a rather extraordinary session. We could tell you that the urgency is urgent when it comes to combating discrimination and racism. We could remind you of the many proposals we have put before you over the past three years to carry out a genuine public policy to combat discrimination, to strengthen the means of justice, to improve the support of victims, as requested by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, the human rights defender and all human rights and anti-racism associations. These structures, moreover, are very critical of your text. France is not the only country that rejects it: trade unions of professional associations, Internet specialist associations, such as the Quadrature du net and many others that you have failed to mention, the rapporteur, warn you about the dangers of this text which they call liberticide. For years, these associations have been calling on the public authorities to strengthen the means, especially human resources, to improve the support of victims of discrimination and to help them obtain redress, as the judicial process is fraught with obstacles. They ask you to train the officers of the justice, the police, the education so that they can respond to these demands. I will not take up all these proposals, but they are numerous and have been coming from associations and our group for years. This is the emergency. However, your text does not answer any problems. You do not propose anything to help victims, nothing to strengthen the means of justice, nothing to ensure that the new digital prosecutor's office works in good conditions, in terms of both financial and personnel resources. Worse, your text is the opposite of what should be done. You have thus rejected our proposals which focused on the core of the problem: the economy of attention, in particular algorithms. Not only do you neglect this aspect but you strengthen the power of the platforms at the expense of the judge. Your work is neither done nor done and we cannot adopt your text which, at best, is useless, at the worst dangerous. That's why The group of France will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u35	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u36	We have gathered in a very small number to discuss again Mrs Avia's bill, which aims to combat hateful content on the Internet. We are at the third and final reading because the deep disagreements between the majority of the National Assembly and the Senate have made any possibility of agreement fail. We therefore sit, in this very particular period of state of health emergency, subject to restrictive health constraints, and we regret that the Government and its majority, in these circumstances, have been obliged to rush the examination of a text that is highly criticized, which raises many questions and raises many concerns in that it violates freedom of expression. This attitude leaves us with dreams. Let's get to the bottom. Frédéric Reiss had said it at first reading: it is very delicate and complicated to fight against hateful content published on the Internet. Several European countries have risked seeking parades against the spread of hate speech, in vain. Germany passed a law in 2017. After a year and a half of application, it must be recognized that it is very imperfect. It is criticized not only for its ineffectiveness, which means that the objectives set are not achieved, but above all for the threat of excessive censorship of the publications concerned. These two pitfalls look out for us if we adopt this text as it stands. The threats to freedom of expression are of particular concern to us. Let's be clear: The Republicans group shares the stated goal of fighting online hate. Besides, who could be against such a project? But we are unanimous on one point, both in the Senate and in the National Assembly: the fight against the spread of hatred on the Internet, for the sake of its necessity, must not be waged at the cost of an infringement of freedom of expression. However, your text contains several risks. You want to give the major international platforms, the main players of the Net, the power to appreciate the nature of the content and to remove those described as hateful under penalty of being imposed heavy sanctions. However, there is a great risk that they will be censored preventively and massively, in order to escape the sanctions. It seems to us very dangerous to privatize censorship by entrusting private operators, most of whom are not European, with the task of regulating our most important fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. They will, in a way, become the police of thought and expression. It was also discussed at length in both the National Assembly and the Senate, both in public and in committee: the notion of hateful content is legally and intellectually blurred and unstable. It is therefore a source of dissatisfaction and frustration. It may be subject to caution, especially for the contents of the famous grey zone, which require interpretation because algorithms and moderation teams would not have clearly considered them illegal. Finally, as the Secretary of State mentioned, it is essential to work at European level. As European nations are working on a draft regulation, we run the risk of having to revise our Franco-French scheme. In this final stage of the discussion, we have tabled a few amendments as a baroud d'honneur and we hope to have time to defend them. With your permission, Mr. President, I will end with these few words. Alexis de Tocqueville, to whom I usually refer, wrote in 1840: "I would have, I think, loved freedom in all times; But I feel inclined to worship him in the time we are. » The time when we are, it is this state of health emergency, so special, which is undermining several public and individual freedoms to which we are attached. This moment saw the creation, just a few days ago, of a government page "Desinfox coronavirus" supposed to sort the right grain from the tare, which was fortunately removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u37	Mrs. Le Grip, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u38	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Our time is also that of the adoption of another bill, the one on the fight against the manipulation of information, called "anti-fake news law". In the time we are, we must therefore be as eye-browsful as we are vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u39	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u40	Pandemic and containment have demonstrated, if necessary, the importance of social networks in our lives, for the best and, often, for the worst. The worst is hate speech, insults, harassment. No one is spared and, among the many victims of violent content, I think first of all of the youngest, often fragile because powerless. Like many of you, I have read the concerns expressed by the Executive Director of the e-Enfance association and relayed by the media. It reports the explosion in the number of cyber-harassment cases during confinement, which was reflected in the significant increase in the number of calls received by the National Net Line teams Listen: up to 350 per week. In the context we know, the younger ones, especially young women and adolescent girls targeted by renenge porn – or porn disclosure – are even poorer than in normal times. Cut off from their school environment and from the possibility of confiding in friends, a teacher, an educator or any other adult who is not a parent, some have been locked up in dangerous silence. It is they that we must protect as a matter of priority. We need to legislate to protect them and allow them to evolve in online public space safely. We must, therefore, now ensure respect for the law on the Internet: that is the whole purpose of this text on which we have worked at length with our honourable senators. As I pointed out in January, the bill will allow us to act more effectively, on the one hand, by making the platforms more accountable, and on the other hand by giving the APF a leading role in regulation. Of course, there is much debate about such a text. The problems it addresses are complex and wide-ranging. But our priority is the right; I do not believe that the text we are looking at takes account of the technical nature of the problem. Prudent, it aims primarily to empower platforms: from the publication of hateful content to its withdrawal through its reporting, operators are responsible and obliged to act. Some consider that they will be given too much latitude. This is not the case, on the one hand, because the withdrawal of any publication will have to be reported to its author, who will then receive full information – date and time of the report, reason for the withdrawal and penalty incurred –; on the other hand, as any abusive reporting of content will be punished; Finally, because any content withdrawn because deemed unlawful must be kept in order to be made available to the judicial authority in the event of an investigation. I would also point out that, in addition to these provisions, the platforms will have to comply with the CSA's recommendations, which may impose financial penalties on operators in case of non-compliance. Again, it seems to me, we have set up a guard. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We are, like you, eager to protect Internet users. Like you, we want to make public space online a space of law, safe and accessible to all, a free space where everyone can express themselves without fear of censorship. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is convinced that the bill has struck a balance between the protection of our citizens, the empowerment of platforms and the preservation of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u42	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u43	As we approach the final reading of the text of the Senate, we must pay tribute to the work done, on all benches and in both assemblies, to try to find a viable solution to the difficult question before us: how can we counter the spread of hate speech on the Internet while respecting the freedoms to which we are all attached? Part of the opinion, and some of my colleagues, believes that it is worth losing and that we must first act on our consciences, encourage us to think and, if that is not enough, punish unacceptable statements and behaviour in court. No doubt, I agree, the essential thing is to raise awareness of these issues at an early age. Teacher training and education issues are therefore of paramount importance. On the other hand, we are warned of the risk of over-censorship linked to charging operators to track unacceptable statements on networks themselves. The Internet has driven a tremendous democratic movement by allowing the expression of currents of thought and opinions, and it is very difficult to touch them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u44	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u45	We are all committed to Article 11 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, which states that "free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the most valuable human rights". But we also know – and I am surprised that we do not recall it any more in this chamber – that freedom of expression is not infinite in our right. As early as 1881, the law regulated it by prohibiting insulting or defamatory statements and incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u46	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u47	Similarly, racist or homophobic words and writings have been punished since 1972. Our job is to effectively transpose these legislative measures on the Internet. It is not a question of inventing violations of freedom of expression, but of applying existing mechanisms to other media. Moreover, it seems to be discovered that a regulatory mission will be entrusted to the platforms. However, since the 2004 law on trust in the digital economy, platforms have been responsible for regulating the content they host. Again, the novelty is not to invent a device, but to empower the platforms so that they react more quickly. That is why the text provides for a financial penalty. The parliamentary shuttle made it possible to reach agreement on some important elements by defining the role of the various actors. The APF will have a regulatory role and justice will remain responsible for sanctioning illegal statements. She also clarified what is meant by the expression "hate speech" by referring to sections of the 1881 Act that already condemn certain words. What divides us is the amendment of the text, proposed by some – including our socialist senators' friends – that would make the withdrawal of content provisional, pending the judge's ruling. But the delays of justice being what they are, and given the multitude of words that circulate on the Internet, judges would not be able to follow the flow of requests. Asking operators to regulate before justice is seized seems to me a good method. The Socialist and related group is shared. We note that the text responds to the requests of the European Commission by incorporating several elements of the e-commerce directive, which is a step forward, but we remain divided. Some are more committed to freedom of expression, including that of unacceptable statements, pending a judge's ruling. Others feel that violent speech cannot be tolerated, especially when addressing more vulnerable groups of the population, such as young people. Finally, let us remember that the National Front arrived twice in the second round of presidential elections. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] Therefore, the majority of our group will abstain. But, considering that the issue is very important, I will vote in favour of the text in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u48	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u49	The challenge of new technologies always reveals an ambivalence between the benefits of progress and the risks of drift inherent in innovation. As legislators, we must continually adjust the balance between freedoms and abuses or circumventions. Indeed, while the Internet offers new freedoms, it must be noted that hate speech is exacerbated and not punished. On social media, attacks on others because of their origins, religion, sex or sexual orientation tend to become usual events, which everyone is confronted with. Our society cannot resolve to this fatality. The gaps in the legislative framework are real. Each of us, personally, intimately, as an individual or as a member of the social body, can be struck by this anonymous violence. In practice, however, few convictions have been handed down. Everything happens as if the internet was a sphere in which everything can be said, seen and shown. The comfort of anonymity only enhances the sense of immunity of those who engage in these acts of hatred. To this is added the power of social networks, which offer a multitude of supports and exponential virality: in the digital age, crows 2.0 fly in a squadron. The content must therefore be identified and removed quickly. It is time to make operators more accountable and to make sanctions effective; It is about protecting our fellow citizens from all forms of hate speech and acts. We welcome the work done by the Assembly and regret that there has been a continuing disagreement with the Senate regarding the offence of non-deprivation of hateful content. The majority of the IUD, Action and Independent Group voted in favour of the bill in previous readings, because we are convinced that it is aimed at the right objectives. We will do the same in final reading. It is necessary to be firmly armed legally in order to combat the drifts of the Net. We therefore welcome the obligation to withdraw hate content within 24 hours and the related sanctions, as well as all measures to enhance the effectiveness of the criminal response towards the perpetrators of hate content online. The creation of a specialised court will allow for a better understanding of this specific dispute. Pedagogy and prevention are equally important, as they guarantee the long-term effectiveness of the fight against hateful content. Younger people must be sensitized and educated. That is why we are convinced that it is essential to introduce training measures into the education code. The evolution of the bill during the parliamentary shuttle was rich. It is nevertheless important to remain humble: humble in the face of the magnitude of the phenomenon, humble in the face of its evolution. There is no simple and complete answer to find a perfect balance between the protection of individuals and the natural defence of freedom of opinion. I would like to point out that some of us are still sceptical about the answer to the problem of grey content. Distinguishing between lawful and illegal content is often easy, but not always. Therefore, some believe that the role of the judicial judge could have been better enshrined in a mechanism that involves one of our most fundamental freedoms. This point will justify certain abstentions in our group. The legislator's role will be to be vigilant with regard to respect for freedom of expression, i.e. the practical application of the bill. Platforms don't have to become Net gendarmes. We also hope that the High Council for Audiovisual Affairs will have the means to fulfil its new tasks. Finally, once the law has been passed at national level, we must not forget the European dimension of the subject. Being a motor, yes, but being isolated, no! We must therefore take into account the remarks made by the European Commission in its notification to France and build a genuine European public policy in the long term. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I will vote for this text; The vast majority of my group will also vote for it, and some will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u50	Excellent, Mr. Bournazel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u51	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u52	The Internet is, in essence, not only a privileged, unique space for the development of freedom of expression, but also the amplified vector of the darkest forms of expression of this freedom. The canvas has thus become an immense battlefield, which feeds on our emotions and impulses. It is also the space for all manipulations by States themselves. The safety of people and the protection of the weak, as well as the fight against what divides and leads to misunderstandings and violence, must therefore become our priorities. However, in order to achieve this objective, nothing must be granted to the fundamental freedoms of freedom of expression, protection of personal data or freedom to undertake. Reconciling these imperatives therefore requires us to propose and put in place balanced and efficient arrangements. However, if your proposal has changed significantly since it was submitted, you refuse to give up the unacceptable. On the one hand, you continue to denounce the ever-greater power taken by digital giants; on the other, you propose, through Article 1, to transfer to search engines and sharing platforms the power of the judge, the one who resides in the power of discretion and who participates in the elaboration of the jurisprudence. You agree to entrust this power without restraint to the platforms, by giving them a power of withdrawal within 24 hours of all the content they would have deemed manifestly illegal, by skillfully dressing this power with the word "accountability". [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] In addition, at the last moment, you have introduced an obligation to withdraw in one hour content that is described as terrorist, by the police alone, without recourse to the judge. While you were censored for the second time, two days ago, by the Constitutional Council in the place of the judge, which must be located upstream of the decisions depriving you of liberty and not downstream, you are making a third attempt – as if the priority should not be to give more human and financial means to justice to do its job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u54	The penalty for abuse of reporting that you propose to us to remedy the abuse of withdrawal is above all a display device: either it will be inoperative, or it will lead this time to self-censorship. On the other hand, what your bill has prompted is the announcement by Twitter of its own labeling of tweets spreading infox around the covid-19 to highlight them – a method that risks producing the opposite effect of the one that is desired. What your proposal has prompted is the creation by Facebook of what Mark Zuckerberg calls a "supervisory board", an entity that is so-called independent but dependent on Facebook, a sort of "superior court" that would have to "judge conflicts over content". In his discharge, it is only the tool necessary to implement this kind of bill if it is voted as it is. Indeed, the only way for Facebook to evolve, to date, between the millions of people who report content for withdrawal and those who dispute this withdrawal is, for the platform, to create a space for international jurisprudence itself. However, this international jurisprudence is by its essence impossible to conceive because of the sensitivities and conceptions so different that notions to which the law refers are made throughout the world. Whatever attempts are made to take account of specificities, such case law will strengthen the world view of those who dominate the world today – and to date, it is not Europeans. While your majority has only one word in their mouth, "sovereignty," what your bill reveals is our own impotence. It will lead to a pure and simple abandonment of "sovereignty". What is serious, moreover, is that you propose that we try, no matter what the cost, to stem the flow of hateful content while our duty is to attack us at the roots of evil. You do not propose any avenues which would help to go in the direction of history, that of European law which is inventing itself: slowing down virality, playing on the scheduling of content and promoting interoperability. All these leads, our group had proposed them to you from the first reading. You swept them away. Since the beginning of the crisis, you tell us that the next day will not be like the day before, you call for European cooperation and solidarity. And the first law that we have to pass at the beginning of the deconfinition is a potentially liberticide law, which proposes unilateral national measures on a subject that, in essence, crosses borders!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u56	In this way, you are making it difficult to put in place a truly effective regulation on the right scale, in complete contradiction with all your speeches. You are legislating without delay the very concrete and serious proposals of the European Commission, to which Thierry Breton, the European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Digital Affairs, is working through the Digital Services Act. You are legislating without delay the European regulation to combat online terrorist propaganda, which should soon come into being, and even though it is known that the European Parliament will require that only the judge or an independent administrative authority can decide to remove terrorist content. These many contradictions, which are in addition to all those which we have unfortunately seen in recent weeks, can only add confusion and fuel mistrust. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – MM. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Alexis Corbière also applaud]] You persist in wanting to offer us inefficient and potentially liberticide-free devices. These are the reasons why the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote resolutely against your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u57	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u58	This bill claims to fight hatred. However, as I pointed out earlier, it contains nothing on the concrete issue of combating daily discrimination or digital discrimination – on the contrary. The notion of hateful content on the Internet is by no means obvious. Are the words "Squire Your Pork" and "Men are Trash" an anti-masculin hate, is the word "Black Lives Matter" an anti-white hate speech? From my point of view, the answer is obviously no. These digital wordings allowed a speech that was – and remains – too often silenced through institutional media channels. They have enabled anti-discrimination groups to organize themselves, to set up proposed platforms for social justice and to denounce impunitys that are too long protected by the powers. However, these hashtags have very often been reported on platforms as hateful content – fortunately without consequence so far, that is until the vote of this text. At the same time, the Government, which appears to be a defender of discrimination, encourages the digital means that reinforce them. The GendNotes Decree of 20 February 2020 allows gendarmes to take photographs of any person suspected of having committed an offence and to record information about their religion, politics, sexuality or alleged racial origin, if they are judged by the judicial or administrative police absolutely necessary. Apart from the fact that it is not well known what this racial origin refers to, this application allows the security forces to collect sensitive information as a result of the historical oppressions suffered by the targeted groups, certainly as a preventive measure. The same applies to facial recognition experiments, which open Pandora's box to safe use even though it has been proven that they discriminate particularly against certain categories of people. Your majority is therefore doing a campaign to display anti-hate, while it itself reinforces the digital tools that allow discrimination. This bill purports to appease reports on the Internet by strengthening police control. By a last-minute amendment, the Government has included anti-terrorism provisions in the text and has obliged the platforms, after reporting by administrative authorities, including police officers, to delete the notified content within one hour. This is to give the police the power to censor content on the Internet in an express way. It should be recalled here, as noted by the specialized website Next INpact and La Quadrature du Net, that the police did not always make proportionate use of their power to report on the Internet. Reference is made, in early 2019, to the report made by the French police to Google about a caricature presenting Emmanuel Macron and his government as the dictator Pinochet and his relatives. This report, registered in the category of insult, xenophobic defamation or discrimination, has not been retained by Google for the time being, since the measures of this bill are not yet applicable. You claim to guarantee rights while in reality you replace the right to a public service of justice with the public service of private justice. In the procedure of censorship of content in the fight against terrorism, as in the fight against hatred, the judge of freedoms, here of freedom of expression, is ousted for the benefit of GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft. We refuse that private companies, whose economic model is based in particular on our expression, become trial judges: they do not offer the guarantees, they do not have the statutory obligations; They are not subject to the same control or ethics. In addition, the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs recalled, the current management of the pandemic that led to containment has benefited these platforms, these digital giants, because the confined people have more depended on virtual space for work, distraction, rest, purchase, forms of socialization. This situation, which benefits digital giants, makes it all the more problematic to grant them, by this law, additional power, which is also jurisdictional, whereas they have already given them a too important role in the day-to-day management of our lives. Finally, let us recall the many proposals put forward by the Group of the European People's Party: we have tabled amendments which concern in particular the fight against algorithmic biases or the introduction of interoperability, which are at the heart of the problem of the spread of hateful content. You rejected them all. That is why we are opposed and will continue to oppose this very problematic text, at best useless, but we fear it is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u59	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u60	"It is not to hold man by fear and make him belong to another, that the State is instituted; on the contrary, it is in order to free the individual from fear, so that he lives as safe as possible, that is to say to preserve as well as possible, without harm to others, his natural right to exist and to act. The State is established to ensure that men perform all their duties safely, that they use free reason, that they do not struggle with hatred, anger, or cunning, that they can stand each other without malice. The end of the state is therefore in reality freedom. » Three hundred and fifty years later, this thought of Spinoza could constitute our compass here and now. We could pass this piece of legislation, like many others, through this philosophical filter. Combating hatred on the Internet is part of a broader fight against racism, anti-Semitism, LGBTphobias, sexism, all forms of discrimination, and, ultimately, for the respect of the person in his humanity. These fights, we're all leading them. I would like to pay tribute here to the one who, since the beginning of his term of office, has committed himself energetically and sincerely to the fight against discrimination. Anyone who has worked with her in the preparation of this bill, I am the first, can testify to her commitment to the values we defend: tolerance, respect, fraternity. Thank you, rapporteur, dear Laetitia Avia, for defending, for the Republic on the move, this bill of which we are all very proud, the first piece of legislation outside the state of emergency. The symbol is strong, since it amounts to saying that the regulation of the internet is an indispensable prerequisite for the life in common – "without malice", "without hatred", said Spinoza – which resumes this week. Confident, we were happy to entertain ourselves on social networks. But this imprisonment has also exacerbated the impulses, with an even more free expression of conspiracy and hate speech. Some are looking for a scapegoat. Others, by their origin or sexual orientation, are victims. Many associations have alerted us: racism, homophobia and sexism have not experienced containment. Don't worry about our fight against hatred either. Arbitrating between freedom and security, inextricably linked, has always been a crucial issue. One's a priority, it hurts the other. It was in this balance that the 1881 Act was conceived. It is in this balance, always, that we propose to extend the application of this century-old law on freedom of expression to the major Internet platforms of the 21st century. Some, however, see it as a liberticide law. If it is true that it restricts certain freedoms that are widely granted on social networks, the freedom to insult, for example, then yes, this law reaffirms this prohibition. But it is above all a law of responsibility: the internet platforms have created a place of exchange where one insults because of the origins or sex. Their way of prioritizing information has consequences for the circulation of such insults. It is therefore up to them to put order, and they will be held responsible if they deliberately refuse to do so. But the goal is freedom. The text ensures the freedom of all, not just the most violent and extremist, who today wish to monopolize speech. It sets limits, but also safeguards, guaranteeing remedies, and offers support by the CSA. The Online Hate Observatory, which our group has proposed to create, will be the watchdog for the effectiveness of this text. This is the condition of its credibility in order to adapt to the rapid changes in usage. The Observatory will enable us to respond quickly, as well as to understand the sources of hate speech, which often constitute only an instrumentalisation of the crowds to try by all means of destabilization enterprises. The text we will be voting on today is only a stone in the fight against discrimination. It is the first on the regulation of large platforms, but it is only a stone. There is a long way to go before us, which will occupy our entire generation and perhaps the next generation, whose media education must be provided today. Because education is the key to prevention, to know how to behave and to know how to protect oneself. We had talked a lot from the first reading about the famous Internet license, which we believe is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u61	A recovery camp!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u62	Let's think!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u63	We strongly encourage the Government to develop it among all young people. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The stakes are the security of all. From self-censorship to suicide, the damage done deeply affects our fellow citizens. For without this security for all, there shall be no freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u64	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u65	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 2, 9, 11 and 16. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u66	It is intended, along with several colleagues in the Republican Group and I, to delete paragraphs 1 to 7 of Article 1. We take up an amendment that was defended by the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Mr Christophe-André Frassa, to remove the obligation to withdraw in one hour the contents that can be considered to be terrorism or abuse of children. This mechanism had been introduced into disaster by the Government by means of an amendment, without having been the subject of an in-depth and serene debate. We believe that it is legally fragile and unstable, which is why, in fact, this amendment was rejected in the Senate. We would therefore like it to be removed from Article 1, especially since, as some of our colleagues have said, the European regulation dealing with this subject is under discussion. The provision currently contained in Article 1 would probably not be compatible with the text of the future Regulation which should result from the work of the European co-legislators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u67	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u68	Mrs Avia, your bill is a real scare. While this is a grievous violation of freedom of expression, you are moving forward with the lightness and arrogance that now characterizes macronia. You organized the disappearance of the judge's role in protecting freedom of expression, which is one of the great freedoms of the French people. I would remind you that the European Court of Human Rights has indicated that information or ideas that come up against, shock or worry must be protected, precisely because they embody freedom of expression. Of course, we do not support in any way those who insult or defame. But there is already a very well-established law of 1881 on freedom of the press, which allows all victims of this type of act to turn to the judge for a ruling. But let's face it, unlike you, the judge has given a lot of thought and work on the matter! There is a huge case law – I can tell you that for a long time I have pleaded in this matter. Thus, with regard to incitement to hatred and racial discrimination, hundreds of decisions had been taken to refine the jurisprudence and to determine the conditions under which the judge could punish and convict someone who had abused freedom of expression. For your part, you simply transfer to the GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – the task of determining who will have the right to talk, what and how. In fact, you outsource censorship to the private sector – and I think it suits you very well. Madam, we will always fight and denounce this bill, because we know very well how it will be used. Large platforms don't want to bother: they'll censor everything that they think is problematic from close to far. Besides, you still haven't managed to tell us what hate content was...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u69	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u70	I'll do it. Let me...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u71	You have to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u72	Let me end with an example. Mrs Avia, if I call you Mrs Tartuffe, is this hateful content or a literary reference...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u74	...to your hypocrisy, the one that so often puts your actions and words in disagreement?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u75	It's pretty pitiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u76	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u77	Definitely, you have a problem with freedom, especially freedom of expression! Just a few days ago, the Government wanted to create a platform for "re-information", validation of information about the health crisis: just that! George Orwell imagined it, you did it: 1984 in 2020! Coronavirus has a good back: no, you don't like debates! You only love each other, we know something about it here. Today, rebel, if I may say: the bill to combat hateful content on the Internet is making its big comeback, in a state of health emergency. As if there were no other emergencies, exactly! We must call things by their name: this text is nothing but a genuine institutionalized censorship. But it's true, you're on the side of good, right, good feelings. So how dare you accuse yourself of calculations, of back-thinking or, worse, of bad thoughts? Moreover, by taking us through feelings, you are skillful: who would refuse to fight hate speech or insults based on origin, religion or sexual orientation? No one, of course! But should I remind you that there is justice for this, judges, courts? It seems to me foolish to entrust to private operators the role of a substitute police, because it is the door open to the arbitrariness and the absolute reign of this good-thinking that you perfectly embody. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] I spent much of my life working in a human rights organisation and then as a journalist. I would never have imagined that I would have to defend freedom of expression in this chamber! I have faced with potentates, dictators, despots; Today, here, I'd rather be in my place than in yours. Ladies and gentlemen, censors, good evening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u78	Your place in the far right, we leave it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u79	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u80	I have obviously tabled it for the same reasons as my colleagues. As I explained earlier, the bill will run counter to European law: even if it is not yet fully written, we know that Parliament will want to restore its place to the judge. I am one of those who denounced the government's website "Desinfox coronavirus" – I also asked the minister about it. Since then, the site has been removed: so much the better. The Constitutional Council has censored the law aimed at strengthening and guaranteeing the maintenance of public order during the demonstrations, known as the anti-casseurs law, the law extending the state of emergency and supplementing its provisions, but you persist in not wanting to place the judge in his right place. It's two hundred years of law that you're hurting! What I think is really serious is that I can't tell you whether you are doing it deliberately – which would indeed be very serious – or whether, as I asked yesterday in questions to the government, you are doing it because you don't know what else to do. I sincerely believe that this will become recurring here. It may be very easy here in the Assembly, but the French – you don't seem to realize that we're trying to make a voice – are increasingly observing it. We are trying to ensure the presence of compasses to respect the great fundamental principles. It is a shame that the next day is not the day you promised. Instead of reinventing yourself, you come back with exactly the same bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u81	What is the opinion of the committee on these four identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u82	Unfavorable opinion, since they aim to challenge the core of the text, which is to set performance obligations for platforms with regard to the moderation of manifestly illegal content. I think it is important to recall that we do not transfer absolutely any power to platforms, which can already withdraw content under a 2000 directive and a 2004 law. As you can see, they are doing so today only in the light of their general conditions of use and their own priorities. If, in the last two months, you have reported illegal content, you may have received a message indicating that the content in question would not be moderate because it is not considered a priority by the platform which, in this period, limits its moderation team. Is it normal that it is a platform subject to American law that decides what is important, what may or may not remain published? No. I believe that we must ensure the full implementation of the law – as you said, Mrs Le Pen, the 1881 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u83	This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u84	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The bill is therefore intended to remind platforms that since 2004, they have had an obligation to remove manifestly illegal content as defined by the 1881 Act. The judge is present today and the platforms are subject to the regime of responsibility, but how many convictions have been handed down? Zero, because the liability regime is inoperative! We are therefore building a system of operational responsibility that will allow us to record, in parallel with the great powers that these platforms hold – we cannot deny – the great responsibilities that they will have tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u85	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u87	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Government is not in favour of these deletion amendments. We must be well aware of what we are talking about here. Mrs Ménard, you are referring to institutionalized censorship, but we are talking about the withdrawal of content of a terrorist or child pornography nature! I am therefore surprised that you are using the term of institutionalized censorship, which seems inappropriate to me. I would remind you that the paragraphs you wish to delete are intended to make the current system more effective: we wish to reduce the deadline for the withdrawal of illegal content to one hour, which is now twenty-four hours. Mrs Dumas, you have referred to the link with the European regulation: if it has not yet been adopted, the obligation to withdraw within one hour is currently the subject of a consensus between the co-legislators. In a way, therefore, it is a support for us. Furthermore, I would like to point out that while the scheme is not limited to large operators alone, it is subject to safeguards, in particular in the event of failure to comply with the withdrawal obligation within one hour. Indeed, the offence will only be characterized in the event of intentional misconduct. If there is a case of force majeure or an insurmountable technical impossibility of removing content, actors – especially small digital players – cannot be penalised. Finally, if an operator considers that the administration has erred in requesting the withdrawal of content, the judge may intervene. [[The rapporteur applauds]] For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u88	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u89	The answer given at the moment by the Keeper of Seals is quite symbolic of the mentality of the majority: if one opposes your law, one is necessarily in favour of terrorist acts and hate speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u90	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u91	This is what is unbearable and what the French no longer support. In reality, this law will definitely transfer justice and the establishment of case law to GAFAs and other Internet platforms – and the rapporteur agrees! You put your finger in an absolutely delusional gear. It is not because disorder exists today that it must be institutionalised! [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Your text has nothing to do with the transfer of responsibilities under the 1881 Act. It is obvious that the Internet must be regulated and that we should all agree on a theme such as the fight against hatred and other horrors that can be seen on the Internet, but that is not the issue! We are talking here about the application of the law, and the one you are proposing will put an end to the judge's role. Seeing a keeper of the Seals smitten our democratic justice, inherited from the Enlightenment, is a real shame for our Republic! I'm telling you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you should look at yourself in an ice cream! The French judges will know what they owe you! This bill is an abomination that puts the finger in a gear: you entrust our justice to internet platforms, to financial powers in short. In fact – and I will conclude on this point – it is an old alliance: you are left with an economic monopoly, but you are a political one. That's what makes your majority and the whole macronie: the alliance of money and the ban on thinking! The French are tired of your oppression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u92	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u93	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We will obviously vote against these amendments – and we will be very honoured to do so, given the identity of their defenders. Mrs. Le Pen, any system must be regulated...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u94	By the judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u95	... in the most efficient way possible. That's just the efficiency we're looking for here. As Mrs La Garde des Seales has said, we cannot allow hate speech to proliferate on the networks of child pornography or the apology of terrorism by remaining totally powerless, as we are today. I add that the media have changed shape: on social networks, content can quickly become viral – this virtuality is even organized. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] We have therefore decided to act because we cannot accept that law and human life are trampled every day as they are today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u96	Let's delete the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u97	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u98	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have mentioned a possible confusion in the proposed amendments, and you are right: Mrs Ménard has indeed tabled an amendment which has not yet been called. But some Members may have less time to express themselves than others, and it is therefore understandable that they will benefit when they can.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u99	I didn't expect to have to defend freedom of expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u100	The irony is that you do it on the benches of the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u101	In any event, the rapporteur has made the same confusion as she has also referred to the withdrawals of content in 24 hours. Returning to these amendments, you have stated that there is a consensus, as it stands, on the withdrawal of illegal content within the hour. The bill has not yet been finally adopted, but I agree with you on this point. On the other hand, the European Parliament, even though it has not yet taken a formal decision on this issue, is not in favour of a mechanism which does not provide for intervention by the judge or an administrative authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u102	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u103	It cannot therefore be said that there is a European consensus on the place of the judge. For my part, I also consider that the provision that we are about to vote undermines the role of the judge. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] Finally, Mr Rebeyrotte, you dared to say that you would vote against these amendments because of the identity of the Members who defend them. Whatever their authors, these amendments have the right to be debated: it is democracy! We were all elected. As we look at a bill against hatred, that kind of speech is inappropriate. We are all representatives of the nation: if we want to defend these amendments, we have the right to do so. The fact that we defend them is really the worst reason you can invoke to call for their rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u104	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u105	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u106	You have understood our position: we are asking for the whole text to be rejected, which is why we have not tabled an amendment. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] I agree with Mrs Dumas. I said earlier that the urgency in our country was not to vote for this bill, which we have squandered, but that it is social. I was told that I did not want to fight racism and anti-Semitism. This argument is null and void, dishonoring: it degrades our parliamentary debates. Whatever the views of both sides, the criticism of this text deserves answers. That's not what I just heard. Again, the weakness of your answer is in the image of the weakness of your argumentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u108	When you leave this Chamber, you will be able to see many statues of great figures, among them Jean Sylvain Bailly, who declared, on 13 August 1789: "The publicity of political life is the safeguard of the people. He was not talking about commercial advertising, but about the right of citizens to know the content of the debates and the arguments exchanged. We are dealing here with fundamental things. Of course, some words may be intolerable, but it is up to the judge, not the police, to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u109	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u110	For example, the PKK – Kurdistan Workers' Party – is considered a terrorist organization when it has waged a glorious fight, which we all welcome, especially against Daesh. Should a site that would promote PKK fighters be censored by a police officer, not a judge, to respond to pressure from a lobby or the Turkish government? You can see that's absurd! All this still deserves some discernment and quality debates allowing us to appreciate things in their complexity. That's what we're telling you! Goddamn it, respect us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u111	Yes, respect us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u112	Stop using arguments that are feigned, stop insinuating that we would be for racism, for anti-Semitism and for Facebook to be a big sewer, or that we would do nothing against hate attacks! I do not list all the attacks that have been carried out on us, including by your supporters, including on my person, on my physique, on alleged acts of corruption. These attacks, these slanders, we suffer them every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u113	Thank you, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u114	I conclude, Mr. Chairman: we sometimes have the impression...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u115	Mr Corbière, I have given you the floor, like all the other Members. You will have the opportunity to repeat it on other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u116	I know a current majority movement in this country...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u117	Mr Corbière, I intend to enforce the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u118	Respect is for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u119	...and respect him myself. This is not a debate between you and me. My duty is to ensure that speaking times are respected so that all Members can speak. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me point out to you that by giving the floor to four speakers, I have gone beyond our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u120	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u121	I have done so to enable all those who wish to do so to contribute to this debate. I ask you to respect each other. We will apply the rules that some of you have voted on – others do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u122	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 4, 7 and 17. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u123	We wish to return to the wording voted by the Senate on the proposal of its rapporteur. I remind you that the amendments that we are defending here must not be struck by any infamy or shame because they are supported by a particular colleague: under the procedure applicable to final readings, the amendments that we are defending are amendments adopted by the Senate and rejected by the committee on the laws of our House. We therefore repeat an amendment defended in the Senate by Mr.Frassa aimed at changing the content of Article 1e r by favouring an obligation of means that would be incumbent on the platforms, under the control of the regulator. Again, we agree with the position of our colleagues in this chamber: a criminal sanctions system seems unbalanced to us with respect to the preservation of freedom of expression. We prefer to re-establish paragraph 9 in their proposed wording in order to fully and legally respect freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u124	I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u125	As you know, my position is contrary to that of my group: from the beginning, I have opposed this text. I will not repeat everything I have said in successive readings, but I will now simply insist on three points. The first point concerns this amendment, co-signed by my colleague Laurence Vichnievsky. We wish to revert to the Senate's proposal to introduce an obligation of means, not an obligation of result. As Mrs Dumas explained earlier, we are quite concerned about the contradiction that there may be in the future between this text and the one which the European Union will soon adopt. We would have liked to have adopted a compromise proposed, perhaps a little late, in this House at a previous reading: it was a question of inserting a sunset clause into the bill in order to start from scratch when the European text was adopted. This would allow us to bring ourselves into line with the latter, without overtransposition. We could then ask ourselves why the European legislator has asked such a question and set such a limit. However, as Article 1 states, there is a risk of overtransposition. The European Commission has given you some thought and some points remain outstanding. That is why I tabled this amendment, but none on the first part of the article. I would also like to refer to Article 1b(B), on which a number of amendments have been tabled – I did not want to add any more – and which deals with the defence of children and the obligation to inform their legal representatives. My third point concerns interoperability. For all these reasons, I now consider that we must move this text forward by replacing the obligation of result with an obligation of means. I have therefore tabled this amendment adopted by the Senate, which would be better suited to me than the current wording of paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u127	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u128	One of the arguments repeated on the benches of the majority is that there is a problem that needs to be addressed, and to welcome the effectiveness of the proposed solution. But precisely, I am not at all convinced of the efficiency of what you are proposing. It is true that there is a tendency within the majority to performative speech: because it has been said that a measure would be effective, it will certainly be. See you in a few months! With regard to the law against the manipulation of information, you explained to us that Article 1 was inescapable; But no one has used it in the European elections – because it is obviously impossible to apply! I therefore invite you to reflect on the efficiency of the measures you propose. Perhaps the current law is inadequate, but it will be very complicated to stem the flow of hate speech as you propose without calling into question freedom of expression. On several occasions, we have proposed that you act at European level and address the source of the problem, namely the virtuality of content. If a hate speech is shared only by three people, it will not do much harm to others. The danger of a content lies in its virality. Now, how do you attack virality? How do you talk about interoperability problems, the possibilities for users to evolve on different platforms? Of course, you address the issue of the transparency of algorithms, but you do not mention cognitive biases or their other forms. It is not a question of searching for the secrets of making these algorithms, but of questioning their purposes. All this can only be done at European level. If we were to go through a national law, we would have liked it to pave the way and go in that direction. I am therefore not convinced that your system is efficient, even if you do not stop repeating it. The future will tell us! Finally, your way of taking us hostage is a bit tiring. You did the same for the extension of the state of emergency, explaining to us that if we voted against it, it was that we objected to it. No one's fooled! When we are against something, it is because we refuse its terms. We have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u129	What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u130	Unfavorable. You're doubly right, Mrs. Dumas. On the one hand, it was on identical Amendments Nos 4, 7 and 17, and not on the one you have just defended, that I gave my opinion earlier. On the other hand, we will indeed see how things will work. We are building a new framework, which will have to prove its worth. We will also exercise our parliamentary control to ensure that these measures are fully effective. The opinion of the Council of State on the first version of this bill was very clear: it is necessary to distinguish between the obligations of means, which are administratively regulated, and the obligations of result, which can only be fully effective in the event of a crime. This March 2019 opinion – it's already old – gives us the way to build an efficient system. I have, of course, followed all the debates in the Senate. Our honourable senators have highlighted a difficulty in understanding and applying this offence. It was necessary to define an intentional nature: that is what we have done in this text. It was also necessary to determine the conditions under which the judge could be brought before us: we have therefore added express provisions, which almost fall within the scope of the talkable right, to ensure that the judge can be seized to request both the withdrawal of content and the immediate publication of the text in the event of an infringement of freedom of expression. We have also responded to the concerns of the Senate. [[Guillaume Gouffier-Cha applauds]] These identical amendments now propose that we revert to an obligation of means. Unfortunately, this is the status quo; I do not think that after two years of work on this subject and a year and a half of debate in this House, the status quo is a good option.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u131	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u132	This time, we are at the heart of the device – earlier, we were discussing things a little different. This bill intends to establish a general framework. I will not re-design this framework, because Cédric O and I have had the opportunity to do so in our introductory remarks: it is a matter of allowing content to be withdrawn within 24 hours, if it constitutes offences we know, listed in the 1881 law or in the Penal Code, and if it is manifestly unlawful, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. We have had lengthy debates on this subject: we are really talking about something we know. I will simply add two points, one on the place of the judge, the other on the European framework mentioned by Philippe Latomb. Some of you say that this bill transfers the powers of the judge to the platforms. That is not correct, because this role of platforms corresponds to the current state of law. Article 6 of the Digital Economy Confidence Act 2004 calls on platforms to remove illegal content in a timely manner. The effect of this bill will be to increase the role of the judge in the proceedings. It already has a role, with the intervention of the civil judge in case of abusive withdrawal, but in the device we are talking about today we are giving a new role to the judge: the offence of non-deprivation will allow him, for example, to reapprove this measure. We also create a specialized prosecutor's office, which will allow for faster, more consistent and more effective case law. Unlike what is said here, we are reintroducing the judge, and it is a precaution that is never useless. [[Ms. Florence Morlighem and Mr. Rémy Rebeyrotte applaud]] Finally, I would like to point out to Mr Latombe that, as a member of the European Council on Justice and Home Affairs, I can assess the importance of the bill on which we are working. I have only been asked a few times about the arrangements that we are going to make to determine how we can take into account the German experience and act within the European framework. Our position gives us a major asset, that of being at the forefront on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u133	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u134	You're talking about reintroduction of the judge. What we're asking is for him to intervene upstream. We do not want this law to institutionalize the role of the GAFA – even if you are right to recall that the judge has a role – and to give them definitive power. That's at stake! We all agree on this point and that is what makes this debate very unpleasant, as Mrs Dumas said: your reaction to our arguments means that the only legitimacy of your vote would be that we oppose this law. But millions of French people see what you're doing. Again: which society do we want to build tomorrow? We know that the GAFAs have considerable power. This Act does not change the general framework. In your opinion, it improves it, while for us it institutionalizes it, thus transferring to the GAFA an even greater power, which may be discretionary. What you do not see – and which could harm you, when you are in opposition –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u135	It's not tomorrow the day before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u136	Don't be too confident, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u137	...is that the alliance between states and financial or economic powers, without the intervention of an independent judge, endangers freedom of expression. You don't know the deals that may exist between a power and Facebook or Twitter, given their importance. This is what gives rise to an extreme danger for the future: indeed, you place freedom of expression from the outset in inferiority, by subcontracting. This alliance between governments and the GAFA is totally detrimental to the future of our societies. Ménard is right to speak of an Orwellian world, in which a wall is finally struck. And this alliance is at the expense of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u138	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u139	I'd like to go back to two notions. Contrary to the bill we are discussing today, the law against the manipulation of the so-called "fake news" information was useless and as a result, not very liberticide. But in this case, the risk of infringement of freedom of expression will be all the higher as the law will be effective. There is a major risk of efficiency in this regard, as you entrust power to the platforms. Minister, you are right to say that this bill provides for a little more intervention by the judge and slightly improves the situation. But what we're saying is that by doing this, you're definitely putting the judge after...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u140	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u141	...and even long after, given the delays in judgement. As we have seen with the so-called anti-casseurs law, the preventive provisions are immediate and the judgments arrive far too late, in this case when we have already stopped demonstrating!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u143	You indicate that abusive withdrawal of content may be punished, including a fine of up to 15,000 euros. But again, there is a self-censorship problem. I do not claim that the current situation is favourable or that you are not acting. But the content of your bill scares me very much. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again: by using the expression "obviously unlawful", you give the platforms the power to interpret what is known as a grey zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u144	It's good for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u145	Remember, Madam Minister, our very interesting debates in the Chamber on this subject. Everyone considers that what is clearly illegal is obvious. Many amendments had been tabled in that regard. What is manifestly unlawful in legal terms, however, is not obvious. This categorization requires effort, work; It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u146	Please conclude, Mrs. Dumas...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u147	Finally, the fact that we are seen as examples makes our actions even more serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u148	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u149	Minister, you explain with a soft voice – that's often your method – terrifying things. I would never have imagined that a minister of justice could say, as you did earlier, that we all know very well what a crime is. Do we all really know very well what a press offense is? I don't believe it! Manifest offences do not exist in press law and in the area of freedom of expression. You should know, you're the minister of justice. It would be necessary to decide what is, or is not, a defamation! However, a libel suit makes it possible to use the procedure of the offer of evidence: the truth of the defamatory facts can be proved. There is nothing like this in your procedure for deleting the text in 24 hours! You're saying that insult is an obvious crime. But is the term "fascist" an insult or defamation? The courts have cut themselves off for months and years to determine it: so it's not so obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u150	She's a talking specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u151	Clearly, Madam, refusing the judge a power in this matter and the ability to judge the infringement of what constitutes essential freedom, that of expressing one's opinions, is gravissimal. And you answer that there is no problem, and that in case of undue withdrawal, everyone will be able to bring to justice for a judge to order the publication, for example, of the tweet that had been deleted! You're making fun of the world! The current defamation or insult proceedings are tried after five years! I will quote my example...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u152	He's not the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u153	... to give more flesh to the debate: when I spoke of street prayers, I was pursued by the prosecutor's office – the previous one, but yours is part of its continuity. It was only five years later that I was released!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u154	Mrs. Le Pen, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u155	Five years later, my tweet would have been restored by telling me that I had the right to talk about street prayers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u156	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u157	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u158	We have a strange debate: for the past year, some have been camping on their positions without bothering to read the text. The granting of regulatory power to the GAFA is systematically denounced without any mention of the 2004 law, which does exist. Some say this power is going to be institutionalized... but we don't need to institutionalize what's in a law! Since the power to regulate was transferred to the GAFA in 2004, this has become official: it is neither a circular nor a council, it is the law. Some seem surprised today, but it's just a matter of confirming a law, which was passed in 2004! The only interesting element of this debate is the defence and illustration of the 1881 Act. I have had the opportunity to attend numerous trials under this law. These are often very fine trials. However, the provisions of this law on defamation and insult did not give rise to great enthusiasm on one side or on some benches in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u159	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u160	At least today, everyone agrees that this is a very beautiful law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u161	Well, let's see! Why don't you go and defend a case before the courts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u162	Since it is not called into question and is used for the definition of hate speech, I do not understand the opposition to this text. Justice does not disappear, it simply intervenes after the withdrawal of the content. Some say that no one will take justice for a tweet: it shows that in the opposite direction, it would not work either! It is best first to remove the content and then to take justice for what is worth it, for important cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u163	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u164	That's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u165	Mrs Le Pen, you do not have to comment on the speakers' comments. Please let the minister speak. I will give you the floor later if you so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u166	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I'm in danger of irritating Mrs. Le Pen, because I'm going to keep a soft voice. I believe that a political debate does not necessarily require raising the tone. We can exchange arguments calmly but firmly. I would like to respond in two respects to the comments you made, Mrs Le Pen. On the one hand, defamation – an example on which you have relied – does not fall within the scope of the offences covered by the text we are looking at. Indeed, it is complicated to state that defamation is manifestly unlawful. Unlike racial insult, therefore, it does not fall within the scope of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u167	I just wanted to know if it was an insult or a defamation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u168	On the other hand, contrary to what you have said, the judge can always be seized to appreciate the contentious nature of things. These two points seem important to me. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I will end by telling you that I don't have a prosecutor, but there are public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u169	You said "my prosecutors" on a radio show!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u170	Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u171	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It seems useful to me to look at the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights – ECHR. In the Delfi decision of 16 June 2015, it admits that States may require publishers of commercial websites to search for and censor the ostensibly illegal comments of Internet users without waiting for them to be reported. The Court states that it does not consider that the imposition of an obligation to remove comments constituting hate speech and incitement to violence from its website without delay after publication, which could be understood at first glance as clearly unlawful, constituted, in principle, disproportionate interference in the exercise by the latter of its freedom of expression. The ECHR is very clear on this subject and you can consult the case law provided in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u172	This has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u173	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 12 and 18. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u174	Before I introduce this amendment, I would like to come back quickly to what has just been said. Of course, we all agree when it comes to ostensibly illegal content, in the words of the European Court of Human Rights. What is problematic is what is said in the grey zone. It is on this point that we must be vigilant and not leave to the platforms the power to determine what illegal speech is. We have a thousand examples on this subject, but I believe that we will not understand and agree to hear the opposing arguments today. Amendment No. 12 is intended to delete paragraph 10 in order to exclude search engines from the scope of the proposed law. A search engine is not a social network; It is quite different, for many reasons. I will mention only the three that seem to me to be the most important. First, a search engine contributes to the visibility of websites but does not make these sites or their content directly public. A site is referenced in a search engine not at the request of its author, but automatically. Secondly, search engines do not store content: they refer to it and cannot technically benefit, like social networks, from the use of certain databases or fingerprints linked to illegal content. Finally, the last reason seems to me the most important: the technical characteristics of the search engines make it almost impossible to unindex a single precise hate speech – comment or image, on the page of a media, forum or site of participatory debates – without making inaccessible all the rest of the site and therefore all the other content which, on the other hand, is lawful. This Government loves Europe and quotes Germany at the slightest opportunity, I would add that Germany has decided to remove the search engines from the application of its law on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u175	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u176	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u177	My colleagues and I are resuming the same amendment adopted in the Senate – fortunately the Senate is here! Without repeating the arguments just put forward, I would point out that the responsibility of the hosting companies must be discussed in the context of the revision of the e-commerce directive, with third status envisaged for content hosting companies that are now irresponsible. If some are active, others, such as search engines, are not active and, as my colleague has shown very well, the possibility that they would be able to delete not only a content but an entire page, or even a website, is likely to undermine freedom of expression. Mrs Pau Langevin explained to us that if we had read the bill correctly, we would all agree! Our reading may be different, but everyone can understand that if 80% of the millions of content that are deleted by platforms every day is clearly illegal in terms of common sense, they are not necessarily illegal in terms of law. It is from this grey area, where the interpretations of the judge of the merits, of the appeal and of the Court of Cassation may differ, of which we are talking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u179	We have the right to point out, beyond the text of the bill itself, the problems that it may pose. We have the right to judge that we are wrong, not to explain to ourselves that we would be in favour of hatred!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u181	Unfavorable opinion. Search engines also have an activity of scheduling, accelerating or exposing hate content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u183	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u184	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u185	Of course, I support these amendments. What is extravagant in this debate is that, rather than seeking, as the Senate has done, ways to deal with a technological innovation that surprised us all, you prefer to have the Pavlovian reflex to short-circuit justice by giving exorbitant power to the platforms. National representation should consider this mode of operation. The difference in treatment that can be dealt with depending on whether one professes a particular political opinion or membership – I suppose you are aware that algorithms can slow down the spread of ideas according to these criteria – is indeed very shocking. In the long run, the danger of indirect censorship is extreme. I regret that you do not take the opportunity of this bill to move forward with the European bodies and the Senate, and that you prefer to abandon yourself and abandon what is most dear to us, which is the foundation of our democracy, to an opaque body to which you entrust extravagant power even though we should seek to control it, to supervise it. Our Parliament is light-years away from the extraordinary debates in the US Congress. National representation would honor the speeches of some American parliamentarians who seek to master these real powers of Facebook, Twitter and others. They are destroying everything we have fought for, whether we are on the left, on the right or elsewhere. Truly, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I cannot believe that supporting such a primary and dishonorable bill for our Parliament does not pose a problem of conscience to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u186	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u187	You tell us, Madam rapporteur, that search engines are also sequencing content, that they favour some of it... But we are precisely accusing you of not attacking this state of affairs! Virality, content scheduling, interoperability, transparency of algorithms: this is exactly what we are thinking about at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u189	It's the world of tomorrow! You are trying to stem this phenomenon downstream of the process when we should think about the regulation of the 21st century upstream. In any case, you are right: there are not enough human means to act downstream. But, for you, it's no big deal: just entrust this care to the platforms. It will certainly be effective, but it will also be liberticide since, as we keep explaining to you, the deletion of content by search engines may result in the deletion of a legitimate page or site. It's using a hammer, or worse, to crush a fly! It is a shame not to take the time to think, as my colleague Dupont-Aignan has just said, with the Senate and the European bodies instead of rushing to legislate, even as you highlight the need for solidarity at European level and consider that France can often be an example, a light for other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u190	I then have two amendments, Nos 19 and 20, which Mrs Frédérique Dumas can support in succession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u191	Amendment No. 19 is intended to introduce, as the Senate had proposed, a more flexible criterion for virality. It is a matter of drawing a little more precisely the regulation of tomorrow. As for Amendment No. 20, it reflects our willingness to be tailor-made, as the Senate had proposed. Indeed, content may also be deleted not because it is illegal, but because its author has decided to delete it, and it would be good to distinguish between these two cases. Indeed, I believe that the world of tomorrow will need effective but subtle measures to respect principles that hold us to heart, such as freedom of expression or recognition of the place and role of the judge, which have been the foundation of our democracy for two centuries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u193	It is against Amendment No 19, because we are here in the context of the review of the judge and not the review of the CSA. The same opinion on Amendment No 20. It is intended to be tailor-made: when the author of the content decides on himself to remove his tweet or post, there would be no obligation to mention the fact that the content was removed, unlike what would be expected when content was removed by the platform. I do not deny that such a mention could be useful, but we are at the final stage of reading the text. We have already worked extensively with the platforms to ensure that all these provisions will be operational, and we are only bringing in additional lines of development. We want this text to be implemented quickly enough and under these conditions I am rather unfavorable to anything that is not directly useful and is likely to be superfetal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u195	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u196	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u197	Amendment No 20 is not intended to inform the withdrawal of any content; it aims to clarify in the message replacing hate content that it has been deleted by the platform "because of its illegal nature".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u198	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 3, 21 and 23. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u199	I had tabled this amendment with an excellent provision that had been introduced by the Senate before I knew that the rapporteur would table an identical amendment. The aim is to strictly regulate the arrangements for the preservation of content considered illegal, particularly temporal, in the event of a transfer to justice. We propose that a decree in the Conseil d'État, made after consultation with the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – fix the duration and other methods of preservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u200	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u201	Among the contributions of the bill is the specialisation of a jurisdiction and the creation of the Hate Observatory. In this context, it is important that hate content be retained for some time, particularly for research purposes. This should be done in a manner specified by order-in-council. The person who has suffered a violation of his integrity needs to know that the content in question will not completely disappear and will be able to be used in work and studies so that the situation he has experienced does not recur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u202	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u203	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u204	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u205	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u206	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u207	By recognizing that associations have a specific interest in taking action to prosecute offences as a civil party, article 1, paragraph 17, gives them a totally exorbitant power, whose activity of the 17th Chamber of the Court of Grand Instance of Paris provides examples every day. Sometimes one wonders what the real activity of these associations is, apart from making trials, de facto establishing themselves as judges and holders of the values of the Good. I had tabled amendments at previous readings to better regulate the action of these associations, but unfortunately, as part of this final reading, I can only repeat the Senate amendment calling for the deletion of paragraph 17. These associations often make these legal actions their business, simply defending the established order, while showing themselves as defenders of freedom of expression, of which they are in fact often the worst enemies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u209	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Unfavorable opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work of all these associations that defend the rights of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u211	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u212	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u213	The period of confinement that our country has just passed has revealed in a staggering way a reality that we have long been aware of: violence no longer stops at physical borders; She invaded social networks. When writings are violent, hateful, the consequences can be dramatic for our children, driven to the loss of self-confidence or even suicide. We have an obligation to act. As we know, 22% of young people between the ages of 18 and 24 say they have been the target of online harassment; 55% of students – more than one in two! – in situations of school harassment are affected by cyberviolence. These figures, which are already alarming, have progressed and exploded over the past two months. Today, we are faced with a reality: school harassment no longer stops at school gates. He pursues the children at home, making them lose foot in what should be for them the safest space, their space of freedom, their escape. This bill is one of the responses to this large-scale phenomenon. Beyond the valuable tool for preventing harassment, which is the obligation of platforms to remove hate content within 24 hours, it is the engagement of civil society actors that is strengthened. The role of child protection associations, which I in turn welcome, is enshrined here: if they have been established for at least five years, they can be seized by a minor and exercise the latter's right to demand the withdrawal of the content in question from the platform. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] More than ever, it is in connection with the actors on the ground, who are engaged in reconstruction work with the victims of harassment and their families, that we must work. Today we must act to protect our children and society from these new forms of violence. This paragraph can certainly be amended, as my colleague Caroline Abadie will propose, but it should not be deleted under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u214	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 10. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u215	This amendment by our colleague Frédéric Reiss to Rule 1 ter B takes up an amendment tabled at first reading in the Senate by the rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, Christophe-André Frassa, and aims to reserve to associations recognized as being of public utility the possibility of notifying hateful content when they are seized by a minor. Because they are among the most active users of social networks, minors are particularly vulnerable to cyberviolence and more generally to illegal content. Article 1b(b) of the draft law provides for the possibility for child protection associations to notify hate material when it is seized by a minor. As a minimum of seriousness, the criterion of recognition of public utility should ensure, on the one hand, the quality of the care of minors in the context of alerts to platforms for the acts of which they are victims, and, on the other hand, to reduce the risk of over-notification or undue notification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u216	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u217	Article 1 ter B, added at first reading by the La République en marche group, provides associations with the opportunity to notify the hate content of which they are seized by minors. This prerogative has been regulated since it is limited to associations declared for at least five years on the date of the facts and whose statutory purpose includes the protection of children. In a new reading, we rejected the possibility of limiting it to recognized associations of public utility in order not to reduce the scope of the scheme. However, after an in-depth examination, it appears that there are enough of these associations to ensure that the measure remains effective – we have already identified more than 20 of them. Our amendment therefore seeks to finally adopt this criterion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u219	This provision has created some confusion as to the role reserved by the proposed law for associations. There are, in reality, two different provisions: the one we spoke about earlier, which allows any association to report hateful content and to become a civil party; and that which specifically concerns the protection of minors and which allows child protection associations, and only for them, to act on behalf of minors, indicating the content which is aimed at them and initiating legal proceedings in order to keep their data. This second provision must be applied in accordance with the best interests of the child and, since the association acts on behalf of the minor, must inform its parents of the action taken. Voices have spoken out to denounce, for example, the risk of outing, that is, the revelation of a child's homosexuality to his or her parents against his or her will. I will reply to them that, on the one hand, the child mandates the association to act on its behalf and is thinking with it about the modalities of informing its parents – associations have the experience of this – and, on the other hand, the associations concerned are only child protection associations – in other words, associations such as Urgence Homophobia and Stop Homophobia, which do fabulous work, are excluded from the scheme. However, we have heard the need for closer supervision of the measure. I therefore express an opinion in favour of these amendments, which limit the provision to a handful of associations, those recognized as being of public interest. They are subject to more control, so that they can be better accompanied by the modalities in which they should or should not apply to parents, depending on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u221	I couldn't say better. I would simply add that the provision provides a complementary means of combating hateful content for the benefit of minors, and that the duty to inform parents is not absolute, since associations must act in the best interests of the child. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u222	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u223	Let me quote the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 1b(B): "The association shall inform the minor and, in a manner appropriate to the interests of the child, its legal representatives of such notification. The same amendments are intended, in particular, to add "superior" after "interest", but in all cases an association seized by a minor for the removal of content is obliged to warn the legal representatives of the latter. Of course, the details of this information remain to be determined – will it be an appointment, an email, a phone call, what will be the words spoken? –, however, the obligation remains. The associations I contacted again last Sunday confirmed to me that this is how they understand the text. The Refuge, MAG Jeunes LGBT and Inter-LGBT are not second zone associations; They have lawyers. But they warn us against a risk of outing in the family sphere, even though violence is taking place there... I see you reacting, Madam rapporteur: I invite you to read the press release of the Inter-LGBT.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u224	These associations are not involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u225	Yes, they are! The Refuge is obviously concerned. The risk of outing is real. If the sentence I have read to you, as it is written, allows an association not to inform the parents in case it would endanger the child, tell us clearly! But that is not what the lawyers say or what we are a certain number of people to think about. In our view, all that is related to the modalities – in particular the words "adapted to the best interests of the child" – is only about how the parents will be informed and does not in any way go back to the obligation, enshrined in the text, to inform them. It then seems obvious that parents contacted by an association whose name contains the word "homosexuality" or "LGBT", such as Grenoble Pride LGBT, will know that their child has appealed to an LGBT association. There's a risk of outlawing. Today, when a young person does not want his parents to know, he asks for this type of association. With this provision, there is therefore a risk that children may turn away from associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u227	There is an obvious counter-example with regard to child sexuality: nurses can prescribe emergency contraception without informing parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u228	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u229	[[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] So that's not a problem! In some cases, it is in the best interests of the child that the parents are not informed. By keeping the text in its current form, by playing only on the "how" of the information of the parents, you are not doing everything it takes to ensure the protection of these children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u230	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 5, 8 and 22. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u231	We are very keen on this amendment on interoperability between platforms. It was tabled in the Senate by rapporteur Christophe-André Frassa, adopted at first reading, before the provision was deleted in the Assembly. For our part, we believe that it is essential to revisit the concept of interoperability in order to promote the development of common technical standards between platforms. This is the subject of the amendment, which incorporates a recommendation of the Senate Committee of Inquiry on Digital Sovereignty, which is itself supported by several professional digital organisations, associations, hosting companies and other actors. Interoperability is an extremely interesting tool for starting to emerge from the dominant model of the attention economy. It would allow some victims to take refuge on platforms with different moderation policies. This would be a first step towards the emergence of a more ethical digital sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u232	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u233	As I said earlier, interoperability is one of the three important issues we are addressing today. It is all the more so as we will soon be discussing, at least I hope, an application whose operation is based exclusively on it. Interoperability is also the most obvious way to reduce the digital sovereignty of GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft – and to build our digital sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u235	During the discussion of the bill at first reading, this issue had been evacuated on the grounds that it was out of the question. The Secretary of State then proposed that we speak about it later. Perhaps the time has come thanks to this amendment. This is a lukewarm version of what we had defended during the first two readings of the text: while we wanted to make it mandatory, this time we only propose that the regulator encourage interoperability in order to show the GAFAM in what way we are committed to. From this point of view, rejecting the amendment today would tend to lead them to believe that they might have totally won the game. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u236	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u237	I obviously agree with Philippe Latombe: from the first reading of the bill, I defended with him, as well as with Laure de La Raudière, measures to encourage interoperability. As he rightly pointed out, interoperability is a first step towards a little more sovereignty. As Europe itself has embarked on this path, we felt it would be useful to allow people to take refuge on more ethical platforms while continuing to interact with their contacts. At first reading, my colleague George Pau-Langevin explained to us that it was like proposing that a child who was a victim of harassment leave his institution. This is not entirely correct since what we are proposing today to the victim of hate on the internet is to change the platform while maintaining his contacts. Anyway, that's the meaning of history. It would be a shame if an amendment to encourage interoperability, a solution that we have been defending for over a year now, were not adopted today. The rapporteur defended an amendment against interoperability, explaining that this concept should be discussed at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u238	The argument serves in a variable way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u239	It is surprising that some articles – in this case Article 1 – are at European level and others are not! As for the Secretary of State, he spoke with the actors in the sector about the possibility of a bill dealing with the subject at the national level, from a systemic point of view. This is where we are today. Is it because the Freedom and Territory Group has proposed this measure that it is struggling to be accepted? I believe, in any case, that history will make us right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u241	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u242	That's it! It's a little short!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u244	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u245	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u246	I regret that these amendments receive an unfavourable opinion: we are losing a good opportunity to better defend our indispensable legal sovereignty. These unfavorable opinions are in fact in the image of this text, which has perverted its beautiful idea of starting. It was indeed useful to seek to protect our society from the spread of hateful content. I even said, several months ago, in committee, that I approved the principle of the bill. Unfortunately, the text that we are going to reach in a few moments will simply lead to a reduction in freedom of expression. Yes, we need a reconquered digital sovereignty. For we have lost much of our industrial sovereignty – which has been a terrible example of the health crisis – to China in particular. We have also lost our legal sovereignty in many respects in favour of American law, which is required in many proceedings. Today, I am terrified by the digital powers that threaten us in their turn: they embody the model of a society that is not ours, that is not a society of freedom. Let's watch out for these drifts! Unfortunately, I fear that your text will favour them, and that is why I will oppose them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u247	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u248	Why reject these simple amendments, if not because you want only a small political law that will further hinder freedom of expression? This is in keeping with your way of thinking, which is also evidenced by your instructions to teachers to scrutinize students' thoughts and summon their parents, to doctors, paid for the act of supervision, to trace the lives of patients, or to the government website that designates good and bad press articles. You are a power in perdition that believes you can control and oversee, without tackling the root causes of problems. It's sad, and history will judge you severely for it. In the meantime, our freedoms will suffer and the judges, despite all their knowledge, will have to abandon the ground to a private jurisprudence, developed by Facebook or Twitter. You thus strengthen those you claim to submit to your mastery: it is a rare hypocrisy. Above all, this abandonment of sovereignty will have incalculable consequences for our country and for Europe. China is using the Internet to defend its particular regime, the United States has built empires through the GAFA, and you are giving up our most essential values in the name of the fight against hatred. What is happening in this House is extravagant! This resignation under the guise of good feelings is the negation of our role as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u249	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u250	In previous readings, we too have tabled amendments on interoperability, and we support those of our colleagues. The fact that no arguments are opposed to them, now and then, shows that the majority and the Government completely ignore the structural problem: if the Internet allows such a viral spread of the content targeted, it is because the digital economy is based, in its very structure, on the model of attention. The digital space is dominated by economic systems that promote the dissemination and dissemination of these content. You keep saying that we have already spent time discussing these issues, but this time has been much more useful in rewriting a poorly drafted text – we remember the rapporteur's many amendments – than in speaking about this essential aspect. To the tools of interoperability, only arguments of bad faith or evidence of a profound ignorance of the functioning of the Internet were opposed. And if the Secretary of State noted the relevance of such arrangements, he did not explain his refusal to introduce them into the law. It's a total resignation. The law will therefore have no effect on what you claim to want to fight, i.e. the dissemination and proliferation of hate content; On the other hand, it will strengthen some platforms rather than better regulate their power thanks to the tools offered here. Thus, your refusal signifies the announced failure of your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u251	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u252	Interoperability is an interesting concept, and our colleagues are right to want to introduce it into our positive law. It simply seems to me that it is not appropriate to do so in the context of this text. But, in substance, I agree that progress must be made in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u253	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u254	Without going back to interoperability, of which we have already discussed a great deal, I will only say my disappointment that Mr Ciotti does not want to vote on the text, he who tabled on 6 March 2019 a very interesting bill whose Article 1 requires the host to withdraw the contents within 24 hours and brings to 37.5 million euros the amount of the fine incurred by legal persons who do not comply with this obligation... Our proposal for a law fulfils your wish, my dear colleague – except that we did not go up to EUR 37.5 million, which would have been somewhat tricky with regard to respect for freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u255	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support Amendment No. 14 – and perhaps also No. 15?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u256	They do not really have the same purpose, but they are two coherent amendments. As you know, I am viscerally opposed to this dangerous and liberticide bill. In the face of a cruel lack of judicial means, you delegate the exercise of justice to private operators; In addition, you are entrusting the task of arbitrating the decisions of the platforms to an CSA far from being independent – I would remind you that its president is appointed by the President of the Republic – giving it a new exorbitant power. The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, which you probably do not consider to be a sulphurous body, has itself considered that "the extent of the administrative police powers thus entrusted to the CSA threatens to undermine the pluralism of the media, in a way that is less justified because the Penal Code already offers the means to prosecute acts that represent attacks on the fundamental interests of the nation". It's all said! I do not always agree with the CNCDH, but in this case it speaks of gold.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u258	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u260	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u261	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u262	I fully support Mrs Ménard's amendment and the comments she has just made. And since we are talking about the APF, which is supposed to ensure pluralism in the media, I would point out that, since the start of the state of emergency, the Government and the majority have benefited from 80 to 90 per cent of airtime, according to my calculations. Perhaps this augurs for what you want for the internet...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u263	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u264	We live in a multipolar world that we have all called for, but as the director of the French Institute of International Relations said this morning before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this world is not multilateral; In other words, dominant poles will face it. In this fight, Europe is not very well placed. In this context, putting international jurisprudence in the hands of digital giants is very problematic: it is a genuine abandonment of sovereignty. You yourself said at the beginning of the sitting, Madam rapporteur, that entrusting them with the reins would be catastrophic, but that is what you are doing! We will discuss this again, and we will see if, in the name of efficiency, we have not called into question, for the worst, models to which we are very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u265	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u266	Like the Senate's re-reading, it tends to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of section 1, whether it be the obligation of means or the obligation of result, until July 1. Indeed, this article is directly applicable in the version we voted for; There is reason to keep and leave a few weeks for the platforms to comply with their obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u267	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u268	I put to the vote the whole of the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on a new reading, as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u269	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-13-O1208.u270	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Draft law on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
