ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u2	We deal with the examination of the appropriations of the missions "Economy" and "Investments of the future" as well as the appropriations relating to the special accounts "International monetary agreements" and "Loans and advances to private individuals or bodies", then the appropriations of the mission "State financial commitments" and the appropriations relating to the special accounts "French participation in the debt relief of Greece", "State financial contributions" and "Advances to various State services or bodies managing public services" (No 3399, Annexes 15, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 44; No 3400, Volumes VIII, IX, X, XI and XII; No 3403, Volume VI). Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u3	We are studying the budget of the "Economy" mission. My colleague Valéria Faure-Muntian and I are special rapporteurs for programmes 134 "Business development and regulation" and 343 "Plan France very high-speed". This mission, like the budget for 2021 as a whole, is taking place, as we know, in a context of a health crisis, which causes some economic sectors to slow down or even stop. Today, more than ever, support for our businesses and job preservation must be our priority. This draft budget, as well as the three previous amending finance laws, proves that this is the case. Exemptions from charges, state-guaranteed loans, partial activity, sectoral support plans and the recovery plan are all examples of our full mobilization for our small and medium-sized enterprises – very small and small – throughout the country. The appropriations allocated to programme 134 "Business development and regulation" will reach EUR 1.168 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 1.176 billion in payment appropriations. This will increase by 9.52% and 8.92 per cent, respectively. This increase is mainly due to the increase in carbon compensation for the electro-intensive industries, which will increase from €280 million in 2020 to €403 million in 2021. It is also due to increased support for the development of postal, telecommunications and digital services, as well as the Autorité de la concurrence, the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse – ARCEP – and the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF. The programme 343, support for France's very high-speed plan, will be massively abounded, since 622 million euros of payment appropriations are proposed for 2021 compared to 440 million in 2020. This increase of 44% will support the operational phase of the projects concerned. Our mission has also been to study the financial assistance account "Loans and advances to private individuals or bodies", which was abounded this year by 500 million euros due to the health crisis. Although the recovery plan is the subject of a specific mission, it directly affects the policy that we have to study in our report on programme 134. We have therefore carefully examined the resources allocated to this mission, and we will also be vigilant about their implementation. We would like to welcome measures in favour of our industrial sector, in particular State support for investment. It is essential to allow the transformation of our industry. For example, aid to the automotive and aeronautics sectors, used extensively, has shown their effectiveness; the device allowed to intervene with the necessary speed. As a Member of Parliament for the Arve Valley, the capital of the mechanical industry and the cleavage industry, I appreciate the importance of these sectoral plans. Eleven first winners in my territory benefit from the automobile and aeronautics modernization fund; the future of these enterprises and, consequently, employment will be assured. We also welcome the creation of the "France Recovery" label, which aims to direct the savings of the French towards the support at the top of the balance sheet of small businesses. We encourage the Government to continue its reflections in order to expand this solidarity savings and improve its efficiency. I shall address two points before concluding. First, last year we reinstated the allocation to Bpifrance – Banque publique d'investissement – in the 134 programme as part of its bank loan guarantee activity. The 2021 Finance Bill provides for the transfer of this allocation to the "Relaunch Plan" mission. As in previous years, we believe that it should be maintained in part in the "Economy" mission. Secondly, in my capacity as Special Rapporteur and, above all, Member of Parliament for Mont Blanc, I would like to stress the importance of green recovery. EUR 30 billion, or one third of the recovery plan, is devoted to the ecological transition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commission]] As these comments are made, we propose that you adopt the appropriations for programs 134 and 343 as well as those for the financial assistance account "Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations". The Finance Committee adopted them on 22 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u4	Mr Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u5	The situation of French foreign trade is obviously worrying. The decline in our exports, due in particular to the aeronautics crisis, is expected to reach 18.5 per cent in 2020, 7 points higher than the decline in our imports. Our trade deficit, which has already increased by EUR 5 billion, is expected to increase by an additional EUR 10 billion to reach EUR 70 billion by the end of the year. This deterioration will also have direct consequences for public finances, since credit insurance managed by Bpifrance export insurance, a traditionally very crediting and highly profitable arrangement for the state, could be in deficit of several tens of millions of euros in 2021. In this context, Minister Delegate to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery – I have had the opportunity to tell Mr. The Mayor in committee – the export component of the recovery plan is welcome. As Special Rapporteur, I have been asking for years for EUR 200 million to be put on the table to boost and structure the public support for SMEs and TPEs for exports. However, the Government will allocate €247 million in payment appropriations over two years, of which €122 million in 2021. I would like to welcome this decision. Back from a swindle behind our borders, an idea that we heard a little in the spring, it is important to continue the accompanying effort of our companies in the conquest of export markets, because employment is based on this deployment. At the end of 2019, the trend was very positive. The setting up of the Team France export – TFE – was, in particular, very useful, from the point of view of all the players; I want to say hello to her. But containment has, of course, led to a very strong slowdown. The effort should therefore be maintained. That is the meaning of the export side of the recovery plan, which I support very clearly, although I sit on the benches of the opposition. I recall the three main tools offered by the recovery plan. I am thinking first of all of the export check, which will cost 33 million euros and will finance 15,000 services, including participations in fairs. We know that trade fairs are the main and priority tool used by SMEs and TPEs to address export in international markets. If the regions play the game – this is the case for a number of them, notably Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes – then it will become very easy and very inexpensive for SMEs and TPEs to participate in a fair. This measure will put us at the same level as Italy or Germany, which strongly support trade fairs for SMEs. As Special Rapporteur, I stress the need to compare our public export support arrangements with those of competing countries. I hope, Mr. Deputy Minister, that the administration will continue the benchmarking work it has undertaken in recent years. If we don't know what our competitors are doing, we'll just be less good than them! We must also measure and compare the efforts made by the various regional councils to support SMEs in export, in addition to the national scheme and the recovery plan implemented by the State. The second important measure is the VIE cheque – an international business volunteer – which will support the sending of young people abroad by 5,000 euros. It will cost around EUR 17.4 million. Finally, it is planned to increase the budget for prospecting insurance by EUR 52 million, which will allow 1,500 prospecting insurances per year to be financed for three years, including "accompaniment prospecting insurance", a simplified and much more direct scheme to be offered to SMEs. This is still a very good way to support small businesses in exporting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight three points. First point: the effort I mentioned – 247 million over two years, of which 122 million in 2021 – was necessary and expected; It will be very useful, but it must be sustainable. We need to be aware that, particularly as a result of the reconfiguration, the fairs will not resume immediately and the companies will not immediately send young people to VIE abroad. As a result, the consumption of these credits will be lower or slower than expected. However, the Government's effort should not be eroded by the budgetary mechanisms that we know well here. These EUR 247 million should be maintained to ensure support for external trade. The budgetary effort for Bpifrance export insurance must also be maintained at the same level, so that it can finance, over and above the recovery plan, the prospecting insurance tool, in particular the accompanying prospecting insurance. Secondly, this budgetary effort must not take too long to the detriment of the means of external trade operators. Business France is currently making significant savings on its own funds and on its internal management, in order to cover the loss of revenue that it has suffered this year as a result of the confinement. This is not going to last forever. Generally speaking, Minister Delegate, you will have to ensure that our operators have the means to finance the policy they have committed to. I am thinking in particular of the chambers of commerce and industry, which have signed contracts with the State for objectives and means, including a very specific export component. In view of the decline in their revenues, we will have to pay close attention to their budgetary resources, so that they can maintain their efforts. Third and final point: there is an urgent need to respond to French chambers of commerce and industry abroad – I have written to you in this regard, Minister Delegate. These are private bodies, which are not governed by French law but by local law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u6	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Véronique Louwagie, alternate of Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, also applauds]] We have here a real armed arm, which prolongs the effort of the actors located in France. If we do not help them with a few million euros, we will lose a lot of efficiency in the markets concerned. I really want to get an answer on this, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, this Saturday's agenda is quite busy. I therefore invite every speaker to respect the time allotted to him/her. I, for my part, will endeavour to enforce it strictly. Mr Philippe Chassating, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u9	It is my responsibility to present to you the appropriations requested by the Government under programmes 220 and 305, which form the second part of the mission "Economy", and the financial assistance account "International Monetary Agreements". These two programmes cover the appropriations allocated, on the one hand, to the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – INSEE – and, on the other hand, to the Direction générale du trésor – DGT, which pays in particular to the Banque de France a compensation for the services performed on behalf of the State. Despite a complicated economic context, INSEE support for the 220 "Statistics and Economic Studies" programme is increasing slightly to EUR 435 million. INSEE's funding has been part of a multi-year funding agreement since last year, covering the period 2019-2022. This contract sets out a trajectory of credits and reductions in the number of FTEs – full-time equivalents – and offers INSEE real flexibility, for example by allowing it to organise the employment plan for the next three years as it wishes, in order to achieve the target set. The INSEE, whose essential work I welcome during the health crisis, will continue in 2021 to conduct its structuring projects, including the dematerialization of business and household surveys. Program 305 "Economic and Fiscal Strategy" relates to expenditures of the Treasury Branch. It is affected this year by a double measure of scope: the credits of the Directorate of Tax Law are no longer included, but it welcomes a new action, "Social Economy, Solidarity and Responsible". The creation of a State Secretariat responsible for this area has led to the transfer of this competence to DGT and to the hosting of the appropriations in programme 305. The appropriations requested in this finance bill amount to more than €421 million, up 4.35% from last year. This programme finances EUR 222 million for the repayment of certain services which the Banque de France serves on behalf of the State, compared with EUR 230 million last year. These missions include the secretariat of the over-indebtedness commission, for which EUR 132 million is foreseen. I welcome the joint work of the DGT and the Banque de France, which, once again, has led to a reduction in the cost of benefits, a fortiori, of the subsidy paid by the State. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention, Minister Delegate, to the issue of over-indebtedness. I welcome, of course, the various aids you have set up to deal with this crisis, but I believe that we must prepare for a mechanical increase in the number of cases of over-indebtedness. It is essential to develop mechanisms to act at all levels. There is a need to strengthen support, notably through budget advisory points, by proposing debt mediation and restructuring, and to popularise and simplify access to certain schemes, such as the grace period, to allow some households to take breaks when they encounter difficulties. At the same time, we must innovate, with new tools capable of helping households in difficulty, such as microcredit stability, or the creation of a solidarity fund, in order to reduce current burden debts directly attributable to the crisis. The stakes are high. I know you are sensitive to this question and would like to work with you on an answer in the coming weeks. With regard to the international treasure network, it has been experiencing a steady decline in its number of FTEs since 2009. We must keep in mind the essential role that this network plays in times of crisis and be vigilant about the consequences of these abolitions. I will conclude by referring to the "International Monetary Agreements" financial assistance account. It is intended to ensure the anchoring of the exchange rate parity of the CFA franc on the euro and unlimited convertibility. A security call is unlikely; No provision is made for 2021. None of the three programmes is the subject of an annual performance project. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I propose that you vote for the appropriations for programmes 220 and 305 proposed by the Government, as well as for the financial assistance account "International Monetary Agreements", which were adopted in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u10	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Deputy Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u11	I would first like to welcome the commitment of Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the "Investments of the Future" mission. It cannot be present this morning, because of the change of agenda, and deeply regrets it. The "Investments for the Future" mission will have EUR 16.6 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 3.98 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of almost EUR 2 billion over the appropriations for 2020, due in particular to the launch of the fourth part of the investment programme for the future – PIA4. Its architecture is different from that of the PIA3, which was structured in three axes, ranging from upstream to downstream of the value chain. The PIA4 will consist of two sections. The first will focus on investments targeted at strategic sectors; In particular, it will be covered by the new programme 424 "Financing strategic investments", with EUR 12.5 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 1.5 billion in payment appropriations. The second part will aim to finance the actors and structures of education, research and innovation on a sustainable basis; It will depend on the 425 programme "Structural financing of innovation ecosystems", with €4.1 billion in commitment authorisations and €562.5 million in payment appropriations. The aim is to invest a total of €20 billion in five years under this new IAP. Under the recovery plan, 55 per cent of the appropriations will be committed in two years. I am concerned about the confusion created by the Government between recovery and investment in the future. Indeed, IAPs are part of the long term. For the record – it is important to underline this – only half of the overall IAP envelope has been disbursed in ten years. We must avoid rushing the selection of projects because of the urgency imposed by the crisis. In this regard, the cardinal principle of the IAP must be excellence and not just revival. These additional investments are welcome. However, the mistakes made in previous projects have not disappeared: their readability is increasingly deteriorating; PIA3 appropriations have not been fully committed; Two new programmes now cover appropriations for the same purpose as those under IAP3. The monitoring of budget implementation and the evaluation of the IAP will only be more complex. As with the IAP3, all IAP4 commitment authorizations will be opened in 2021. However, the amount requested is less than EUR 20 billion. This difference is due to the fact that credits from the Innovation and Industry Fund, as well as credits from interest from non-consumable allocations inherited from IAP1 and 2, will abound the IAP4 envelope. In the end, the operation is like debudging, which I denounce all the more strongly as the revenues from the Innovation and Industry Fund – the IIF – are unstable. Contrary to what had been announced in the previous chapters, the General Secretariat for Investment indicated that investment in territorial development would be the subject of a more sustained effort. I regret, however, that this territorialization objective does not appear in the doctrine of the IAP4, defined by the provisions of section 55 of the Finance Bill, attached to the mission. An amendment tabled on the initiative of Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur, was adopted by the Finance Committee. It is intended to complement this doctrine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u13	The last paragraph of Article 55 provides for the deletion of the budgetary yellow for the major investment plan. Unlike the Government, which believes that the major investment plan is redundant with the stimulus plan, I believe that we should keep this annex. First, it allows to trace appropriations directly invested by ministries outside the "Relaunch Plan" mission; Secondly, if the benchmarks available to us change every two years, it becomes impossible for us to monitor the policy. The Finance Committee has also adopted an amendment tabled at the initiative of Marie-Christine Dalloz to retain this annex. I hope we will do the same in the sitting. The PIA3 is continuing its deployment. Since all the agreements have been signed with the operators, the rate of opening of payment appropriations is stable; It amounted to EUR 1.9 billion in 2021. New mechanisms have also been developed to respond to the challenges of the crisis. Thus, in the context of the 423 programme "Acceleration of the modernization of enterprises", the French Tech Sovereignty Fund is, in my view, an interesting tool I will carefully observe the use that will be made of it. In conclusion, I would point out that the Committee on Finance has delivered an opinion in favour of adopting the appropriations for the mission and its related article. Personally, I am also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u14	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u15	The mission "Financial Commitments of the State" concerns the debt burden, i.e. the third State budget, after those devoted to school education and defence. The examination of the appropriations for this mission rarely assembles the crowds on the benches of this assembly. It is, however, fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u17	Moreover, she was concerned by the French. This summer, on the occasion of a tour of my constituency, I met many of them who wondered about our ability to repay this debt, as well as the source of this massively arrived money on the markets. An interesting Elabe poll, commissioned by Les Échos, Radio Classique and the Institut Montaigne, was published this week. He explained that the level of public debt was more worrying for the French than their personal financial situation, although the concern about it had also increased, given the context. The effects of the health crisis are particularly clear on the "State Financial Commitments" mission. For the first time in a long time, the debt burden would increase by EUR 700 million to EUR 38 billion. This increase remains contained in view of the significant financing needs: €345 billion in 2020 and €282 billion in 2021, compared to €220 billion in 2019. The appropriations for the 114 "State Guarantee Calls" programme were up by more than 2500 % and stood at 2.5 billion euros in 2021, particularly as a result of the introduction of the EMP – a state-guaranteed loan. On the subject of debt, it appears from our hearings that we are faced with "radical uncertainty", to use a formula used by economist Jézabel Coupey-Soubeyran. Few people venture into long-term projections. For the time being, the announcement of the new containment has not disturbed markets, which remain relatively calm. The Christmas period could change the situation: the attitude of sovereign investors is difficult to predict in the event of an opportunity breakdown at the end of the year, followed by a return of severe measures, which would imply an even worse health situation. At this stage, it is important to rigorously respect the new phase of loose confinement, so that our hospitals resist and the circulation of the virus slows down, to allow our society and our economy to breathe, and to prevent them from completely suffocating. The issue of debt sustainability is likely to become increasingly important. Sooner or later, we will have to define a path of return to a more moderate level of public debt. The Government had announced the establishment of a working group to formulate proposals in that regard. I want to say hello to him. However, we believe that it is essential to involve national representation, in particular the finance commissioners. My interlocutors confirm to me the political and financial interest of containing the covid-19 debt: it is a question of ensuring transparency of the trajectory of public finances, while initiating a return to balance, so as not to weigh, in the short term, on the economy. A collective reflection must be made on the value of this proposal. If we were to move towards a model similar to that of the CADES – Social Debt Depreciation Fund – the main challenge will be to define the resource we will allocate to debt repayment. This is a good political debate for 2022! In addition to the quality of the management provided by Agence France Trésor, the facility we have at our disposal to finance our debt is directly linked to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank – ECB – which has launched a securities buyback programme for EUR 1350 billion. But we have become dependent on low rates, which allow us to finance our public spending with debt. On the other hand, we will have to pay attention to the effects of developments in US monetary policy, on which the European Central Bank could decide to align itself. Indeed, the Fed – the US Federal Reserve – seems to have recently changed its paradigm. Inflation would no longer be the enemy, replaced by too low consumption and sluggish investment. The Governing Council of the European Central Bank has not yet formally discussed the subject, but I am confident that it will do so in the context of the strategic review launched by Christine Lagarde. The debt holders would rather look with a good eye at the recovery plans which, like that of France, are oriented towards investment. They remain fond of our country's debt, whose signature is sought. I would like to point out that the share of debt held by national nationals remains stable, at the end of 2019 at 46.4%. Of the non-resident investors holding French debt, 50% are European, 13% are Asian and about 8% are American. As I said, the dramatic increase in state guarantee calls will also mark fiscal year 2021. This is mainly due to State-guaranteed loans. Finally, before concluding my speech, I would like to welcome the creation of the Green budget and the exceptional work done by the administration to achieve it, even if I have many comments to make on the methodology. The "Economy" mission, for example, is considered to be 100% neutral. I have serious doubts about this, but we will have an opportunity to discuss it more broadly in this House. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I invite you to vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u18	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u19	The report I am presenting today concerns two trust accounts – CAS – and a financial assistance account, which has no impact on the deficit and debt within the meaning of the Maastricht Treaty. The trust account for State financial participation consists of two programmes. Another, newly created – the 358 – and part of the "Relaunch Plan" mission, also relates to the financial support of companies. As I recall every year, we do not have a hold on this budget vehicle, because if we vote on the revenue and expenditure attached to it, the amount of the appropriations for this CAS remains purely indicative. Since its inception in 2006, we have been voting for approximately €5 billion in revenue and expenditure – this year, the figure will be higher – but these amounts are in fact fictitious, because the Government does not, and I understand, wish to communicate information to the markets on the divestitures it intends to carry out. In any event, for 2021, the Government is proposing EUR 12.8 billion in revenue, which is mainly from the state budget – EUR 11 billion. Indeed, in the PLFR2 for 2020, we voted for the allocation of €20 billion for the restructuring of a number of companies. From this envelope, 9 billion euros have already been consumed, so the rest will abound the trust account for 2021. Of the EUR 9 billion used in 2020, EUR 3 billion was spent on Air France, EUR 4 billion on SNCF, EUR 1 billion on EDF and EUR 150 million on aeronautics. As far as expenditure is concerned, the sum of EUR 13.3 billion is envisaged. These funds should be allocated, almost entirely, to the strengthening of the companies weakened by the crisis of the covid -19 – orientation to which I adhere. On the other hand, Mr Minister Delegate, I regret that the Government has not specified in the budget documents the criteria on which these EUR 13.3 billion for business support will be allocated. Will the decision be made according to the sectors of activity, or their location in the territory? Will the extent of the available own funds be decisive? I regret that we do not have this information, even if I renew my support for the overall objective of supporting companies weakened by the covid-19. Let me also point out that I do not understand why, of this EUR 13.3 billion envelope, EUR 100 million should be spent on the debt relief of France. I am not opposed to France's deleveraging, but this sum of EUR 100 million represents only 0.004% of our debt. I would therefore prefer it to be used to support SMEs or other companies, and I will present an amendment to that effect. In the spring of the evaluation, I will return to the role of the shareholder state, in particular with regard to the decisions relating to Engie or to the privatisation of the ADP group – Aéroports de Paris – which we managed to stop thanks to the joint initiative referendum and the 1.2 million French who supported it. But I would like to raise the issue of dividends from the securities that the State Equity Agency – EPA – owns and that are paid directly into the state budget. Since the creation of the EPA in 2006, the State has given it the sum of EUR 33.8 billion, but the theoretical total of dividends amounts to EUR 88.3 billion, which means that it is EUR 54.5 billion of revenue that has come to contribute to France's budgetary balance. For 2020, these dividends are expected to amount to EUR 300 million, while for 2021 they are expected to amount to EUR 1.1 billion. But, Mr. Deputy Minister, it seems to me that the Government has asked companies not to pay dividends during the crisis. So can you tell us what this EUR 1.1 billion corresponds to? The second special-purpose account of which I am Special Rapporteur is that of France's participation in the deleveraging of Greece. Indeed, for the record, Greece pays interest to the Bank of France, which we then hand over to it. However, as the agreement with Greece has not been fully respected, a European decision requires us to stop these surrenders. The French government is not being called into question here – it is only strictly implementing a European decision – but we are holding EUR 800 million for Greece in our coffers: I find it regrettable that we are improving our deficit somewhat on the back of this country. Finally, with regard to the financial assistance account "Advances to various government departments or agencies managing public services", it allows us to make advances on the appropriations we receive. It is abundant, each year, to the tune of about EUR 11 billion, which corresponds little or no to the common agricultural policy – 10 billion. However, in 2021, you plan to mobilise this account to allocate 760 million euros to the annex budget "Air control and operation" – BACEA – after having already credited it with very large sums in 2020. The Committee on Finance has given a favourable opinion on all the appropriations for these two trust accounts and this financial assistance account, despite my reservations about the cases "State financial contributions" and "Greece's debt relief", particularly on the use of EUR 13.3 billion for enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u20	Mrs Laure de La Raudière, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u21	The crisis of the covid-19 has had, and continues to have, very serious consequences for French foreign trade, especially since the sectors in which we are usually surplus – tourism, aeronautics and automobiles – are particularly vulnerable by the crisis. Thus, in the first quarter of 2020, French foreign trade, goods and services combined, recorded a record decline, more pronounced than in our European neighbours, of 20.7 % of exports and 15.1 % of imports compared to the first quarter of 2019. In this context of crisis, the resources allocated to support foreign trade, particularly in the government stimulus plan, are of particular importance. However, the appropriations provided for in Action 07 "International business development and attractiveness of the territory" of the programme 134 of the mission "Economy" are down by 2%, to EUR 140.2 million in commitment and payment appropriations. While this decrease in appropriations is mainly borne by Business France, it should be noted that the decrease in its subsidy for the year 2021, amounting to EUR 87.62 million, is in line with the path set out in the multi-annual contract of objectives and means concluded with the State for the period 2018-2022. The other important item of these appropriations concerns the allowance paid to Bpifrance export insurance, in respect of the management of guarantees made on behalf of the State. Stable in 2021, it will amount to 51.65 million euros. In addition to these appropriations, the very important resources foreseen for export under the recovery plan, amounting to € 247 million for the period 2020-2022, which is almost double what is spent on foreign trade each year. That is why I am expressing a favourable opinion on these appropriations for external trade; In fact, the Committee on Economic Affairs voted on them. In the context of my report for an opinion, I have examined several topics relating to State action to promote foreign trade, and I would like to mention two of them. First of all, I think we should welcome the first results of Team France export. Launched at the beginning of 2018, this reform is based on the regional and international reorganization and rationalization of the various mechanisms and actors contributing to the support of companies to export. It has enabled companies to have a single contact and a much more legible export journey compared to what previously existed. At the French level, Team France export one-stop shops have been created in all regions, bringing together international CCI collaborators, as well as Business France staff, to play on the complementarity of expertise. At the international level, single focal points have been designated. And the same information system federates these teams. Results were visible in the first year of the fiscal year. Indeed, in 2019, 12724 SMEs and ETIs were prepared or planned for export by Team France export, representing an increase of 23% compared to the previous year. The scheme now seems to be perfectly in the minds of the various organisations involved, be it CCI teams, Bpifrance, or Business France. On the other hand, the Team France investment, whose objective is to improve the detection and attraction of potential foreign investors in France, is not yet operational. The second topic that I wanted to raise this morning is free trade contracts, which often make the news of the media, with more or less biased presentations of their intrinsic interest. First of all, as regards CETA – the agreement with Canada – the balance sheet seems satisfactory, with an increase in French exports of 11% in 2019 to that country, which is far more than the increase in our imports. As for the imports of sensitive agricultural products, which had generated so much debate, they remain very limited, if not zero.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u23	The situation is different with regard to the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur – the Common Market of the South – which has not yet been ratified and against which France opposes. The President of the Republic has conditioned France's agreement to Brazil's compliance with the Paris climate agreements, which is far from the case. Moreover, on 18 September last, the Committee of Independent Experts, chaired by environmental economist Stefan Ambec, delivered alarming conclusions on the negative impact this free trade agreement would have on sustainable development and deforestation. Our ability to ensure compliance with our environmental and health standards on products that would be imported through this agreement is also questioned. The Government has therefore reiterated its opposition, and I know that we all agree with this position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u25	Please conclude, Madame de La Raudière.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u26	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. - Special Rapporteur Nicolas Forissier also applauds]] The European Commission has also continued its trade negotiations with many other States, but remains particularly vigilant and demanding with regard to the inclusion of guarantees for sustainable development, the protection of geographical indications and the preservation of sensitive agricultural sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u27	Mrs Annaïg Le Meur, alternate Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u28	I am pleased to present to you the report by Mrs Bessot Ballot, produced on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, on the social and solidarity economy – ESS. The ESS, representing 10% of GDP and 14% of private employment, is an opportunity for our economy and must now be put at the heart of an effective and inclusive economic recovery. Beyond the figures, the ESS shows a vision of the renewed economy, in which the company plays an active role for the city. It carries the DNA of companies and aims to take into account their economic, social and environmental impact. The related issues have led to a growing irrigation of our economy as a whole in the coming months and years. Before proceeding to the analysis of the amounts of the appropriations allocated to the ESS, I would like to say that we see a very marked improvement in the budget model for 2021. It is now included in the 305 "Economic and Fiscal Strategy" programme of the "Economy" mission and not in a programme of the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility". A considerable step is thus taken to improve the readability of public policy in favour of ESS, which goes hand in hand with the appointment of Olivia Gregoire as Secretary of State in charge of the social economy, solidarity and responsibility. The ESS is in good hands. With EUR 19.2 million planned, the appropriations are stable compared to last year and the momentum for ESS and social innovation continues. I would point out that these 19.2 million are far from representing the total effort made in the 2021 budget for ESS; This, which is deeply cross-cutting, receives additional funding through many other budget programmes, particularly in the areas of employment and associative life and within the framework of the recovery plan. In total, the Government is announcing €1.3 billion for ESS as part of the recovery. The 19.2 million dedicated specifically to ESS are divided into two pillars. The first pillar aims to promote the development of the sector and investment with social impact: 8.7 million are spent on it, and efforts are continuing to support socially innovative projects, as an increase in funding supports the financing of impact contracts. The second pillar focuses on local support schemes, DLAs, which will be abounded by the State to the tune of EUR 10.4 million. It is an essential grant to ensure the proper functioning of devices identified on the ground as an essential link to accompany and professionalise the structures of the ESS. I now turn to the thematic part of the report, in which we wanted to look at the role that ESS can play as a lever for the recovery of the economy. In fact, the ESS creates non-relocable jobs and promotes the long-term emergence of economically sustainable and socially innovative projects. It therefore has all the qualities to become a spearhead of the economy of the world after and to energize the territories, especially the most rural ones. The report identifies several levers for this purpose. First of all, we must mobilise public procurement as a lever for the development of ESS: with 10% of GDP, it has the potential to make significant use of the ESS sector and to encourage its change of scale. Yet, at the present time, and while the law offers many tools to guide public order, the results are more than mixed and the obligations set out in the Social and Solidarity Economy Act regarding the development of responsible schemes are very little respected. The report therefore makes proposals to make public buyers more aware of the responsible order. We must also support local initiatives that allow the dissemination of the ESS in the territories, with particular emphasis on the development of third places. Today, there are 1800, 46% outside the metropolises. The aim of this model is to develop considerably because it provides innovative responses to problems which are growing in importance, whether in the development of telework or in the pooling of the resources of SMEs and TPEs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and on the benches of the Commission]] Finally, we pay particular attention to the business and employment cooperatives – CAE – model, which should allow the revitalization of rural areas through social and solidarity entrepreneurship. They provide a very favourable framework for the development of entrepreneurship; entrepreneurs are both entrepreneurs and employees, and this original model has shown its resilience during the health crisis. The EACs are a particularly innovative model combining entrepreneurship and solidarity, which must eventually become a key tool to secure the paths of the self-employed and contribute to the revitalization of the territories. We have several proposals to encourage their development: to better communicate their existence and their role, to develop access to the zero-rate honour loan and to encourage a wealth of social capital for cooperatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u29	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u30	The current crisis is unprecedented and aeronautics alone accounts for 62% of job losses in industry since last January. I am referring here not only to the national flagships, the powerful donors of orders to the million jobs across Europe, but also to the myriad subcontractors who make up our industrial fabric, who provide for an innovation that makes France a leading country, and above all one of the last providers of jobs in areas of life where the net migration is negative. We expected answers from the national budget to match these issues. The press has been listing restructuring plans throughout the country for many months; TPEs and SMEs in the aeronautics sector are increasing the number of forums and calls for assistance. We therefore question the annual appropriations of the "Industry" programme as well as the short-term plan to support aeronautics for a green and competitive industry, known as the "Aero Plan". The people I received in the hearing alerted me to threatening developments that were already emerging for the sector before the crisis, with dangerous strategies of purchasing single source extra-Europeans from order-holders and uncovered incentives to relocate to their subcontractors. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery places relocation as one of his priorities, which we agree with, but which is difficult to translate into the state budget. Improvements are possible: it is aberrant, from our point of view, that the chips of an Airbus subcontractor that manufactures titanium parts are sent to the United States for recycling while companies can do so in our territory. We regret that there is no requirement in the budget for contractors to preserve national know-how and jobs. However, this is a legitimate expectation for the main beneficiaries of public support, since €2 billion has been committed, not to mention the massive and continuous investments of the State over the past 60 years, particularly in favour of customers such as Airbus. The company still paid 1.3 billion dividends to its shareholders for the 2018 fiscal year. Annual appropriations for competitiveness will grow in 2021. In concrete terms, this increase is reflected exclusively in the increase in carbon compensation; This is an important expenditure item for the State, without the incentive for companies to engage actively in the energy transition. All other actions are at best stabilized and the participation of the State in economic development actions continues the disengagement begun years ago under the pretext of the new responsibilities of the regions. The sums committed by the "Economy" mission virtually no longer contribute to the support of TPEs and SMEs via these budget lines. The aeronautics support plan is announced at EUR 15 billion. A loan of 7 billion is allocated to Air France so that the company ensures the purchase of sixty new A 220, for an amount of 4 billion; 3 billion are therefore entrusted to Air France to pass the crisis. Of the remaining $8 billion, six are cash advances and not funds as such. The funds actually made available for the sector thus amount to 2 billion: concrete aid is far less massive than that announced. Of these 2 billion, 1.5 billion is spent on the green plane, a formula that does not leave us to question. Is a hydrogen-powered aeroplane only conceivable by 2035, whereas hydrogen is currently produced by a more CO-emitting method than kerosene, and while high-pressure storage and hydrolysis production are neither competitive nor fully developed at this time for production of this magnitude? In addition, hydrogen refuelling and storage require the restructuring of all airports through which these aircraft will transit, and the generation of electricity required for electrolysis will be enormous: according to some researchers, the equivalent of sixteen nuclear reactors would be required for all aircraft landing or taking off at Charles de Gaulle Airport. Unless there is a significant surge in the production of renewable energy, we can reasonably fear that the energy needed for hydrogen is not really green, but low carbon, i.e. nuclear. Given the diversity of trajectories we are advocating for future technologies, all innovations developed by national companies must be supported. The practical implementation of the Aero Plan's measures is left to the hands of the major groups, which always seek to further reduce costs in order to redistribute surpluses to their shareholders, instead of a real industrial strategy dictated by the public authorities, which would nevertheless be necessary for ecological planning which is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u31	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u32	The year 2019 was marked by a certain embellishment for France's foreign trade. Indeed, our trade balance was improving by EUR 3.9 billion. In the first quarter of 2020, the number of exporters was also at its highest level in nearly 20 years, with more than 129,000 exporting companies. The creation of the Team France export and the one-stop shop has finally been realized, responding to an old demand from companies. We saw the first results of the reforms undertaken, especially since the beginning of the quinquennium, in favour of the competitiveness and internationalisation of our enterprises. The covid-19 epidemic stopped that momentum. For the whole year, the deficit in our trade balance for goods is expected to reach EUR 79 billion, compared with EUR 58.9 billion last year. There are, of course, nuances depending on the sector. Those who are most open to the international market, and whose weight is particularly important in our exports, such as aeronautics and automobiles, are the most affected; In the service sector, the tourism sector is particularly affected. While the Economic, Social and Financial Report foresees a rebound in French exports of 12.6% in 2021, it is obvious that any anticipation is uncertain because the resumption of growth and foreign trade will depend first and foremost on the evolution of the health crisis. Exports are particularly dependent on the effective opening of borders. Many other factors of uncertainty need to be taken into account, such as the agreement or, on the contrary, the no deal with the United Kingdom and the evolution of US trade policy in the coming months. While the health crisis has made the world economic war less perceptible, it is far from having disappeared. China comes out of the crisis sooner than we do and is already launching the offensive, while we would be wrong to think that the election of Joe Biden, if confirmed, would make the US less hard and intransigent towards Europeans. In this difficult context, the Government and all the actors involved in supporting the export sector have been fully mobilized since last spring. The Government has taken strong steps, including the State-guaranteed loan, the strengthening of the day before and of online information, and the maintenance of Bpifrance-managed prospecting insurance. All public and private actors have worked together to give exporters the tools to enable them not only to bounce back when the more normal operating conditions of the economy are restored, but also to adapt to background trends accelerated by the crisis, such as the use of digital technology. I would like to pay tribute here to the joint efforts of Bpifrance and Business France, the CCI network, the foreign trade advisers of France and the OSCI – international trade specialists –, the private export accompaniment operators. They have put in place countless webinars and online tools to guide companies by informing them about the situation of foreign markets in an unprecedented effort of joint reflection. They have greatly inspired the measures taken by the Government to support exporters; He is pleased that a minister has been in charge of this specific issue since the last overhaul and has vigorously promoted them. Export credits are dispersed between different missions, whose mission "Economy", and the recovery plan includes a specific export component that reinforces the resources already allocated in the other missions of the finance bill. It is this comprehensive strategy and the great relevance of the measures that I wish to mention here. All the stakeholders I have met to draft my budget opinion welcomed these steps towards the internationally committed TPEs, SMEs and ETIs. The €247 million export recovery plan offers them very tangible solutions, including more than €100 million to strengthen the resources of Business France, Bpifrance and the FASEP fund – funds to study and assist the private sector. Among the more concrete measures, I will mention the export cheque, which covers half of the accompanying services used by exporters, VIE cheques for international volunteers in companies or the introduction of a prospecting insurance accompanying product dedicated to smaller companies. Above all, these amounts will allow us to continue the extraordinary effort undertaken since this year to provide export operators and businesses with digital tools adapted to the context we know. These tools of great creativity replace the possibility, unfortunately always reduced, of moving in salons or on a prospecting mission: setting up online windows, meeting rooms with virtual buyers, or even increasing the use of webinars. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian also applauds]] The Finance Bill provides all the support that exporters expect, which is heavily affected by the global context. I therefore invite you, without reservation, to vote on the appropriations allocated to external trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u33	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u34	I'll be very brief. The repeated upheavals on the agenda of our Assembly this week have disrupted all groups, but also the Government, I imagine. It was in any case absolutely impossible for the members of the Democratic and Republican Left Group who followed this mission, Pierre Dharréville in particular, to be present this morning. Having had them on the phone, it is finally I who will tell you, briefly, in their opinion, even though I am a member of the Law Commission. This choice is mainly due to the fact that I reside in Île-de-France. Pierre Dharréville stressed the difficulty of analysing the appropriations for this mission, as it was built in mirror with the recovery plan. With regard to the recovery plan itself, we continue to strongly criticise the absence or weakness of the conditions for the allocation of aid or loans to enterprises in terms of investment, safeguard or job creation. If we give an unfavorable opinion on the appropriations for this mission, we note, however, the presence of two positive elements – we must recognise this: the maintenance of the tax resources allocated to chambers of commerce and industry, after several years of decline, and the strengthening of France's very high-speed plan. Although some colleagues whose constituencies are affected by the white areas are concerned that it is not enough to cover them, we welcome the increase in the budget for this plan. I apologise for this very succinct summary from my group's point of view – this is the first time since the beginning of the legislature that we find ourselves in this situation. At least I explained it with honesty and I passed on to you the essential elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u35	That's perfectly understandable, Mr. Little. Mr Damien Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u36	This 2021 finance bill and its "Economy" mission are part of a macro-economic context that has never been seen in France or elsewhere in the world. First of all, I would like to have a word for entrepreneurs, traders, artisans and self-employed people: yes, this second confinement is a hard blow. For having had exchanges with many of you in my constituency, I know your dismay, sometimes your anger. But know that your elected officials are here to help you, and will not let you down. Indeed, we provide massive economic support, even more powerful than at the time of the first confinement, thanks to the solidarity fund, the amount of which can reach 10000 euros per month, the exemptions from social contributions, loans guaranteed by the State or granted directly by it, partial unemployment, and soon the partial payment of your rents. If this short-term response, as we know, is vital, it must be combined with a long-term response. Our strategy is therefore twofold: to protect companies today, so that you can bounce back tomorrow. That is the ambition of the budget appropriations that we are looking at today. The "Economy" mission for the year 2021 is more than €2 billion in commitment authorisations, which increase by 8.5% compared to 2020, and 2.65 billion in payment appropriations, which increase by 13.7% compared to 2020. These credits are essential for the competitiveness of our businesses, especially the smallest. In the face of financing difficulties, we consolidate Bpifrance's loan guarantees for the creation, development and transmission of enterprises. In addition, we continue to strengthen support for international business development and export. When we emerge from this crisis, we will need our companies to go back to conquering the world, to create jobs in all our territories. We are also continuing the spread of broadband, to develop fiber everywhere in France by 2025. With confinement, we realize how essential the measure is. We are also developing the digitisation of small businesses, thanks to an envelope of 100 million euros in the recovery plan, because, as Bruno Le Maire pointed out a few days ago, only 32% of French TPEs have their own website – it's too little, especially at the time of home deliveries and withdrawal in store or click and collect, which meet customers' expectations. This statement on the nation's support for its economy would not be complete if we did not mention the reduction in production taxes, by EUR 10 billion, as of next January. It will be an extraordinary breath of oxygen, especially for the fabric of small businesses, which will allow them to create activity and employment. Imagine: 570,000 companies with less than 250 employees will be affected, with an average gain of 1700 euros per TPE and 13300 euros per SME. I come to a subject that is of particular interest to me, the industry. This is one of the biggest failures of public policy in 30 years: the nation has not sufficiently defended an industrial policy that allows us to remain at the forefront, which has cost us a great deal. In France, industry currently weighs just over 10% of GDP, while the European average is almost 20%. Behind these figures, let us never forget that there are jobs and families: 2 million industrial jobs have been lost since 1990. This represents half of the number of category A unemployed in this country! This lack of industrial policy must therefore be overcome; This is what we have been doing for the past three years, tirelessly, with great success, including an increase in the number of factories and industrial jobs since 2017. The France Recovery Plan, industrial relocations, support for strategic sectors and industry in the territories will allow us to speed up this policy and make this crisis an opportunity. France, ladies and gentlemen, has advantages. Even if nothing is ever perfect, let's stop lamenting. In times of crisis, we must remain optimistic, even if it is hard, and increase confidence, even if it is difficult. We must stand alongside the entrepreneurs who fight every day without counting and deserve that we do our utmost for them, for jobs and for France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For this reason, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of these appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, even if it is hard, even if we are focused on how to stop the health crisis, we must look far, and, in a policy of anticipation, prepare for the future. It is our vocation as elected officials, it is the ambition of this budget and it is the priority of the mission "Economy".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u37	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u38	We are looking at this budgetary mission in the wake of exchanges which were sometimes, let's say, dynamic, concerning the opening of local businesses. Minister Delegate, as our country is going through an unprecedented health and economic crisis, I regret that our exchanges have not allowed the Government to understand that we, the representatives of the nation, are here above all to bring to your attention the concerns and distress of the traders in our towns and villages. For the second time, France was confined last week. A second time, the French were called to stay at home and to telework. A second time, traders are forced to close a shop. And yet, the President of the Republic assured us that we would be ready in the event of a second wave! Unfortunately, today we are paying the price for the lack of preparation and anticipation. The spectre of economic bankruptcy is hovering above our heads, and the reality is much darker than the one your government suggests. He is constantly bragging about his economic policy and his support for business. Unfortunately, choices had to be made to preserve the health of the French. Even if we do not dispute the principle, we could have hoped for a fairer and more acceptable balance for all. Unfortunately, the state, because of its impreparation, is forced to improvisation and engages in an incoherent spiral of orders, controversies and disorder, which provokes confusion, incomprehension and, ultimately, the anger of our fellow citizens. We also note that the state has preferred to support our businesses with aid rather than help them to work. The consequences of this choice could be disastrous. After being very weakened by the first wave, 55% of SMEs fear that they will soon have to reduce the curtain permanently. Their bankruptcies will only have the effect of increasing the number of unemployed in France. I very much fear that my constituency in the Saumurois region, already heavily affected by unemployment, will be even more so in the coming weeks. In addition, the divide between urban and rural areas continues to widen. Local shops, the heart of towns and villages, are lost in the face of the incoherence of government announcements and, above all, in the face of the maquis, the administrative mille-feuille they generate. I was still yesterday with representatives of the building sector of my department, Maine-et-Loire. All our artisans agree that you need more order, clarity and readability in your proposals! Even if the financial means are obviously necessary, it is above all to be accompanied and guided without being assisted that entrepreneurs need. We are looking at this budget mission in continuity with that of the recovery plan. Recovery is indispensable, it is unquestionable. In a spirit of responsibility, the Republican Group has therefore voted in favour of this plan, but acknowledge that the measures are somewhat confusing. On 1 November, Toulouse entrepreneurs expressed their dismay: some claimed that they had not seen the colour of public aid promised by the State. For others, this aid will never come – I am thinking in particular of partial unemployment, provided only for companies with employees. What about companies that don't have one?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u40	What about the €100 million fund the Government is planning to help small businesses digitize? Can you assure that all traders will benefit from it? Deputy Minister, you're giving public money. Your intention is commendable, but are you sure that's enough? I don't think so. The budget lines of the "Economy" mission are essentially functional, and because of this, all economic policy levers have disappeared. So you have removed the FISAC – intervention fund for the protection of crafts and commerce – without offering compensation. Budget lines are devoted to digital means, an issue that I attach to my heart, as the elected member of a rural constituency. France's very high-speed plan aims to cover 100% of our territory by 2022. At two years of maturity, the bet is far from being won. A digital divide persists. Between the various departments, inequalities are visible. While the coverage rate for fibre is 100% in Paris, it is only 35% in Maine-et-Loire. In addition, white areas persist. At the time of the rise of telework, it is difficult to explain to the French that they have to stay at home to work, while they struggle to access the Internet! In conclusion, while it is necessary to examine the financial projections, it is essential above all to develop a genuine substantive strategy. Giving financial means is not enough,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Blin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u42	[["Very good! and applause from Mr Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur]] ...we need to provide leverage and lift the blockages for our companies that are responsible for the public financing of all our policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u43	I should like to remind you that the speakers have only five minutes of speaking time. Given the workload ahead of us today, it is preferable to scrupulously abide by this rule. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u44	Rarely will our assembly have had to consider a finance bill under such circumstances. The context is striking this morning, since we are debating budgetary appropriations for the economy, even though our economy is in a state of crisis and critical state due to the health crisis and the second confinement. The year 2020 will have been historic in many respects, and it is now our responsibility to strengthen the foundations of the coming year as best as possible. In this respect, the Group of the Democratic Movement (Modem) and Related Democrats defends a vision of the structured economy around three issues. First of all, unwavering support for our economy. Since the beginning of these combined crises, an array of exceptional aid has been put in place to support all economic sectors. The partial activity, the exemption from charges, the Solidarity Fund or the loans guaranteed by the State have allowed and still allow to safeguard the economic and industrial activities of our territories, as well as the jobs that go with them. In the budget we are discussing this morning, loans are being granted to companies to enable them to meet increasing cash flow needs. On behalf of my group, I welcome measures whose primary objective is not to add to the health problems the fear of bankruptcy for entrepreneurs and the anguish of unemployment and the difficult endings for employees. From now on, we must pilot and adjust these tools as closely as possible to the realities of the ground and the evolution of the crisis. We also need to innovate and transform certain emergency measures into medium- and long-term measures, in particular to preserve professional skills. I am thinking specifically of the partial activity scheme, which cannot last for several years because of its cost. However, by bringing partial activity closer to the lending of labour between enterprises, the State could take full responsibility for the wages of employees seconded to sectors defined as strategic. This would be particularly useful in the aviation sector – and I welcome the increase in the annex budget for air control and operation. Civil aviation is an essential sector of the French economy, with more than 1 million jobs and 90 billion euros in revenue in 2019. The collapse of air traffic is forcing us, and we must allow it to keep afloat while accelerating its decarbonisation objectives. This is the second pillar we are defending: the deep decarbonization of our economy. With the investment programme for the future, the Government has made a choice commensurate with the great challenges facing our country, the choice that we support to invest massively in all sectors of the future to help France become Europe's first major carbon-free economy. But beyond these massive but ad hoc investments, we must adapt all our legal and tax tools to enable our country to develop by adopting sustainable and fair growth. Today, for example, the State Participation Agency ensures that the value of the State's financial participations is increased, without necessarily having as a priority in its intervention logic the issues of the ecological and energy transition: this subject needs to be studied. Similarly, the fourth investment programme for the future is to be welcomed, although we still need to speed up disbursements to support innovative projects for transition in our territories more quickly. This is our third priority: strengthening the coherence between our economic support and land use policies. As we know, the unlimited metropolization of recent decades has led to deep territorial inequalities. Since the yellow vest crisis, we have changed this trend, strengthening our commitment to economic activity in our territories, especially in the most vulnerable rural areas. For this reason, the Central City Action programmes in favour of the medium-sized cities and small towns of tomorrow for cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, or the extension of the rural revitalization zones, can only win our support. For, in approaching the "Economy" mission this morning, we must remember first and foremost that one of the main axes of our action must be the revitalization of the city centres and city centres, which are indispensable prerequisites for a strong local and national economy. We therefore call for an increase in support through the current emergency arrangements, but also want to prepare for the post-crisis period by launching a large-scale consultation on French trade, which would allow, in particular, the recasting of old arrangements, such as that of the Fund for the Protection of Crafts and Commerce. [[Ms Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] Fully aware of our responsibilities during this crisis, we will vote in favour of these budgetary guidelines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u45	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u46	The "Economy" mission is obviously at the heart of the recovery: its readability, to be democratic, should be good. This is not the case, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u48	First of all, the Mission's budget model was revised for the third year in a row, with the elimination of five actions and the creation of three new ones, making comparisons from one fiscal year to another difficult. Similarly, you have chosen to create a "Relaunch Plan" mission, which also makes it difficult to read the evolution of appropriations. If I understand this last choice, which allows the recovery plan to be as operational as possible, in terms of readability, the account is not there, but it should also be part of your concerns. To illustrate this point, let me give you three figures. In the finance law for 2020, we had voted to open €2.36 billion in appropriations for the "Economy" mission, which has been increased to €3.5 billion through the various amending finance laws; However, the appropriations proposed for the mission "Economy" in 2021 amount to 2.6 billion euros. Therefore, a citizen who is not a specialist in budgetary mechanics will feel that this mission is on the decline, even though we know that this is not the case. Beyond this issue of posting, the comparison shows a relative stability of the Mission's appropriations, with two posts explaining most of the developments. The carbon compensation of the very electro-intensive sites, first of all, of which I recall that this is a measure voted in 2016 under the impulse of the then minister of the economy, Emmanuel Macron. As a result of the increase in the price of the tonne on the market, it increases mechanically from EUR 123 million to EUR 400.2 million, an increase of 278%, and almost EUR 300 million between the PLF for 2019 and the PLF for 2021. This very significant increase must lead us to question the relevance of this mechanism: are you considering, Mr.Minister Delegate, seeing it again? The question arises. The second programme that explains the evolution of the mission is programme 343, on the deployment of France's very high-speed plan, whose payment appropriations increase from 440 million to 622 million euros. This is consistent with the scheme for the disbursement of public initiative network projects, and we were pleased in the Finance Committee that an additional EUR 240 million of commitment authorisations had also been opened in the recovery plan. Nevertheless, we discovered on Thursday – hence the value of putting all the documents together – that in the fourth PLFR for 2020, you were planning to cancel €348 million of appropriations on the same programme. We have not seen, in the "Cohesion of Territories" mission, an amendment by the Government that would postpone these 348 million euros of unused appropriations to 2021, which means that you simply propose to cancel them. We hope that you will reintroduce these credits into the finance law for 2021 at second reading, because there is no reason to cancel them. Beyond these two rising posts, let me mention the declining posts, and first La Poste. We would like to know if you intend to compensate for the decrease in the La Poste Group's resources due to the compensation mechanism for the territorial mesh. Indeed, this mechanism of reduction mainly based on contributions on the added value of companies – CVAE – deprives the company this year of 65 million euros. It therefore seems to me, in the light of the commitments of the President of the Republic during the great national debate, that it would be important for these EUR 65 million to be sustainable in one way or another. Secondly, you are reducing the appropriations of the over-indebtedness committee secretariat by EUR 5 million, from EUR 137 million to EUR 132 million. This seems a little optimistic to me, despite the gains in productivity that I welcome, because it seems to me that over-indebtedness is likely to increase in our country. Finally, with regard to INSEE, which was the first to publish the figures of the decline in activity in April and of which I am a big fan – as you know – I do not understand the decrease in the number of staff of 67 FTEs. Of course, this is part of the three-year plan, but I do not fully agree with this point. In any event, the Socialist and related group will abstain from the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u49	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u50	Today we are looking at several special missions and accounts, including the appropriations of the "Economy" mission. This mission, in particular, aims to accompany the development of the activity and competitiveness of French companies, which are now very fragile. This mission therefore supports the recovery plan. If, in 2019 and early 2020, economic indicators were moving in the right direction and foresaw a healthier economic activity, the health crisis obviously destabilized our economy. Here I would like to commend all the emergency measures taken by the Government from the beginning of the epidemic to support our companies and their employees, and to strengthen them in the face of the second wave of the epidemic. This fiscal mission, linked to the recovery plan, must create an ecosystem that will promote the economic recovery of our businesses in the years to come. To do this, we must continue to invest in strategic sectors for businesses and territories, the first of which is naturally digital access. The containment and the increase in telework have shown the urgency to cover the entire territory in very high speed, not to mention the rural areas. The financing of France's very high-speed plan is ensured by the appropriations of the investment programme for the future and the action of the national fund for the digital society, but also by the appropriations allocated in programme 343, which provide the additional resources necessary to support the public initiative networks of the local authorities. I would remind you that the objective is twofold: to fully cover France in very high speed by 2022 and to ensure the deployment of fibre throughout the country by 2025. However, we are very concerned about the delays in this deployment, and we cannot accept these delays, which further widen the digital divide between our territories. I am too often questioned, in my constituency of La Marne, about the problems of access to the Internet and telephone network that people and especially businesses encounter, while it is an essential solution to help them – I also want to express my full solidarity to these entrepreneurs and traders who are currently living in a terrible period. Of course, the state is currently launching a call for projects to develop digital solutions to enable these companies to continue their business, but how can we do, when you are installed in a municipality without internet access worthy of the name?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u51	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u52	The State must assume its role as the land manager in order to control and ensure the deployment of digital technology everywhere; In this regard, I welcome the additional EUR 240 million set out in the Recovery Plan. In the face of the crisis, we must also rely on socially and economically innovative projects. The social and solidarity economy can thus be the lever for an inclusive recovery, creating new jobs. The companies of the ESS represent 2.4 million employees, and we welcome the Government's willingness to finance contracts with social impact: could you tell us, Mr.Minister Delegate, the terms of these calls for projects and the objectives of these contracts? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the "Investments for the Future" mission. This is an important support for the recovery plan. Of course, we need to prepare for the future by investing, and this is one of the objectives of the PIA4: it aims to accelerate innovation in all sectors, particularly in the energy transition, with green hydrogen, or by supporting the dynamism and attractiveness of France with the actors in education and research. Given the urgency of the current economic situation, does the Government intend to speed up the procedures for allocating the funds of this PIA4, bearing in mind that – Mrs Louwagie reminded us – such investments meet long-term ambitions, and that it takes an average of ten years to deploy an PIA? [[Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, Special Rapporteur, and Ms Laure de La Raudière, Draftswoman for opinion, applaud]] The Members of the Group of the European People's Party are fully aware that the appropriations for these various missions are necessary tools for our economy and for all our companies, and therefore for all French employees. That is why they will vote for the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u53	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u54	Generally, revenues from the "Government Financial Interests" trust account are derived from transfers of securities, shares or rights of corporations held by the Crown. This year, because of the covid -19, there are few dividends and no proceeds of disposal: a massive payment of the general budget of some €13 billion will be the main revenue. Of this EUR 13 billion, EUR 10 billion will be used to strengthen the resources of strategic companies deemed vulnerable due to the economic consequences of the crisis. We question the Government's lack of clarification of the criteria and conditions for receiving such support. We note, however, a certain return to the reason: the state spends only EUR 100 million on debt relief, compared with EUR 2 billion supplied by privatisation the previous year, even if these EUR 100 million would have been more useful elsewhere. We have no illusions: once the crisis is removed, the wrong decisions will return to the agenda. Despite the economic context, you have chosen not to upset the purpose of the programme and not to mention objectives that we consider to be priorities. For example, there should be no divestment of shares in strategic energy companies or in publicly profitable companies such as motorways. The performance indicators of this trust account are financial in nature only. We believe that other criteria such as loss of sovereignty or risks to users and the general interest should be taken into account. Moreover, the indicators chosen do not reflect the real level of performance: one of them, which presents the share of resources devoted to the debt-debt of the State and public administrations, is in our view a counter-indicator, because the resale of public participations for the purpose of deleveraging is an aberration. Privatisation of the ADP Group leads to a loss of sovereignty, an economic nonsense and a risk to the preservation of environmental interests. Moreover, since the opening of ADP's capital in 2005, the number of employees has been steadily decreasing: the company has abolished 1500 jobs in ten years, i.e. one in five jobs, while at the same time traffic has doubled. The share of wages in the wealth produced increased from 41% to 29%. The declines in staff necessarily degrade the quality of public service and the safety of travellers. The privatization of Engie, a strategic enterprise for the ecological transition, reduces the capacity of the state to plan. Investments in the renewable sector are likely to contract and tariffs are likely to rise in order to increase short-term profits. The collateral effect of the disengagement of the state in Engie is already felt with the sale of its shares in Suez to Veolia, the first fruits of a disastrous fusion for the general interest. The question of debt repayment will have to be quickly and seriously put on the table, especially after the disaster in Greece. These few examples show that you do not diverge from your narrow vision of the concept of strategic enterprise for the sovereignty of our country, which you limit to defence and nuclear. You prefer to run out of materials and encounter supply difficulties, as during the crisis of the covid -19, rather than nationalize essential French companies, such as Luxfer. It is not possible to mention all the programmes, so I will concentrate on the 869 "Loans to the concessionaire company of the express link between Paris and the airport Paris-Charles de Gaulle", which poses several problems. The CDG-Express project is a nonsense, as it will not benefit any commuter and will only serve a few rushed and wealthy travellers to earn a few minutes. Its prohibitive cost could have been used for the renovation of the RER B. The concessionaire, whose capital is mostly private, inherits the operation of this fast link for fifty years, without any safeguards on the royalties. However, the example of the concessions granted to motorway companies should have been kept in mind. Nor is the timing of repayment of the government loan to the company known. For all these reasons, the group of La France insoubted considers that the economic support policy is not up to the stakes and will not vote for the appropriations allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u55	We are done with the statements made by the representatives of the groups. The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u56	The appropriations for the "Economy", "Financial Commitments of the State", "Investments of the Future" and the special accounts that we submit to you today have been the subject of a very detailed and demanding examination of special rapporteurs and draftsmen. I thank them for the quality of their analysis, as well as the speakers in the groups for their statements. I would like to answer your questions, with our objectives on these missions. The first objective is, of course, to deal with the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The funds of the emergency plans and of France relaunch have already been examined by you, but, beyond that, all the traditional missions of the ministry are mobilized: the State provides massive financial support. As such, the most significant is programme 114, which covers calls for State guarantees. As the Special Rapporteur, Bénédicte Peyrol, noted, the programme's appropriations, if adopted, will increase from EUR 94 million in 2020 to EUR 2.5 billion in 2021. This is, of course, a considerable effort for public finances, justified by the commitments made by the Government to protect the financial situation of enterprises. We have put in place new and massive State guarantee schemes for all loans granted to accompany the financing of enterprises, EMPs and the strengthening of the public reinsurance scheme through credit insurance. Allow me, Mrs Blin, to remind you of the solidarity fund, the exemption from contributions and the partial activity in the area of business support. I know the difficulties and feelings of the small traders, but the aid from the solidarity fund has been increased, for a month, from 1500 euros to 10000 euros: 6 billion euros will be devoted to it in November.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u57	With the regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u58	No, ma'am. The regions will contribute €400 million when the state spends more than €9 billion this year on the solidarity fund. In addition, the partial activity will be covered at 100% until the end of the year and the exemption from contributions will be maintained. Even though I know that traders want to work, we are convinced that these unprecedented financial means will allow them to spend this difficult moment. The State's financial participation will also be mobilized to deal with the crisis. As part of the emergency plan, they benefited from an exceptional reinforcement through a dedicated programme, 358 with €20 billion. The aim is to support companies that are strategic and considered vulnerable. In this connection, I would like to respond to the inquiry by Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, on the payment of EUR 293 million in dividends from the Agency's portfolio of State participations in the general budget. This volume is compared to the €2.4 billion received in 2019, continuing the decline observed since 2017 and reflecting the exceptional consequences of the covid-19 crisis. In the face of the health crisis caused by the pandemic, companies in the EPA portfolio have had to adjust their dividend distribution to maintain their cash flow. The cancellation of dividends distributed in 2020 for 2019 involved more than 50% of companies in the SBF – Société des Bourse Françaises –120 index. We are mobilizing to support all companies. On export support, Special Rapporteur Nicolas Forissier, we will continue our action in the direction defined since 2017. Team France export is now the new non-financial support mechanism for French companies. The aim is to deploy a more efficient, inclusive and collaborative public export service, based on a revamped organisation and partnership of public and private actors, in France and abroad. We must capitalise on this tool in a context which makes it even more necessary, as Mrs Laure de La Raudière, draftswoman for an opinion, pointed out. You have also raised, Mr Special Rapporteur, the question of support for chambers of commerce and industry abroad. Our ambassadors and regional economic services pay particular attention to the upsurges in support of foreign trade abroad, led by France's foreign trade advisers, Business France and French chambers of commerce and industry abroad. The latter are eligible for support from associations of the French abroad, as long as their projects fall within the framework envisaged and the assistance provided to our compatriots is individual and concerns, for example, socio-economic integration. In addition, CCI France international, head of the network of French chambers of commerce and industry abroad, has benefited from a PGE to enable it to accompany, at its convenience, the 124 French chambers abroad. The activities of CCI France international are accessible, subject to reference as an approved operator, to French companies which will benefit from the export recovery cheque. Several guarantees will ensure equal treatment between all providers. Chambers and specialized operators of international trade will generally benefit from export recovery operations, through state support for the support of French companies to export. This dynamic should contribute to the recovery of their financial situation. The second objective is to maintain our priorities despite the context we are going through. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have raised concerns about the sustainability of the policies that the recovery plan has strengthened in an exceptional way. I would like to reassure you of the Government's determination to continue the structural transformation of our economy. The crisis reinforces the validity of our actions to support businesses and modernise the economy. In this regard, the appropriations for the mission "Economy" increased by 21 per cent, excluding Title 2. This includes an extension of 182 million euros for France's very high-speed plan and 79 million euros for the various business support mechanisms, including carbon compensation. On carbon compensation, I would like to reply to the Special Rapporteur, Bénédicte Peyrol: in the report on the environmental impact of the state budget, annexed to the PLF for 2021, a neutral assessment of the reduced rates for electricity consumed by the electro-intensive industries was adopted for several reasons. First of all, the relative reduction in the price of electricity is part of the policy of encouraging the electrification of industrial processes, which, thanks to the electricity mix available to France, reduces the carbon footprint compared to the use of fossil fuels. It also remains an incentive for energy sobriety, since the level of taxation is not zero. In the absence of mechanisms to reduce the cost of electricity, which is one of the main factors contributing to the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industries, production could be relocated to countries where electricity is cheaper and, in general, more carbon-intensive. This reasoning is based on the consideration of the indirect effects of the measure. In the same way, carbon compensation for companies exposed to carbon leakage limits the risk of relocation to a country where the energy mix is more carbonised than in France and where environmental standards could be more loose, which would ultimately lead to a negative impact on the environment. New priority integrated into the scope of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery: the mission "Economy" now welcomes the economy, social, solidarity and responsible, in a logic of coherence that brings together, around the Secretary of State Olivia Gregoire, all the means devolved to this public policy. Finally, the modernization of our economy requires its digital transformation. As the Special Rapporteurs Mrs Faure-Muntian and Mr Roseren rightly pointed out, the crisis has highlighted the need to accelerate the digital transformation of TPEs and SMEs, as well as the need to deploy new technological solutions that have become indispensable for their economic survival. The second containment that we have had to put in place puts even more emphasis on the urgent need to digitize small traders, as well as craft and liberal companies. We will deploy an emergency plan to digitize businesses, accelerating the mobilization of credits from the stimulus plan to the tune of 100 million, as announced by Bruno Le Maire last weekend. This money is intended to help set up digital solutions for local authorities and local businesses. At the same time, we launched a call for projects to facilitate the identification of the most relevant solutions for TPEs during this period of containment; We will relay them as widely as possible not only through a national communication campaign, but also through our partners. As such, CCI and CMA – Chambers of Crafts and Crafts – have committed themselves to calling 600,000 traders and artisans within the month. This plan has been the subject of consultation with all federations and associations. Support for the digitisation of enterprises will also benefit from funding under the next IAP4 budget programming. The strategy for inter-ministerial digitisation is partly shared at European level, particularly with regard to artificial intelligence. Business support in this area, if necessary, will continue beyond the recovery plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The tasks you are looking at today meet this dual objective: to support businesses while maintaining the priority given to the modernization and transformation of the economy. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I have answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u59	Not everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u60	I call the credits of the "Economy" mission, listed in Statement B. I would remind you that we need to consider some eighty amendments. In order to complete the examination of these appropriations by the end of the sitting at the latest, I shall strictly apply the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, both in terms of the number of statements made and their duration. So I invite you to brevity. Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1962.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u61	My colleague Jean-Louis Bricout's amendment aims to draw one of the consequences of the significant reduction in production taxes by creating a compensation mechanism for the territorial meshing mission assigned to the La Poste Group. Indeed, the reduction of these taxes mechanically reduces the operating appropriations of the latter by 65 million. As I have already pointed out, there should be at least one commitment from the minister delegated to the shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u62	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u63	Special Rapporteur Xavier Roseren and I understand your question about the La Poste Group and, more generally, about the compensation for the decline in CVAE. I let the minister delegate set out his road map in this area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u65	Discussions are under way at the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery to find a solution to maintain the current level of the postal equalization fund to the tune of 174 million. While the decline in the ACVAE will result in a reduction in its abundance of 65 million, the solutions under consideration aim to maintain the level of financing of La Poste's land use planning mission at 174 million. A decision will be taken in the next few days; I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u66	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u67	I hear the minister's commitment, but I cannot withdraw the amendment, which is that of Mr Jean-Louis Bricout.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u68	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2099.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u69	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u71	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2275.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u72	The amendment, which we had already defended last year, aims to restore the 100 million budget appropriations for the development of TPEs and SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u74	I do not think that you have defended the amendment on TPEs and SMEs, but the amendment on Bpifrance and the guarantee fund. In this regard, we are very sensitive to your proposal, since, with Valéria Faure-Muntian this year – like last year with Olivia Gregoire – we are in favour of Bpifrance keeping part of the guarantee funds, but not according to the amounts you want. All of these appropriations must be considered in the "Relaunch Plan" mission. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u76	The "Relaunch Plan" mission of the finance bill provides unprecedented support to the Bpifrance Guarantee Fund: nearly 500 million are allowed and will allow by the end of 2022 to guarantee close to 4.5 billion additional investment credits to its traditional activity. They will finance nearly 2 billion investments that reduce the environmental impact of TPEs, SMEs and ITEs. Through its stimulus plan, the Government has sought to provide massive support for this mission of essential general interest, which will contribute to the rebound of TPEs, SMEs and ITEs. The fact that no credit is included in programme 134 "Business development and regulation" does not reflect the Government's willingness to withdraw from this mission or to avoid a debate on the subject, on the contrary. The allocations allocated to the Bpifrance Guarantee Fund by the Recovery Plan mission will focus on two objectives: firstly, to support companies wishing to limit their environmental impact, which will also help to influence their competitiveness; 220 million budget appropriations will make it possible to make nearly 2 billion investments. The second objective should be to strengthen the guarantee funds which have proved their usefulness in recent years; Thus, the average share of guaranteed loans will be raised as soon as necessary to generate bank financing to create, transmit or grow a business. By mobilising EUR 200 million, we expect to finance 2.4 billion, which would not have taken place without this mechanism. In addition, to compensate for this increase in the appropriations of the 134 programme "Business development and regulation" with a decrease in the appropriations of Action 01 of the 305 programme "Economic and fiscal strategy" is an inappropriate solution. Indeed, most of these appropriations are dedicated to the remuneration of the State; Under the Monetary and Financial Code, the latter is legally obliged to pay them in respect of the services performed on its behalf by the Banque de France and the overseas issuing institutes. An agreement was concluded in October 2016 between the Banque de France and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. This amendment would call into question the current agreements between the State and the Banque de France and the overseas issuing institutions, and reduce the operating appropriations of the Directorate-General for the Treasury; This seems difficult to imagine in view of the current obligations that this Directorate is facing. That is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn; otherwise unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u77	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u78	I do not withdraw it and I would point out to the Special Rapporteur that I was not wrong in my amendment: I did it quickly, because I listened to the instructions of the chairman of the sitting. But, since you think I was wrong, I'm going to detail it: last year, you made the choice of debudging the guarantee activity, asking Bpifrance to secure the financing of its public service mission on its dividends. This choice, defended by Olivia Gregoire, who has since become Secretary of State, creates two difficulties: the first is democratic, because decisions no longer pass before Parliament; We no longer have our say on Bpifrance's dividends, which is organized as she wants. The second challenge is economic and financial: in 2019, Bpifrance mobilized 150 million exceptional dividends to finance this mission; In the face of the disengagement of the State, it was de facto forced to restrict the financing services offered. I therefore disagree with the Special Rapporteur and the Deputy Minister. Mr Minister, you blame me for securing the mission on another programme: indeed, but that is the rule, parliamentarians cannot increase the appropriations. We are therefore obliged to go through this little trick, which is not glorious, I grant you, but which does not reflect the objective we want to achieve. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u79	Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1260.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u80	On the same subjects, it was adopted by the Finance Committee. Mrs Rabault, excuse me for lending you these words; That wasn't my intention. For several years, we have been in favour of Bpifrance's guarantee activity. In the absence of a crisis, guarantee credits are not used so much, but with the crisis we are experiencing, they are necessary. It seems to us interesting that they are assigned to the "Relaunch Plan" mission, for greater visibility; This is why they will be removed for two years from the "Economy" mission. On the other hand, as special rapporteurs, Mrs Valérie Faure-Muntian and I would like to maintain a line of 10000 euros: even if it is symbolic, it can be abounded again by 2023, when the recovery plan has come to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u82	The "Relaunch Plan" mission of the finance bill provides unprecedented support to the Bpifrance Guarantee Fund: nearly 500 million are allowed and will allow by the end of 2022 to guarantee close to 4.5 billion additional investment credits to its traditional activity, which will finance nearly 2 billion investments reducing the environmental impact of TPEs, SMEs and ITEs. With this amendment, you want to create an additional programme of a budget line of EUR 10000. The Government calls for its withdrawal, in favour of an amendment on a new reading, which will not create a new programme; otherwise unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u83	I call Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u84	We withdraw it and will file a better version of it at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u85	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 990.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u86	It aims to draw your attention to the situation of the managers of holiday centres, which have been almost at a standstill since the end of last winter. They were able to work a little this summer, implementing health measures, but are now in great difficulty. Children's stays offered by schools are all cancelled. The managers of holiday centres are essentially structures of the social and solidarity economy, whose budget is balanced. The winter season starts with great uncertainty about attendance. In the territories, especially in the mountains – the special rapporteur Xavier Roseren can confirm this – the managers of holiday centres, some of which are already fragile, break the figure one after the other. Unfortunately, they anticipate a very difficult situation. [[Anne-Laure Blin applauds]] The aim of this amendment is to go beyond what the Solidarity Fund allows, in order to stick more closely to the real needs of these structures, with a fund providing for a minimum of EUR 15000 to take account of their fixed charges and prevent them from depositing the balance sheet. Young people and children are welcomed in these 1500 structures of the social and solidarity economy; The ability of the territories concerned to welcome them in the future is at stake. In the mountains, for example, these holiday centres generate 300 million revenue for the local economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u88	Thank you, Mrs Bonnivard, for this amendment which highlights the difficulties encountered by our holiday centres, about which all the mountain players have been alerted since the beginning of the crisis. In September, I even co-signed a letter to the Minister of National Education on this subject with you and many Members of Parliament from the mountains, from all benches. The mountain study group, which I co-chair with Mrs Dalloz, also drew Mr Blanquer's attention to this situation. I am convinced of the importance of the holiday settlements, which I was able to measure when I was mayor of my commune. Moreover, as these holiday centres form the skiers of tomorrow, their future will have implications for the mountain economy over the next ten years. However, the first three amending finance bills already contain a large number of aids to enterprises, and the fourth, which is currently being considered by the Finance Committee, provides for others; These schemes provide massive support to all enterprises. It should be added that these aids have been increased for tourism and that the forthcoming PLFR4, which will soon be adopted, will step up them. We must let the recovery plan do its job, but this does not, of course, remove the need to support the holiday centres. Finally, I stress that the learning holiday scheme, which is part of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission, should be sustained after its success and which we welcome. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u90	The situation of the holiday centres you are putting forward is at the heart of our concerns and our work, carried out in consultation with the tourism actors concerned, mostly associations. Of course, we fully agree with you about the benefits of group stays for children: they are at the centre of the project of educational continuity, from school to leisure, promoted by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. This is the whole meaning of the learning holiday scheme. Nor do we forget that holiday centres are important economic players in the territories. Health security is what guides us, and we are already preparing for the return to health conditions that allow these educational times. The first condition for the success of this recovery is to prevent the actors of the discovery classes and the holiday colonies from putting the key under the door. General measures, particularly those relating to partial activity, must help to limit costs, but this is not enough. This is why work is undertaken with representatives of voluntary employers and organisations representing the associations concerned. The State Secretariat for Youth and Engagement will soon have an opportunity to speak on this point. We therefore call for the withdrawal of your amendment or, failing that, its rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u91	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u92	I am pleased, Minister, to hear you say that specific work is being done on holiday centres, and I thank you for that. Since the balance sheet situation of these structures is not the same as that of conventional companies, it seems to me important that they be treated differently in order to ensure their future. However, I would like to retain my amendment because we must pay particular attention to ensuring that the general measures to accompany the tourism sector, which are positive, are in line with the specific features of the management of holiday centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u93	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u94	FISAC, placed in extinct management by the 2019 Finance Act, as was recalled earlier, should be reactivated. This system of support for economic development, which is based on the network of chambers of trade and crafts, plays a central role in combating the economic desertification of our towns, particularly in rural areas. Our amendment provides for the transfer of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations; We thank you for the attention you would like to pay to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u96	Increasing credits to FISAC does not seem relevant to us as the Government provides massive support to the economy through the credits of the "Economic Recovery Plan" mission and the support of the companies that are in difficulty as a result of the crisis. Moreover, the ANC – the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories –, widely supported by local actors, is dedicated to the problem of desertification, which you mentioned. Our opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u98	Mrs Blin, you would like to respond to the difficulties faced by local businesses by relaunching FISAC, which was abolished by the 2019 Finance Act. Let us recall that the NOTRE law has transferred the competence of economic development to the regions. The State considers that its role, as an accompanying and strategist, is to establish a favourable territorial framework. In addition, the ANC carries out numerous actions, in addition to the "Small Cities of Tomorrow" programme and the creation, as part of the recovery plan, of a hundred properties intended to accompany 6000 enterprises in the territories. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u99	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u100	This amendment by my colleague Vincent Descoeur aims to create an aid fund, to remain national, dedicated to the modernisation and diversification of service stations, distributed throughout the national territory. Of the 11068 service stations in France, 2900 independent rural stations play a key role in contributing to an end-to-end territorial grid: they provide community service in deserted areas where residents are often dependent on their vehicle. Yet an attrition of this mesh has been at work since the 1980s: their number has fallen from 40,000 to 11,000. This issue must be considered a priority, in particular because the health crisis has worsened an already precarious situation. The crisis has revealed the importance of this network: in rural areas, the service stations, by providing the necessary refuelling of the vehicles, have enabled the freight transport industry, in the second line, to play a major role in the fight against the pandemic, in particular for the transport of medical equipment and tests, to which the vaccines will be added tomorrow. In general, they contribute to the opening up of the territory and to the preservation of local shops in rural and peri-urban areas, which generate social ties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u102	Moreover, they are one of the answers to the challenge of the energy transition, which must involve a territorial and technical development, in particular with the deployment of the electric charging stations. This dedicated fund, with a budget of EUR 10 million, would allow alternative energies to be deployed in the territories and to adapt the facilities intended to store them. It would help owner-operators of service stations diversify their operations and standardize their distribution and storage facilities, which represent a significant cost. This would ensure fuel supply throughout the country, avoiding short-, medium- and long-term station closures. Finally, experience has shown that such an aid fund, managed at national level, is an excellent means of obtaining feedback from service stations, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u104	It would thus provide accurate mapping of the national network and provide a strategic vision of the evolution of point-of-sale mesh across the country, in line with the recommendations of the PPE – multi-annual energy programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u106	The situation in rural areas is certainly a major concern of national representation. However, the choice of Program 134 to create this fund is questionable. This would, in some way, be tantamount to relaunching the FISAC, which has been abolished. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u108	Work involving the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate, the ANC and the CGDD – the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development – was launched in consultation with representatives of the oil sector, to identify key stations to be maintained, establish funding mechanisms and determine the annual resources to be allocated to support this network. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn or rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u109	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2013.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u110	The PACTE law, on business growth and transformation, entrusted two new tasks to INPI – the National Institute of Industrial Property. The first is to deploy, between 1 January 2021 and 1 January 2023, a single electronic window for all business formalities, which involves the design and maintenance of the IT portal, the management of formalities, the transmission to the various bodies concerned and the necessary assistance to users. The second is the creation of a general dematerialised register to centralise and disseminate business information, which will replace all existing registers. The purpose of my amendment, Minister, is to alert you to the situation of INPI and to the capping of both its revenues and its FTEs. I have always considered that any dematerialization initially required massive investment in not only budgetary but also human resources. To set up these new dematerialised platforms, we must also allow INPI to recruit people who will ensure their development and the operation of the hotline. The INPI is simply asking us to raise its employment ceiling by 40 FTEs, without calling for additional resources because it has the own funds to finance them. We must accompany this public institution so that it can properly carry out the new tasks entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u112	I agree with you on the substance, Mrs Magnier: the INPI must be provided with the necessary staff to carry out its new tasks, especially since the PACTE law has considerably strengthened the patent examination procedures, which has led to a considerable workload for the establishment, without benefiting from an increase in fees. I think the one-stop e-commerce will do this a great service. However, the admissibility rules do not allow us to accept an amendment which would lead to an increase in the number of operators only; Amendment of appropriations is the only possible channel. I will therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. The Government will need to engage in discussions with INPI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u114	In August 2020, INPI was designated as operator of the Single Window and the General Business Register because it has sufficient financial and operational resources to carry out this project, as we were told at the time. In the summary statement of your amendment, you specify that 9 FTEs will be transferred from the enterprise window, which will give the INPI additional resources. My services will follow with the utmost attention the implementation of this project, in order to ensure that INPI is able to carry out its tasks in the service of companies. We believe that vette-entreprises.fr should become the reference site for French entrepreneurs, as well as impots.gouv.fr. I will therefore ask for the amendment to be rejected unless it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u115	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u116	Of course, 9 FTEs are transferred. However, on the basis of the impact assessment of the PACTE law, INPI considers that it will need close to 100 additional FTEs by the end of 2023 alone to ensure the quality and security of the new business platform. We proposed an increase of 40 FTEs in the FTE ceiling because the challenge is to ensure that new approaches are carried out in the best possible conditions. I find it a pity that we are not accompanying INPI because it poses a risk to the development of the new platform. Having said that, I agree to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u117	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 2445.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u118	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u120	The decrease in appropriations that you want to correct is due to the mobilisation of the DGCCRF in favour of the most dynamic consumer rights associations. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u121	On the appropriations of the mission "Economy", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2296.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u122	With this amendment, Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftswoman, proposes the redistribution of €3 million of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations for Action 23 "Industries and services" of the programme "Business development and regulation" towards Action 04 "Social economy, solidarity and responsibility" of the programme "Economic strategies", in order to meet the identified need to support the development of enterprises in the field of ESS, through DLAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u124	Let me begin by welcoming the start of the "Social, Solidarity and Responsible Economy" programme in programme 305, which I have had the honour of examining the appropriations. Your amendment aims to increase the appropriations for the 305 programme by EUR 3 million. This seems premature to me, since a State Secretariat responsible for the social, solidarity and responsible economy was created a few weeks ago. Let him work and make sure that the corresponding appropriations are revised in a future PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u125	I call on the Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible and supportive, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This amendment is important because the DLA is a major and operational mechanism in the territories. That is why I am making a commitment before you to increase substantially the appropriations for the local accompanying arrangements from 2021 onwards. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u127	I call Mr Philippe Chassating, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 2409.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u128	The aim of this appeal amendment is to re-emphasize the issue of over-indebtedness. The experience of the 2008 crisis is illuminating: the number of people in debt increased by 20 per cent each year until 2014. We must learn from this for the current crisis and strengthen the support of those who may be victims of financial difficulties tomorrow. We also need to strengthen the tools to prevent over-indebtedness. In the end, it seems to me necessary to check, quite urgently, that the modalities of our policy to prevent over-indebtedness are in line with the current crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u130	I give the floor to Mr. Griset! "Chabadabada", parity is in progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u131	Thank you for drawing our attention to this extremely important subject. Many measures have been taken to combat over-indebtedness and we will continue to pay the utmost attention to it. I therefore call for your amendment to be withdrawn or, failing that, for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u132	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2081.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u133	It aims to sound the alarm, once again, about the destruction of the current national industry, and specifically calls on the Government to prevent the merger between Veolia and Suez. The sale of Suez to Veolia is an aberration in the light of the general interest. It would result in a new industrial, strategic and social loss, after Alstom's or Alcatel's previous edifyings. At the end of the merger, the dismantling of Suez will be inevitable if the new entity is to comply with the requirements of competition. At the strategic level, the State would thus deprive itself of the expertise and skills essential to carrying out the necessary ecological bifurcation. Water is a major issue for the coming years and a common good that is likely to be jeopardized by fusion. In addition to this, there will be a heavy social balance sheet, as with every operation of this type. The Government continues to support this merger by simply denouncing the method used by Veolia. In this perspective, he voted against the sale of Engie's shares in Suez to Veolia at the board of directors of Engie on October 5. How can we credit this opposition, when the final outcome of the vote goes against the opinion of the State, in a company whose state is the first shareholder?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u135	Your amendment does not really concern the 305 programme. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u136	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2314.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u137	He also appealed to the Government to prevent the dismantling of the General Electric Belfort site. Alstom's sale to General Electric is a fiasco. The State has shown weakness at each stage, first by agreeing to the sale, then by failing to monitor the implementation of the agreement, by failing to remove the purchasing options held by the Bouygues group and by refusing to sanction General Electric for non-compliance with the 2014 agreement. The Government is satisfied with an agreement that will cost hundreds of jobs and benefit a company whose total disloyalty has been proven for years. By letting General Electric's French activities sink, the Government is guilty of a real betrayal of our country's economic and industrial interests. It will leave the necessary know-how to carry out the ecological planning we need to disappear. By gradually letting French activities die, the Government places the country in the hands of industrial giants and foreign powers for the production of its energy. The structural weakness of General Electric suggests that the use of nationalisation would give a future to the group's French activities in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u138	I put to the vote the credits of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u139	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 94 Number of votes cast 92 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 86 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u140	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2440.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u141	More than 240 million coins of 1 and 2 Pacific francs are in circulation in New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna. Following a wide-ranging consultation, initiated since 2019 with representatives of these French Pacific communities, the Government wishes to reduce this cost centre by abolishing the issuance of these small pieces as of 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u143	This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u144	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u145	I am always surprised to see government amendments coming after the examination of the text in committee, especially on matters that were not discovered a week ago – in this case, the issue of coins in circulation dates back to a year...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u146	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2441.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u147	Participatory loans provide a response to TPEs and SMEs that have not been able to obtain a state-guaranteed loan from their banks, adapted to their needs, which puts them in a fragile situation. Accordingly, the Government wishes to extend the period for the granting of these loans until 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u149	The committee was not able to discuss this amendment, but my co-rapporteur and I are in favour of it on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u150	I call the appropriations of the "Investments for the Future" mission, entered in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u151	You went a little fast! I wanted to defend Amendment No 1300 on behalf of Mrs Dalloz!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u152	I apologize. We therefore consider that Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz's amendment has been defended and that it has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u153	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor to support Amendment No. 954.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u154	It aims to strengthen environmental considerations in the provision of financing under the fourth investment programme for the future. I would like to add to the debate the principle of conditioning French investments to genuine ecological commitments. Strengthening sustainable investment is one of our priorities. It is at the heart of the recovery plan, which aims to be ambitious for the environment – these ambitions are also shared at European level. Since France is committed to the objective of preserving the planet, it is important to ensure that the projects it finances meet an environmental ambition. Public funding should therefore be reserved only for projects which are sustainable for the environment and which respect the commitments made by France at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u155	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Deputy Special Rapporteur, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u156	To return to the appropriations of the "Investments for the Future" mission, I did not have the opportunity to defend Amendment No 1300 by my colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz. This is an opportunity for me to do so: this amendment highlighted the lack of readability of future investment programmes and the confusion between the IAP4 and the IAP3. I come to Amendment No 954, which has not been considered by the committee but seems to me to be satisfactory. You would like to make it clear, Mrs Tanguy, that the IAP funds finance innovative and environmentally sustainable projects and that the related investment decisions are taken into account for their impact on the environment. This condition is already mentioned in Article 55, paragraph 7, which provides that projects financed under the IAP4 shall, inter alia, aim at accelerating the ecological transition. It would be redundant to reaffirm that. Personally, I would ask for your amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u157	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u158	I will give a general answer on all the following doctrine amendments. In doing so, I will express my opinion on Mrs Tanguy's amendment. Several amendments propose changes to the IAP doctrine. I apologize for killing suspense, but the Government will ask for its withdrawal, failing which it will issue an unfavorable opinion. It is precisely a point of doctrine that dictates this position. For years, Parliament has rightly called for the inclusion of the IAP's investment doctrine in the law. During the two preceding quinquennats, the two previous majorities refused to do so. For our part, we have done so: the demanding doctrine that now applies to every euro invested preserves the integrity of the IAP and guarantees its quality of execution. However, it should not become an obstacle to what is precisely the strength of IAPs: their flexibility, inherent in any investment decision. The IAP4 must maintain its agility, both in its organization and in defining its investment priorities. In this context, recalled in the doctrine, the PIA4 has as its sole constraint, within its scope of intervention, the innovative nature of the solution envisaged. It is not necessary – and it would not be desirable – to restrict its action by including in the law a targeted theme or the underlying themes. Promoting this logic would be tantamount to questioning the principles that guided the construction of the new generation of future investments, but also to taking the risk, by targeting certain themes rather than others, of excluding a priori, by definition, potential innovative projects. Not being able to satisfy everyone, which I apologize for, I do not wish to disappoint anyone. Whatever the merits and relevance of some of the objectives sought, for these reasons of doctrine, I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u159	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mrs Tanguy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u160	Yes, because I trust the Secretary of State's commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u161	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u162	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor to support Amendment No. 624.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u163	Equality between women and men is the great cause of the quinquennium. Future investment programmes must take this into account. Ecological transition and economic resilience are already objectives of the IAP. The addition of the principle of equality seems obvious to me; that is the purpose of this amendment. Indeed, equality is a structural issue for society and its economic dynamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u165	The committee did not consider this amendment, which is intended to clarify in the PIA doctrine that the projects are aimed at promoting equality between women and men. I am not in favour of the amendments aimed at complementing the doctrine of the IAPs with objectives that are far removed from their primary function, namely the financing of innovative projects that will increase the competitiveness of our economy. By multiplying the targets, we would risk dispersing the appropriations allocated to IAPs. That is why I am asking for withdrawal; Otherwise, I will be in favour of it – sorry, unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u166	Revealing lapsus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u167	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor to support Amendment No. 2249.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u168	This amendment by my colleague Véronique Riotton aims to ensure that projects financed under the IAP contribute to the decarbonisation of the economy in order to build green and sustainable growth. France has great industrial potential, as we know. Haute-Savoie, for example, is a very industrial land. It is essential that future investments include decarbonisation targets to contribute to the fight against global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u170	Your amendment aims to clarify that IAPs increase the growth potential of the carbon-free economy. We must consider that it is satisfactory since the IAP doctrine already provides for investments to contribute to the acceleration of the ecological transition. The committee has not considered the amendment, but I personally am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u172	For the same reasons, on a personal basis, request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u173	What about Amendment No 2250, Mr Roseren?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u174	I'm taking it out, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u175	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor to support Amendment No. 1018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u176	This amendment by our colleague Thierry Michels aims to focus on green jobs. We are pleased that the recovery plan devotes €6 billion to thermal renewal, but this sector is experiencing a severe shortage of labour in France: until 2030, it is estimated that some 400,000 jobs will be missing to meet needs. That is why this amendment highlights green jobs – but I understand that it will receive the same opinion as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u177	Does the committee's opinion confirm Mr Thiébaut's intuition?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u178	Yes. The amendment seeks to clarify that the projects financed contribute to the development of green jobs, but, I repeat, the IAP doctrine already provides that they aim to speed up the ecological transition. The committee has not considered the amendment, but I personally ask for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u180	Withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u181	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u182	This amendment by Élisabeth Toutut-Picard, of which I am co-signatory, is intended to add to paragraph 7 the concept of risk prevention related to health and environmental interactions. It is simply a matter of reaffirming the place of environmental health in IAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u184	This amendment, which the committee did not consider, aims to clarify the IAP doctrine by stating that investments must be made in order to protect us against the risks associated with interactions between health and environments. Everyone will agree that these issues are essential, but the amendment presents several problems. First of all, I fear that it is too restrictive in relation to the overall ambition of the IAPs, which must retain its importance. In addition, various actions already take account of the quality of the environment. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u186	Same notice: withdrawal or unfavourable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u187	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2433.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u188	The IAP is a great tool to increase France's potential for growth and jobs. It makes it possible to value and finance projects that are conducive to the economy and the territories. It is also a project of society, men and women, a project for employment and skills, especially those of tomorrow. It is a comprehensive and complex future strategy that will cover all ministries and all areas of public policy: industry, digital, ecological transition, education, vocational training and many others. These investments are intended to irrigate the economy for several years. Therefore, the choice of projects is fundamental, and the concordance between training and guidance, on the one hand, and the new challenges ahead, on the other, is a necessity for employment. For these reasons, it is important, in the article endorsing this new phase of the IAP, to stress the human dimension and the importance of skills, which are the heart of the recovery and the condition of our resilience. In concrete terms, the work on training and guidance needs to be deepened in all projects, as it is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u190	Everyone agrees on the importance of training, but again, I do not think it appropriate to structure the terms of reference of the actions by adding the objective of developing training offers in line with the challenges of tomorrow, because the PIAs would be removed from their main purpose. It's better not to multiply references. As this amendment has not been discussed in committee, I would ask you personally to withdraw it; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u192	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u193	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 756.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u194	While the health crisis of the covid-19 stressed the need to rethink the educational offer in the digital age, the actors of ed-tech – the education technology sector – have demonstrated the major role they play in responding to the challenges of digital education in the educational and educational fields, and in addressing the challenges of distance learning. Numerous innovative solutions highlighted during the confinement period have ensured pedagogical continuity through solidarity offers aimed at democratising the access of millions of pupils, parents and teachers to all educational content, and at avoiding any territorial divide in terms of learning and education. However, while the crisis has demonstrated the benefits and added value of the players in ed-tech, it has, above all, shed new light on the road ahead and on the means to complete the transition to digital education. Indeed, the 400 companies in the French ed-tech sector are hampered by the lack of a framework in the school institution, in an almost closed market. According to a recent report by the Court of Auditors, the political will to build a public education digital service has not been accompanied by a long-term strategy. However, in order to preserve our educational sovereignty, an ambitious digital education policy, supported by a robust French sector, must be deployed, capable by its qualities, ethics and values of coping with the growing influence of the major foreign web platforms in this field. The question of a digital education strategy is now a matter of urgency. Political ambitions and budgetary means are needed to help build an ed-tech industry. To do this, the IAP 4 needs to have a sufficiently large budget to allow the emergence of an educational digital market and to put in place an appropriate structure. This will allow teachers and students to access quality digital tools and resources, making France a world leader in ed-tech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u196	Your amendment aims to include the educational field among the objectives of the IAP; We can only agree. Note, however, that this area was already affected by investments under the IAP3 without having to be specified. And I am not at all in favour of supplementing the PIA doctrine with sectoral references; If we were to mention education, we would have to add defence, health or other sectors. This is the subject of other amendments. On the contrary, I believe that the doctrine of IAPs should not be exhaustive. Therefore, although the committee has not considered the amendment, I request that it be withdrawn on a personal basis; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u198	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u199	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u200	The shift in digital education must not be missed. To speak by metaphor, let us not risk the prolonged stop at the stand, or even the exit of the road! I am withdrawing the amendment, but we will remain vigilant on this because we need to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u201	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u202	Equality between women and men is a factor of economic dynamism; It must be ensured that it is effective in all projects. However, having heard the reply of the alternate special rapporteur and the Secretary of State on my previous amendment, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u203	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 2298, 2299 and 2297, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u204	They have the same objective: to direct investments in order to promote the accountability of the entire economy and to combine innovation and sustainability. Amendment No 2298 provides that the projects selected are subject to a joint assessment of both their economic dimension and their social and environmental impact, in order to reflect the priorities of the recovery. Amendment No 2299 aims to clarify that the selection of projects takes account of environmental, social and governance criteria, which are already used in the field of sustainable and solidarity finance. Finally, Amendment No 2297 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u205	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u206	The committee did not examine them, but my argument is the same as the previous ones. Article 55 already provides that investment decisions are taken taking into account the return on investment, whether financial or not. This extra-financial dimension encompasses the environmental, social and governance effects that you refer to. I am therefore against the Kings' amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u208	As the subject matter is of importance, allow me to take the time for an answer. These amendments concern the extra-financial performance of companies, sometimes referred to as impact score or scoring. As the alternate Special Rapporteur has pointed out, the proposal you are making is already met by the current very precise wording of Article 55, according to which the ecological transition and the resilience of the socio-economic organisation constitute two of the three aims of the IAP, the other being the potential for growth. Secondly, it is envisaged that "investment decisions will be taken into account for a return on investment, whether financial or not" – I will return to this point, addressed in Amendment No 2299. As far as upstream is concerned, since each project is different, it seems more relevant to us that the specifications detail the prerequisites and the expected impacts, rather than making general reference to them in the IAP doctrine. On the other hand, the Government is against the amendments because this approach to the legitimate constraints imposed on businesses does not seem to me to be the right one. Like all other scoring approaches, the impact score is a very useful tool for counting and valuing companies' actions in terms of the environmental and social impact of business activities. I had several exchanges with his designers, which I congratulated and encouraged. On the other hand, I firmly believe that this legible tool is both a strength and a weakness. The impact score is a very good tool to show the general public the impacts of corporate social responsibility strategies, but it does not do justice to the complexity and diversity of these strategies. My deep conviction is that we cannot take the risk of choosing a tool such as the impact score and unilaterally decree, on behalf of France, a series of criteria that would not have been shared between the companies concerned, and between them and the social partners and the administration. This would risk imposing inappropriate or even ineffective indicators, which would be the opposite of the objective. With all due respect for these approaches and for the House, I would like to ask you to look at the debate that is happening, not in 2022, not in 2023, but in the first quarter of 2021, in Europe, with the revision of the Extra-Financial Information Directive, known as "NFRD". Our country cannot unilaterally invent indicators without considering the broader subject of extra-financial accounting – some of us in this House are in control of this issue. This subject will therefore be discussed at the beginning of next year – I do not refer you to debates that would take place when we do not know – and must be the subject of serious and thorough work with all the Member States. This impact score seems too short. The subject of extra-financial performance is a fight that is dear to my heart, as you know, and I know that many Members are interested. The score impact tool, while interesting, is not analytically deep enough and is not shared enough with European actors to be able to fly and be legitimate at the level of European power. The challenge is that of a new accounting system for Europe, not just a new tool for France. I hope I have made it clear that this is not a dogmatic rejection a priori but that I consider this subject too important not to be brought to the European level as early as the first quarter of 2021, i.e. tomorrow. I would therefore ask you to withdraw Amendments Nos 2298 and 2297. With regard to Amendment No. 2299, I propose an amendment that may satisfy your request and which is not trivial: instead of referring to ESG criteria – i.e. environmental, social and governance, without going into more detail – I suggest you, at the end of paragraph 9 of Article 55, to replace the word "no" with the word "extra-financial" in order to include in the law what I consider to be a legitimate request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u209	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u210	In view of your explanations, Madam Secretary of State, I will withdraw Amendments Nos 2298 and 2297, and I accept your proposal for correction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u211	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2301 and 2289, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 2289, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 2301.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u212	It is in line with the government's desire to ensure "innovative and promising investments in the territory". It tends to impose a set of preconditions for obtaining IAP funds to ensure that funded projects will not only be innovative and enable economic growth, but also engage in a sustainable and virtuous approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u213	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 2289.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u214	This amendment by Mr Potier has the same objective as the previous ones: to attach a number of preconditions to obtaining funding from the IAP to ensure that the projects financed are not only innovative, creating added value, but also engaged in a sustainable and virtuous approach. These criteria are based on a social and ecological impact index which should allow companies requesting the IAP to specify their commitments regarding the integration of a social and ecological mission at the heart of the company's activity, with: a percentage of the turnover devoted to sponsorship; the share of jobs held by vulnerable or disabled workers; the rate of employees living in priority neighbourhoods of city policy; the company's direct carbon footprint. These scoring criteria can be usefully used by the Government in its decision to invest IAP funds, unless the Government specifies its criteria, which we have not been aware of so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u215	The floor is for Mrs Véronique Louwagie, alternate special rapporteur – whom I never forget – to give the committee's opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u216	Oh yes, earlier, you forgot me! I would like to inform you that I will ask for a second debate on Amendment No 1300, which I have not been able to defend under optimal conditions. These amendments aim to ensure that the allocation of IAP funds is based on data provided by companies. I am against this conditionality for two reasons. First, the principle of the IAP is excellence: it is about selecting the best projects, and this must remain their main objective. Secondly, the preparation of applications for funds is already sufficiently complex for companies: such a gas plant should not be added. Your willingness to punish less virtuous businesses risks penalizing the entire economic fabric. Personally, I am against these amendments, which have not been discussed by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u217	I take note of your request for second deliberation, but you certainly know that it will not take place today, but at the very end of the budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u218	I know that, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u219	What is the Government's opinion on the two amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u220	As far as cross-compliance is concerned, I have nothing to add to what the alternate special rapporteur has said, if not to refer you to what I have taken, I have already explained to you at length on the scoring of the upstream impact. To put it more simply, I understand the interest of the type of indicators precisely listed in Mr Potier's amendment, which knows the subject, but I think that defining a priori such a simple standard, based on fifteen or so indicators, is not for France the best way to achieve the objective we all share: to really change the economic practices of companies according to their environmental, social and governance impacts. While creating a simple standard can be attractive, building a stronger, more complex but more sustainable standard seems more relevant to me. So I also express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u221	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u222	I do not share your vision, Madam Deputy Special Rapporteur: it is a question of being not coercive, but an incentive, which is more positive; There is no question of punishing anyone. Madam Secretary of State, I do not see why you are talking about Europe: the PIA is a French programme. The Government is free to apply the criteria it wishes to choose which companies will benefit from these funds. This has nothing to do with European issues! In this matter, you decide sovereignly; I therefore do not see why you reject these criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u223	Yes, you know that very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u224	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2289.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u225	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 4 Against 81
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u226	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, alternate special rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1258.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u227	This amendment, adopted by the committee on the initiative of Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, aims to include in the IAP doctrine that investment decisions are taken into account for their effects on the development of the territories – this is the subject of territorialisation. In addition, the contribution of future investments to the reduction of territorial inequalities will need to be monitored. As the Future Investment Monitoring Committee was able to show, the initial objective of the IAPs was not to develop the territories; on the contrary, they had the effect of concentrating investment in large cities. I would remind you that only five of the forty-nine actions of the IAP1 were designed with a view to spatial planning. The Future Investment Monitoring Committee recommends that this dimension be fully taken into account in the IAP4 and that follow-up be carried out. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u229	[[Special noisy conversations]] At the outset, I would like to recall that the Government supports this goal of territorialization of the IAP. We have taken steps to accelerate the territorialization of IAP development. The objective is to strengthen the innovation potential of local actors...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u230	I invite all those who want to have personal discussions, certainly very pleasant, to hold them outside the Chamber so that we can listen to the Government's opinion calmly and carefully.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u232	Forgive me for interrupting you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u233	No problem, Mr. President. The objective, I said, is of course to strengthen the innovation potential of local actors, to the benefit of all the territories, with in mind two complementary dynamics: to demonstrate in real conditions, on the ground, the innovations developed within the framework of the major strategies of national acceleration led by the Government; with the territorial demonstrators, to experiment with innovations as close as possible to the populations and territories. The tool has 2.5 million euros over five years, which is not nothing. I would also like to remind you in parallel of the co-investment – as you know, the alternate special rapporteur – alongside the territories: the regionalised share of the programmes is being strengthened, from 250 million to 500 million euros, or an additional 100 million per year over five years. The principle remains the same: 1 euro invested by a region per 1 euro invested by the State. However, the law cannot explicitly include this objective in the investment doctrine for the reasons I have already mentioned, at the risk of restricting the scope of the IAP. Despite the interesting nature of the objective, I think the means is not the right one. I therefore suggest that you withdraw this amendment; In the opposite case, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u234	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, alternate special rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u235	I regret your position, Madam Secretary of State, for two reasons. First, everyone recognizes that territorialization is a real issue in the recovery plan. We have to go all the way, but it's the last kilometer that's difficult. Only five of the forty-nine actions of the IAP are designed, I would remind you, with a view to spatial planning, i.e. 10%, that is still little! There is, therefore, a real subject here. Secondly, in refusing this amendment, it is also the monitoring of territorialisation that you refuse, which is truly regrettable. I therefore call on my colleagues to take into account the desire of all our fellow citizens for development that will reduce inequalities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u236	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u237	The Finance Committee adopted this amendment to draw the Government's attention to the need for a fair territorial distribution...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u238	And a follow-up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u239	... which will enable all to benefit from these industrial projects. Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State: we trust you to ensure this. I would just like to point out that there is a future investment monitoring committee in which, let us not forget, we are represented by several Members. I know, Mrs Louwagie, that you are defending Mrs Dalloz's amendment: she must not hesitate to ask them and question them in the Committee on Finance to ensure proper territorial follow-up – it is the Member of the Allier who I am, as attentive as you are to these matters, who says so. The majority will not vote in favour of the amendment, not because it is not paying attention to it, but because the amendment was primarily intended to draw the Government's attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u240	I would point out to you that it is already noon and that we have considered only half of the amendments that we were to discuss this morning. Mr Stéphane Testé, to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u241	This amendment by Mrs Rixain, co-signed by some 20 colleagues, tends to make the financing of projects by the IAP funds conditional on compliance with the obligations of the Labour Code to reduce wage inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u243	It's interesting, but again, I think we should not go wrong. The main objective, the IAP's course of action, must be the pursuit of excellence and the development of breakthrough innovations. To include in the law the objective you propose could create an eviction effect for some companies. However, I fully agree with you that equal pay for men and women is a real challenge. The amendment has not been discussed by the committee, and I request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u245	Same opinion: request for withdrawal; otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u246	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u247	As I am not the first signatory, I do not allow myself to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u248	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2302 and 2290, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 2290, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2302.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u249	The amendment, tabled by Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftsman of the opinion, aims to ensure that all French companies receiving the France label, and hence public aid and investment, publish their results on social and ecological impact every year in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u250	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 2290.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u251	It has exactly the same objective. I would like to take this opportunity to point out to the Secretary of State, who earlier refused to use a score, that with the France Relaunch label, the Government also invented a label.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u252	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u253	No, not a label!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u254	You don't like the contradiction...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u255	It's not a contradiction, it's just that I don't agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u256	...but for the moment, there is a real contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u257	A label isn't the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u258	Call it what you want: anyway, if there is a label, it is based on criteria. You refuse our proposal to introduce criteria, on the grounds that they should not be imposed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u259	No, that's not the reason I came forward. If you'd listened, you'd know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u260	...but you do it with the label France re-launch.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u261	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u262	They have not been examined by the committee and I will deliver an unfavourable opinion. As I said a few moments ago, in developing several arguments, I am not in favour of new conditionalities. I believe that the initial objective of the IAP must remain: to foster a path of excellence by helping companies innovate and carry out their projects. To impose new obligations does not seem to me to meet these initial objectives. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u264	For the reasons I have already indicated at length in advance of these amendments, on behalf of the Government, I ask for the amendments to be withdrawn and, failing that, I will deliver an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u265	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2290.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u266	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 6 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u267	The Acting Special Rapporteur, in support of Amendment No. 2082, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u268	The purpose of this coordination amendment is to draw the consequences of the adoption by amendment of an addition to paragraph 1 of the IV of Article 8 of the Law of 9 March 2010 on Amending Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u270	I thank Mrs Dalloz and Mrs Louwagie for their vigilance: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u271	On Amendment No 1259, I have a request from the Finance Committee for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Acting Special Rapporteur has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u272	Presented by our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Special Trust Account for Investments in the Future, this amendment has been adopted in the Committee on Finance, and it is therefore on behalf of the Committee on Finance that it is presented to you. The Government wishes to delete one of the annexes to the finance bill: the yellow budget for the major investment plan. However, it brings together important topics, such as ecological transition, competitiveness and cohesion: its removal would therefore represent a very important loss of information for Parliament, in two ways. First, while the funds for the stimulus plan are included in the Economic Recovery Plan mission, the major investment plan consists of 26 initiatives covering appropriations committed by all departments. The scope is therefore not the same, nor the resources allocated, since the large investment plan provided EUR 57 billion during the quinquennium, while the "Economic Recovery Plan" mission has only EUR 36.6 million. Secondly, constantly changing the benchmarks poses real difficulties for the Members of the Finance Committee to follow up. Repository and budget documents cannot be changed every two years. A good solution would be for the Government to take the consequences of the launch of the recovery plan by adapting the annex to include the related appropriations. This would allow us to have consolidated information. The committee has adopted this amendment, which it considers important not to reduce Parliament's information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u275	The major investment plan was largely based on the mobilisation of ministerial budgetary appropriations of more than 33 billion euros and of the entire IAP3 for more than 10 billion euros, but it was also based on the shift in health insurance appropriations, the financial instruments of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, Bpifrance and the European Investment Bank. The production of a specific budget document allowed Parliament to have a consolidated and consolidated view of all budgetary appropriations mobilised within the framework of the IPG. The launch of the France Recovery Plan has changed the situation: the centralisation of appropriations in a single budgetary mission, led by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, facilitates several effective redeployments of appropriations between the various measures, according to their performance. In a way, the France Recovery Plan replaces the GPI. It is therefore no longer necessary to maintain the annex, on the understanding that budgetary information on these public policies is still being processed in their respective missions. Therefore, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u276	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u277	In committee, we have had lengthy debates on this amendment, which was finally adopted if not unanimously, in any case supported by the votes of all the groups. Earlier, Madam Secretary of State, when your colleague Alain Griset was on the bench of the Government, we were many to say in the rostrum that the creation of a "Economic Recovery Plan" mission had enabled the Government to be operational. We therefore do not underestimate its advantages at all. However, it undermines the democratic readability of all the appropriations, since it is necessary to look for some of them in the recovery plan, another in the "Investments of the Future" mission or elsewhere, according to the mission under consideration. A summary can therefore be obtained from the yellow budget. I understand that this requires Bercy to do a job that I do not underestimate. However, if you have rightly created the "Economic Recovery Plan" mission as an operational facility, in order to allow precise control of the appropriations consumed, it must not be at the expense of democratic readability. That is the argument that prevailed in the Committee on Finance, which led to the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u278	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u279	Things were clearly stated by Véronique Louwagie and Valérie Rabault. Madam Secretary of State, I appeal to your knowledge of parliamentary life and your wisdom: this is a problem of democratic legibility and respect for the functioning of Parliament. I was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, but I too want to point out that at the end of the debate on this amendment it was almost unanimous! Unless it bothers some technocrats in Bercy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u280	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u281	... I do not see any problem with this amendment, which, in essence, simply guarantees transparent debates and respects Parliament. It does not in any way call into question the policy of the Government. On behalf of all the groups that voted in favour of the amendment, I really appeal to your wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u283	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u284	There has indeed been a fairly lively debate in the Finance Committee. We will follow the advice of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u285	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u286	... but I would like the requested elements to be included in the PAPs – annual performance projects – because the current yellow brings together both the inventory of future investment projects, under Part II of the PLP, and the counter-expertise of the socio-economic evaluations of projects, under Part Three. These are very important data for Parliament. We will therefore follow you, Madam Secretary of State, but I very much hope that in the next budget documents related to the recovery plan, we will be able to have the precise elements that are now in the yellow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u287	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1259.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u288	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 81 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 15 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u289	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2300.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u290	This is again an amendment by Mrs Bessot Ballot, which aims to establish, before and after any investment from Bpifrance, an assessment and monitoring of the environmental and social consequences, based on a precise index of relevant indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u292	You propose to condition all the aid granted by Bpifrance to the criteria set out in the ecological and social index, which you define in other amendments tabled on the mission. In accordance with what I have already said, I am against the conditionality of the aid. Moreover, in this case, the amendment goes beyond the scope of the IAPs, since you are referring to the aid granted by Bpifrance. Although your wish may be to target large companies, it is true that all companies would be affected. Therefore, although the committee has not considered this amendment, I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u294	For the reasons set out above, request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u295	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u296	Thank you for the explanation: I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u297	I call the appropriations of the mission "International Monetary Agreements", entered in state D.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u298	I call credits from the Financial Assistance Account "Loans and Advances to Individuals or Private Organizations" listed in Statement D. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 2443.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u299	It aims to open up EUR 200 million in commitment authorizations and payment appropriations within the new programme "Support to the nickel sector" of the financial assistance account – CCF – "Lending and advances to private individuals or bodies", to finance the State loan to the company that will take over the business of Vale New Caledonia. It is an industrial complex of nickel and cobalt production located in Goro, south of Grande Terre, New Caledonia. The State had already supported the company a few years ago by granting it a loan. He had also been authorised to grant his guarantee for a loan of up to EUR 120 million for the environmental transformation of the site. In view of the strategic, economic and social importance of the site to the Caledonian territory, it is proposed to renew these two mechanisms for the benefit of the consortium of buyers. The previous loan will be fully repaid by Vale prior to the issuance of a new loan, of the same amount, for the benefit of the buyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u301	This amendment has not been considered by the Finance Committee; In my personal capacity, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u302	I call the appropriations of the mission "Financial Commitments of the State", entered in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u303	I call the appropriations of the special-purpose account "French participation in the deleveraging of Greece", entered in state D. Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2404.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u304	This is an appeal amendment, which covers only EUR 1000. As I explained earlier, France recovered €800 million in interest from Greece; As Europe has not fulfilled all its commitments, it has decided not to give back to it the interest it had paid, so that we are reducing our deficit by 800 million, in a way, on the Greek side. It is not very glorious, but I am not questioning the Government, which is simply fulfilling the commitments made at the European level. The aim of this amendment, however, is to know whether it intends to keep the 800 million or whether it intends to return them to Greece.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u306	I confirm to you, Mrs Rabault, that we continue to apply the Eurogroup agreement of 22 June 2018: the scheme for the retrocession of interest collected is therefore still in force. We will continue the diachronic updating of the amounts to be transferred until 2022 by the Member States in accordance with the decisions of the Eurogroup, based on the conclusions of the institutions' monitoring missions. To make a milestone, at the end of 2020, the Bank of France will have given the State the majority of the interest received, i.e. €2.7 billion. By the end of 2021, the State will have returned $1.8 billion. In 2022, the interest due from Greece will have been paid in full to the State, which will complete its surrender taking into account the timetables set by the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u307	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2085.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u308	With this appeal amendment, we wish to draw attention to the unworthy treatment that continues to be accorded to Greece and to call on the Government to restore at least the interests of the Greek sovereign debt. France's participation in the deleveraging of Greece is subject to compliance by Greece with the authoritarian measures imposed on it by its creditors. France received €2.8 billion in interest from the Greek debt; For the time being, it has returned $1.8 billion, and by 2022 it will be $200 million. What about the remaining 800 million? In order to satisfy the European Union, entire sections of Greek heritage and infrastructure have been targeted at the private sector, not to mention social declines in the chain: in 2019, the country had 35% poor people and one in three employees earned less than 317 euros per month. We participated in this disaster; We must now do everything we can to alleviate the burden on the Greeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u310	The Secretary of State has just replied on this point; I'm sending an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u312	I confirm the statement made by the Special Rapporteur: same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u313	I call the appropriations of the trust account "State financial contributions", shown in statement D. Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2343.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u314	This amendment is in line with the logic that I have already indicated in my introductory statement. I agree with the fact that the Government is investing €13 billion to support businesses. Nevertheless, out of the 13 billion, it plans to spend 100 million on the government's debt relief. The latter objective is legitimate but, in the current context, such an operation does not make sense. It would be better to use the 100 million to support a few SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u316	Mrs. Rabault, you are proposing to remove almost all resources from Program 732. The provision for debt-relief expenditure also covers the debt-relief of the State through the Public Debt Fund. However, you are very familiar with the operation of this trust account: its appropriations are assessed. In other words, the $100 million allocated to programme 732 does not prejudge the debt relief operations to be carried out in 2021, nor their amount. Your amendment is a call for financing companies in difficulty. The Government is spending an additional $20 billion under the second containment. In this trust account, LFR2, as you know, has also opened 20 billion so that the EPA can support strategic companies in difficulty on their own funds; These credits are always available. Therefore, the amendment is satisfied. I request its withdrawal; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u317	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u318	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Of the 20 billion actually opened by LFR2, 9 billion have already been invested in the companies I was quoting this morning; So there's 11 billion left. We agree on that. On the other hand, your comments confirm the absurdity of this budget, since you say that the 100 million planned do not prejudge what will be spent. It's not your fault; This is the way this CAS works. In any case, once again, this shows the absurdity. Since we have all seen this, I will withdraw this amendment, but it should be corrected one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u319	We have just over half an hour left to deal with 27 amendments. We can therefore achieve the goal that we collectively set ourselves this morning, on the sole condition that Mrs Rabault and Mrs Taurine, on whom everything now rests, meet the challenge of maintaining a steady pace... Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2074.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u320	We'll do the best we can, Mr. President! By this amendment, we call on the Government to take over control of motorway companies. In 2005, the State ceded French motorways to three multinationals. From a purely financial point of view, this privatisation was aberrant: according to the Court of Auditors, it brought down to the State less than 17 billion euros, while the fair price was estimated at 27 billion euros; So it's a $10 billion gift that we've been paying for. As the construction of the network has been carried out by the State, its operation constitutes a risk-free annuity: we have collected the capital expenditure, paid by the taxpayer, and privatized the profits, which go into the pockets of the private autoroutières companies. The evolution of the amount of dividends paid to the shareholders of these companies reflects the scale of this scam: from 950 million euros in 2009, it reached in 2016_4.7 billion. During the same period, the state, had it retained the motorways, could have earned 24 billion revenues and devoted them to the ecological transition. Three years ago, the La France unsuspecting group suggested that the Government should submit to Parliament a report on the results of these privatizations. This proposal was welcomed; As for the report, we are still waiting for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u322	This amendment was rejected by the Finance Committee. Firstly, the EUR 99 million it covers does not represent the necessary sum for its purpose. Then, the Senate created a commission of inquiry on this subject, the work of which is very helpful and extremely interesting. After hearing a number of our colleagues, including Gilles Carrez, this committee has focused on recommendations different from yours. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u324	The same opinion, for the reasons given by the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u325	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2077.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u326	The PACTE law of 22 May 2019 allowed the state to divest 52% of the French gaming capital and to retain only 20%. On the contrary, we believe that it should reinvest more in this undertaking, in order to strengthen the control of public power over gambling. It is important, in our view, that the French of the games become public again if we want to fight effectively against addictions. In 2014, for example, the company had given up one of its most profitable games, as it was one of the most addictive. Would private investors have reasond the same way? In addition, we wonder about the financial opportunity to sell such a profitable business: in 2007, it had brought back €89 million in dividends to the State. Why do you want to privatize these profits? Finally, the importance of its financial activity raises the key issue of money laundering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u328	I spoke on this subject during the consideration of the PACTE bill; But here I am the spokesman for the committee, who rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u329	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u330	I said... no, I'm kidding! Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u331	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2078.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u332	The State now holds only 23.64 % of Engie's capital; As a result of the PACTE law, he could even withdraw from it completely, after a gradual reduction in his role in the management of this enterprise. Energy is a strategic sector, which must be managed by the public authorities. Full privatisation of Engie could lead to higher tariffs and lower investments in renewable energy. The sector needs a long-term state vision. Moreover, we propose to create a public energy pole, in order to control prices and investments. In a decade, the state's share of GDF's capital, now Engie, fell from 70% to less than 24%, and the share lost three quarters of its value, falling from €43 to €13. The sale of less and less expensive shares is therefore a bad transaction for the State. In contrast, in 2016, the group paid 15 times more dividends than profits; For the period 2009-2016, its average redistribution rate is 333%, when the rate of employee participation and interest does not exceed 1%. The privatisation of Engie therefore constitutes an economic nonsense coupled with a loss of sovereignty, and implies a deterioration of the quality of service as well as of the working conditions of the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u334	This amendment was rejected in the Finance Committee, where I indicated that, in the spring of the evaluation, a point would be made about the role of the shareholder state at Engie, particularly in view of the EPA's letters to the minister which I was able to consult on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u336	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u337	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2079.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u338	The PACTE law provides for the privatisation of the ADP group, held by the state at 50.63% for a value of 9.73 billion euros, making it the second-largest stock market value of the state after EDF. Once again, this operation would be both a loss of sovereignty and an economic nonsense. In addition, the potential owner, Xavier Huillard, CEO of Vinci, claimed in Le Monde to discern at ADP levers of value creation and to persuade airlines to open new routes. These statements are, to say the least, disturbing; From an ecological point of view, this unbridled extension would result in the explosion of CO emissions. Vinci has already proved its worth in this area: at Lisbon airport, in six years, the company has doubled traffic and tripled the growth rate of passengers, not without reducing the number of agents per traveller. Since the opening of ADP's capital in 2005, ADP's workforce has been declining steadily, while over the same period there has been a doubling of traffic and a considerable increase in dividends. This opening was also accompanied by the questioning of some of the employee's social gains, as explained to us by the union representatives we heard in preparation for the review of the PACTE bill: part-time work has increased and bonuses have decreased, as well as some additional support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u340	This amendment was discussed and rejected by the Finance Committee. In addition, 1.2 million French, I believe, have called for a joint initiative referendum on the privatisation of Paris airports, which has prevented it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u342	As I indicated in my opening remarks, this will be an unfavorable opinion. I won't say any more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u343	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2080.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u344	It aims to reinvest in airports whose state has disengaged in recent years. In December 2014, it sold 49.9% of the capital of Toulouse-Blagnac airport for 308 million euros. This operation was subsequently annulled by the Paris Administrative Court of Appeal due to irregularities in the proceedings. This decision could have been the occasion of a mea culpa of the State, which could have admitted that the privatisation of the airport management company had been only a succession of errors, irregularities and even scandals. This is not the case since, in a press release dated 7 May 2019, the State Participation Agency announced its appeal in cassation. We are firmly opposed to the privatization of French airports, which leads to a loss of sovereignty. This vast warehousing of French stock exchange capital is also an economic nonsense. From an ecological point of view, finally, the unbridled expansion of traffic resulting from privatisation results in an explosion in the level of CO emissions, of which, as I have already said, Vinci is the specialist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u346	As Special Rapporteur, I am obliged to report on the opinions of the committee, which rejected this amendment. I had opposed the privatisation of Toulouse-Blagnac airport since 2015, and my opposition was only reinforced by the conditions under which it took place. In substance, I am not far from sharing the objective that you are pursuing, Mrs Taurine, but the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u348	I, for my part, do not agree with the purpose of your amendment. It is therefore for reasons different from those of the Special Rapporteur that I will ask you to withdraw it or, if necessary, I will issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u349	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2418.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u350	Throughout the covid -19 epidemic, medical equipment has been badly missed. There is only one solution to be able to meet the needs, in the future: health planning. Through this amendment, we propose the nationalization of Luxfer, which produces oxygen bottles for medical use. The company's French site is the only factory producing such bottles in Europe. Despite a profit of EUR 1 million, which grew by 55% compared to the previous year, the company's main shareholder announced the closure of the site in May 2019. The occupation of the plant by 136 employees has prevented the destruction of the work tool, which remains intact and would be immediately usable for a resumption of production. Considering that an investment by the State is necessary for the territory to benefit from this equipment, we call for the nationalization of Luxfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u351	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u352	This amendment has not been discussed by the Finance Committee. I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u353	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u354	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u355	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2426.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u356	The aim of this appeal amendment is to encourage the state to better control Sanofi, so that no dividends are paid during the crisis. There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u357	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u358	This amendment has not been discussed by the Finance Committee. The State may have other means of action. I'm sending out a wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u360	I will take the time to answer you, Mrs Taurine, because you do not demerit in defending your amendments; The task must not be easy, because they are going on! You will not be surprised by the Government's unfavorable opinion. Let me make it clear that the same applies to all the amendments concerning the Sanofi Group - Nos 2426, 2428, 2429, 2431, 2432 and 2434. There are other ways to do this than to ban the payment of dividends, to impose the total relocation of production, to prohibit dismissals or to condition tax credits. If I hear and can understand the FI Group's crusade against Sanofi, know that the Government's opinion is against this series of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u361	There's no amendment to lock up Sanofi's leaders?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u362	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2428.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u363	The aim of this appeal amendment is to encourage the State to become more involved in Sanofi's control, to ensure that ethics are respected and that compensation is paid to the victims of the Dépakine. This is an appeal amendment, since the sums mentioned in the amendment are not sufficient, in any event, to achieve the objective it pursues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u364	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2429.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u365	Sanofi announced in February 2020 the outsourcing of the production of active ingredients by placing six European plants, including French, in a dedicated, external and publicly traded cluster. Sanofi will retain 30% of the shares. A confidential memo published in the press and relayed by trade unions announces the pure and simple disposal of the group's chemical sites by 2023-2024. The company is thus disengaged from the production of 200 low-cost medicines, some of which are essential. We want the state to invest in the new hub, so as not to leave the entire management of drug production to the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u367	As you pointed out, this is an appeal amendment. The State does not set any criteria for its investment choices – or at least does not present them to Parliament. The President of the Republic has called for the relocation of activities in the health sector, but for the time being we have not seen any investment in this direction in the various plans announced. I will therefore hear your appeal, but I will give an unfavorable opinion since the amendment would not, in any case, achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u368	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2431.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u369	The aim of this appeal amendment is to encourage the State to better control Sanofi, in order to combat job losses. Since 2009, Sanofi has abolished 5000 posts and closed thirteen sites in France. Research and development staff increased from 6350 to 3500 between 2008 and 2020, due in particular to the abolition of 2000 research positions between 2008 and 2016. While we need to relocate research and production, half of the R&amp;D sector has disappeared. The crisis does not stop Sanofi: within eighteen months, with the closure of the sites in Alfortville and Strasbourg, there should be only three research sites left in France, compared to eleven ten years ago. Without trusting Sanofi for relocation and health sovereignty, we call on the State to re-engage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u370	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2432.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u371	The director of Sanofi United States said that if a vaccine was found, it would be given priority in the United States. He also called on European countries to put as much money as the US in research, thus pretending to forget the aid granted by France for many years. It is important that the aid received by the company is clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u372	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2434.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u373	We want the research tax credit not to be used to eliminate jobs. Sanofi receives 120 to 150 million euros each year since the introduction of the CIR and the CICE – tax credit for competitiveness and employment. This represents more than CIR 1 billion over the last ten years. At the same time, Sanofi divided its workforce by 2. It is therefore necessary to modify the possible uses of the research tax credit or condition its granting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u374	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2436.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u375	Nuclear maintenance, defence and renewable energy are strategic sectors in which the industrial maintenance champion Endel intervenes. But there is a great risk that this know-how will evaporate. While the parent company, Engie, has just sold its stake in Suez for 3.4 billion euros, it could have been hoped that this money would be used for new development projects that are part of the reindustrialization effort. On the contrary, Engie plans to continue its dismantling, selling its services hub, so in particular Endel. An audit shows that there is a risk of dismantling or even leaking technology. As the crisis of the Covid-19 has shown, some sectors must be protected. Nuclear maintenance is the perfect example. Given the financial situation and the fiery nature of the players, the risk of Endel falling into the scarlet of a predatory fund or a foreign company is real. Therefore, the State must acquire this company for industrial reasons as well as for reasons of national and environmental security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u376	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2438.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u377	Courage, it's almost over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u378	The aim of this amendment is to encourage the Government to increase its control over the Verallia company and to combat the current break in employment. How is it possible that a French company, which has earned billions of dividends, will announce a restructuring plan whose main measures are the non-renovation of one of the three furnaces of its Cognac glass factory and the abolition of 130 posts in France? Verallia is a symbol of the ecological transition that the Government continues to advocate. Glass, which recycles infinitely, will replace plastic in the next few years. However, in order to meet the immediate needs of shareholders, the French company, which creates jobs in France, is left to die. After Alstom, Whirlpool and Ascoval, will the state again be responsible for an industrial disaster and the sacrifice of a flagship on the altar of finance? We want to push the Government to take more shares in Verallia and to control the company's action, in order to safeguard jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u379	Mrs. Taurine, you're going to be able to take your breath! I welcome the comprehensive but rapid defence of your series of amendments! Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2348.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u380	This is a five-euro amendment – I will explain why. In the budget documents, the Government specifies each year the amount of the commissions it will pay to financial intermediaries involved in the sale or redemption of State interests. While each year it indicates an amount of EUR 200 million, the corresponding line is zero this year. Earlier, the Secretary of State explained that the appropriations for the programme which I had undressed could not be zeroed; In this case, however, he undresses an action by not providing any credit! I would therefore simply like to have confirmation of the absence of a divestiture in 2021, since the State will not be able to use financial intermediaries to sell its holdings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u381	They do it for free, it's the kind of house!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u382	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u383	As indicated in the annual performance project annexed to the PLF for 2021, Action 05 is mainly concerned with fees paid to banks for divestment operations carried out; These commissions are assessed on a flat-rate basis at 2% of the proceeds of the planned divestitures. Given the economic and market context, any further disposal of assets is now suspended. The same applies to all payments made by these commissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u384	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2347.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u385	[[Smile]] It's a four-euro amendment! I have indeed planned amendments worth between EUR 5 and 0. So you can be reassured: there are only five! Action 04 aims to abound the Definvest fund, managed by the Public Investment Bank, whose role is to invest in SMEs and ITEs. The Government plans to make a fourth payment of €10 million in 2021. In the absence of information on this in the budget documents, we would like to know the number of SMEs and ITEs in which the fund has invested over the past three or four years, whether these enterprises are spread over the whole territory or whether they are concentrated, and finally know the sectors concerned. This is therefore another appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u386	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u387	To support growth and support the anchoring of SMEs and technology ITEs, the State has called for the creation of a joint investment fund called Definvest. For a period of 15 years, this fund is managed by Bpifrance and will contribute EUR 50 million annually to EUR 10 million over five years, through equity investments with these SMEs and ETIs. The Fund's investments to date amount to EUR 12.3 million. An investment of an additional 7 million is expected by the beginning of next year. Many of the SMEs and ITEs that are the subject of these future investments are already identified. According to the information available to me, and which I will be sure of, it is too early to communicate this list because the investments are under way. In any event, I note the request of the Special Rapporteur. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u388	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2346.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u389	[[Smile]] This time it is a three-euro amendment. In the budget documents submitted to us by the Government, it appears that 11.2 billion euros will be invested in 2021, and of this sum, 210 million euros are directed towards "the financing of new capital operations for a notional amount estimated at 210 million euros, likely to intervene in 2021, the character of which remains confidential in order not to prejudice the property interests of the State". By admitting that out of the EUR 11.2 billion, the allocation of EUR 210 million remains completely confidential, there are still EUR 11 billion for which we have no information on the sectors concerned or the criteria that will lead you to support one company rather than another. I think that national representation should have a little more information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u390	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u391	CASPFE's programming – the trust account "State financial participations" – provides €11 billion to finance the operations to strengthen the equity of strategic companies deemed vulnerable due to the economic consequences resulting from the health crisis of the covid-19. These are the appropriations allocated in LFR2 last April under programme 358 which were not consumed in 2020. The EPA conducted in April, with the help of financial advice, an analysis of some 20 strategic non-financial listed French companies identified as vulnerable priority companies; This list includes companies in the EPA portfolio, the Bpifrance portfolio and private companies whose state is not a shareholder. To answer you even more accurately, the estimate of the need was based on assumptions of total loss of turnover for three to six months. This exercise resulted in a gross estimate of the need for recapitalisation. An update of the need at the end of August, after the semi-annual accounts, reduced the number of companies deemed fragile and the level of need. Another update is under way to estimate the impact of the re-defining measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u392	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2345.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u393	A two-euro amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u394	[[Smile]] A two-euro amendment, exactly! Of the EUR 12.9 billion proposed by the Government for action 01 of programme 731, the budget documents indicate that EUR 1.7 billion would already be used. While the various allocations of this amount are, on the whole, fairly detailed, I wonder about the EUR 131 million for multilateral development banks. Indeed, it appears that the timetable which had been set has not been respected on several occasions; It would be interesting if the Government could tell us why.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u395	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u396	I congratulate President Rabault on the extremely precise drafting of her appeal amendments, which went from 5 to 2 euros – and, if it is not wrong, the next one will be 1 euro... The Central African States Development Bank decided in June 2014 to increase its capital. France, a shareholder of 0.83%, had expressed reservations about the terms of the transaction. Since then, French participation in the capital increase has been conditioned by several improvements, notably in terms of transparency and governance. Despite some reforms, not all conditions have been met to date and there is no assurance that they will be met in 2021, as discussions with BDEAC are continuing. At present, France's participation in a further capital increase is still expected. I therefore call on you to withdraw this amendment and, failing that, to issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u397	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2344.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u398	This amendment to EUR 1 relates to a line of action 04 "Other financial investments of a heritage nature". In the budget documents submitted to us, the Government indicated that it wished to establish a regional fund to which the State would subscribe through the CAS "State financial participations", amounting to EUR 250 million, and specified that the management of the fund would be entrusted to an operator whose modalities of designation remained to be defined. I regret a little, Madam Minister, that the Government also gives little details about this regional fund, which will obviously affect all of our territories – we don't even know what it will be used for. It also does not specify how the operator to manage this fund will be designated. Can you give us some information about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u400	In response to your appeal amendment, I would like to point out that the EUR 250 million will be paid from the Competitiveness programme of the "Economic Recovery Plan" mission to CASPFE, so that the State can invest in a regional fund. This abundance is part of the "Strengthening Business Equity" component of the Economic Council of State-Regions on 17 July. The Directorate-General for Enterprise and the Directorate-General for the Treasury are still working, in coordination with the regions, to develop the precise criteria according to which the State will abound regional funds; In particular, the aim is to specify the target undertakings, the investments targeted and the amounts of intervention. As things stand, I can tell you that the creation of a regional fund could take place within Bpifrance and that it could be subscribed by the State through CASPFE, but these points remain in the process of arbitration. Of course, we will keep the national representation informed of the progress of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u401	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2350.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u402	The four amendments to the Additional Rule after Rule 55, co-signed by the Socialist and Allied Members, are intended, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance had committed himself to doing, to match up – I know that everyone does not like the word – state aid to companies in difficulty because of the Covid-19. In fact, it is simply a matter of the companies benefiting from the aid – 20 billion euros voted under the PLFR2, plus 20 billion euros voted under the PLFR4 – committing themselves on certain points, as is the case in other democracies. In the Netherlands, for example, with a liberal government, I note that when Air France-KLM sought state support, it had to submit to the Dutch Parliament a plan with commitments on various points ranging from decarbonisation of the economy to social commitments. I do not see why our country should be less-so-called than the Netherlands. That is why I propose, with this amendment, that state aid be accompanied by certain commitments such as the establishment of a standardised carbon balance or the development of an investment plan to reduce CO emissions and take account of the effects on employment – for our group, it is obviously not a question of sacrificing employment, far from it, but of balancing the various issues. In any case, we cannot remain silent while the other European Parliaments are asking for commitments from companies to benefit from public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u403	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u404	I hear what you are saying and I appreciate the European vision that you are defending, but we will not agree. You want to set an obligation to report CSR – corporate social responsibility – much stronger than the one that currently exists, with a high level of constraint and applying within an extremely short period of time. In the period of crisis that we are going through, this constraint does not seem appropriate for several reasons. First of all, as you know, since the debate took place in the context of the review of the PLFR3, the National Assembly decided that, with regard to the support of the shareholder State through the EPA, companies benefiting from the €20 billion of appropriations should fully and exemplaryly integrate the objectives of societal and environmental responsibility into their strategy – it seems to me the result of an amendment by Mrs Peyrol –, particularly in the fight against climate change and strict compliance with the Paris Agreement. On a practical level, you want companies to publish very precise information on their greenhouse gas emissions in a short time frame, while asking the CGDD to define regulatory pathways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for each company for 10 years. However, a methodology must be specified by decree, as you know very well, and it would take, let us be clear, months for the CGDD to draw up the documents you are asking for, a fortiori if it had to take into account the specificities of each sector. Finally, if companies did not comply with the mandatory reporting requirement that you want to impose on them – which in practice will be impossible for them within the deadlines you set for them – they would be fined 2% of the total turnover and punished for the total amount of aid received if the requested reports were not published. Your amendment provides for both sanctions to be cumulative, but even if they were not, your proposal is a punitive approach that, in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing, cannot be that of the Government. For all these reasons, I ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u405	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2351.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u406	It aims to ensure that large companies receiving public aid cannot pay dividends or buy back shares. I stress that this amendment only concerns large companies: as far as SMEs are concerned, it is normal for their managers, who do not use wages, to be paid in the form of dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u407	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u408	We have already discussed this point, but, out of respect for national representation and to refocus the debate on the review of the special account appropriations, I would like to recall some objective data. With the exception of Thales, FDJ and Orange – the latter two companies did not use the partial business arrangement – all the companies in the EPA's listed portfolio simply cancelled their dividend payments in 2020. On the substance, I recall a legal element which cannot be ignored by the Special Rapporteur: a general ban on dividends does not have a concrete link with economic support measures and, by taking such a measure, the State would be exposed to litigation. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u409	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u410	I have already asked your colleague about this point earlier. Whatever you say, the state still received €300 million in dividends in 2020 due to its participations through the EPA, and your draft budget expects it to receive €1 billion in 2021! This clearly shows that the prohibition you refer to does not work, even in companies whose state is a shareholder.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u411	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2354.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u412	This is again an appeal amendment to the Government. We all have in mind, in our constituencies, examples of large groups, sometimes multinationals, which are trying to dissipate the companies, which are profitable, which they own: sometimes we close a research and development service, sometimes we relocate a marketing service... All of this is done silently, and it seems to me that the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery would be in a better position to monitor these practices more closely. In my department, a very profitable shoe factory, which generates more than 32 million euros of turnover and 2.5 million euros of net profit per year, sees its services closed one after the other by the Honeywell group, in the way of an apartment sale. It seems to me that the State should take an interest in the companies concerned, particularly when they receive aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u413	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2349.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u414	This is a proposal that I make every year since the beginning of the legislature. No manager would agree to invest in securities and not to receive dividends from them. However, the State Equity Agency invests in securities, but the dividends are paid into the general budget. I said earlier that if dividends had been included in the special trust account "State financial contributions" since its inception in 2006, its balance would reach 88 billion! I repeat: 88 billion! The Agency has received 33 billion from the general State budget since the same date; The surplus is therefore EUR 55 billion. It would be wiser if the EPA could see the dividends and every year we could vote for the amount left of them and the amount paid to abound the general budget. I know that the adoption of this measure would involve an amendment to the LOLF, and I have no doubt that this is what you are going to answer to me; Nevertheless, I maintain that this arrangement would be more sensible, democratically and economically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u415	You have no political argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u416	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u417	I will avoid giving the Special Rapporteur an answer which she already sees in the outline. I welcome the regularity with which it opens this debate every year. She ordered and obtained a report on the subject in the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u418	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u419	Here I stand for the position of the Government: its opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u420	I call the appropriations from the financial assistance account "Advances to various government departments or agencies managing public services", entered in statement D. Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2407.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u421	It concerns advances, which are not included in the Maastrichtian deficit and debt. In 2020, the appropriations entered in programme 823 "Advances to separate government agencies and managing public services" amounted to EUR 370 million, "to be able to meet unforeseen and limited cash requirements, which may appear at a later date". This is therefore an emergency advance. However, the draft budget reduces this amount by EUR 116 million. The aim of this amendment is to restore it to 2020, precisely in order to deal with urgent and unexpected situations. As the crisis is not yet behind us, these funds could prove useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u423	The decline in air traffic in 2020 puts difficulties on aerodrome operators, whose security and safety expenses, known as "regalian", are usually financed by the proceeds of the airport tax. In 2020, airport operators received an advance from the Government in the amount of EUR 300 million entered in the LFR3. These advances have been made over a very long period of time: the repayment will take place over 10 years, in order to take into account the likely gradual resumption of traffic, as you have indicated. A three-year repayment delay is also foreseen, i.e. the first repayments will only begin from 2024. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u424	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2405.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u425	It is intended to provide for advances to finance the legitimate safety actions of aerodromes. In examining the PLFR3, we voted to open a line of EUR 300 million in appropriations. The decline in traffic has meant a reduction in the taxes paid to airfields, and thus in their resources. However, security operations must be funded. We are likely to face difficulties still in 2020: the amendment aims to make an advance of EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u426	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u427	I am sorry: I gave the opinion on this amendment in my reply to the previous one. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u428	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2408.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u429	I admit he's a little bit biscorned. It concerns action 01 "Advances to ONIAM – National Medical Accident Compensation Office – in respect of compensation to benfluorex victims". I took advantage of the existence of this line to propose an advance of 35 million euros to compensate the victims of the covid-19. Together with my colleagues Régis Juanico and Christian Hutin, we have tabled a bill to create a fund to compensate these victims. Indeed, it is known that some have sequelae. The Government has already taken a step with the recognition of covid -19 as an occupational disease for caregivers, but we believe that the problem is broader. There is certainly no adequate line, which is why I have chosen a health line, in order to question the Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u430	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u431	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u432	Inquiry received. You are proposing appropriations in a programme dedicated to the compensation fund for the victims of the covid-19, which Parliament has not accepted the creation of. As you mentioned, the 825 programme is intended to cover ONIAM's cash requirements within the framework of the specific national solidarity scheme to facilitate the steps taken by persons claiming to be victims of benfluorex. Since the inception of the programme in 2014, ONIAM has not had to apply for the funds allocated under programme 825, which exists only to compensate for any refusal to repay. I hear that this is an appeal amendment. However, its adoption would have the effect of reducing the appropriations of the annex budget for civil aviation to a level which, as you know, would deprive air traffic control support, which the latter particularly needs, in view of the health crisis, of such an effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u433	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2406.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u434	Finally, it is an amendment to the euro. In particular, the account allows the State to make advances on CAP subsidies – the common agricultural policy. Each year, this account finances the payment of EUR 10 billion to farmers; France is then reimbursed by the European Union. So far, the appropriations entered in this account amounted to EUR 10 billion, if I am not mistaken, Madam Secretary of State. The Government is planning EUR 8.3 billion this year, explaining that this amount is sufficient because the surplus allowed the other years to fill the delays in the payment of the CAP, which we have all heard about. I would like the Secretary of State to confirm that this reduction is only in line with the resolution of the delays, not with a reduction in the payments expected under CAP 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u435	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u436	First of all, I confirm that France has not experienced payment delays since 2019: we have solved this problem with the European Commission. The appropriations entered each year include a security margin of EUR 1 billion or EUR 2 billion, in order to guarantee the continuity of the payment of agricultural aid; It will be the same in 2021. The appropriations will be allocated between an advance paid in February for the pre-financing of the CAP 2020, an advance paid in October and then December for the pre-financing of the CAP 2020-21, and a safety margin. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u437	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-07-O1066.u438	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Final reading of the draft law extending the state of health emergency; Further to the review of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the appropriations for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
