ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u1	Before I begin our agenda, I would like to take stock of two issues relating to the organization of our work. I have received several requests that this afternoon's sitting be suspended so that Members can read the Prime Minister's announcements on-line. I should like to inform you that the meeting will be suspended for half an hour from 16.00. On the other hand, our country will commemorate tomorrow the victory of May 8, 1945. On this occasion I will lay a sheaf in front of the memorial to the dead, room of the four columns, at ten o'clock. Should the Assembly hold a meeting tomorrow morning, it will be suspended to allow those who so wish to attend the ceremony.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions (No. 2902, 2905). Before we begin our work, I would remind you that in this period of health crisis, 75 Members can now meet in the Chamber, in proportion to the size of the groups. This number will rise to 150 next week. On the other hand, the sanitary rules you know continue to apply naturally: microphones are cleaned during the session, speakers are invited not to put their hands on the microphones and to use different microphones, the distances between the participants must be respected, the entrances and exits are staggered. Finally, let me remind you that speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u3	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u4	Who could have even imagined what we're going through right now? Who could have predicted the unthinkable? I believe that if we had been told this at the beginning of the year, many would have believed – and I, no doubt, the first – in a fictional scenario, the scenario of an implausible catastrophe, failing to be quite unlikely. And yet, what we are living is neither a bad dream nor an illusion of optics. Our economy is at a standstill, our schools are closed and the evidence of everyday life has become so much uncertainty, so much anguish for each of our fellow citizens. In this historic ordeal, our country has remained standing. I have a thought full of gratitude and admiration for the caregivers, who struggle every day and give the word "engagement" its strongest, most complete meaning. I do not forget all those who have allowed our country not to sink into chaos and collective panic: the employees of food shops, garbagemen, police and gendarmerie forces, teachers, delivery workers or social workers. I cannot quote them all, but under these particularly difficult conditions all have faced. You also do not mind me having a thought for the children, who, according to the consecrated expression, "do not stand in place" and who, however, had to stay at home, away from school and their friends, in a context that has seen, at times, family tensions multiply. It is to these children that we will have to think about tomorrow, because this health crisis reminds us of what we are basically: fragile beings, on a planet that suffers. In the challenge before us, the answer must be a first democratic response. I welcome the mobilisation of parliamentarians, who, under often difficult conditions, on these benches or from home, in their constituency, have continued their activity because even when the life of the country seems to stop, democracy never stops. In a very difficult time, parliamentarians knew, first in the Senate, and then yesterday in committee, in the Assembly, to thoroughly examine and amend the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. Our responsibility today is overwhelming. If deciding has never been more difficult, commenting has never been easier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u5	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u6	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, FI and LT groups]] I am not talking here about information, which is obviously indispensable, nor about criticism, which is always salutary; I am talking about the spirit of controversy, which has found in recent weeks an extraordinary field of development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u7	Give us examples!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u8	We could find them in the government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u9	A little calm, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u10	Between those who doubt nothing and those who doubt everything, there is sometimes a narrow space; It is in this space that the spirit of responsibility dwells. The decisions taken so far have nothing to do with this, and the Government is fully aware of this. He knows that the text that is proposed to you, which aims to extend the state of health emergency, is not a blank text. On the contrary, it measures the immense responsibility, the historical responsibility that is its own, which is yours today. The state of health emergency has only one purpose: to enable the most rapid and effective fight against the epidemic. This bill is not a whim of the Government; It is, in the unanimous opinion of the Scientific Council, a necessity. The Scientific Council unanimously considered that all the mechanisms for combating the Covid-19 epidemic, including those provided for in the emergency law of 23 March, were still necessary, given the health situation. It seemed that after six weeks in which the entire country learned to live differently, it was necessary to propose some targeted changes to the state of health emergency regime, in order to strengthen this legal framework. However, it was above all the perspective of the deconfinition that led to an accelerated review of this bill, taking into account the legislative changes that it entailed, and to a parliamentary review consistent with the coming into force on May 11. The breakdown that should gradually take place as of May 11 will not be a pure, simple and immediate return to life before. In other words, it will not result in the immediate lifting of all the measures that have so far prevented the worst. Thinking that deconfinity will mark a return to normal would be a serious mistake. Lives are at stake and the battle is not yet won, far from it – you know it. It was therefore essential to secure and extend the legal framework for the state of health emergency, integrating the challenges of deconfining. I am thinking in particular of the regulation of transport and establishments receiving from the public. It will also be a matter of prohibiting or restricting movement, as well as access to and use of means of transport, in order to be able, for example, to impose the wearing of a mask in certain cases. The draft law therefore provides a number of clarifications to guide the implementation of such measures and to strengthen the safeguards, including judicial safeguards, which are attached to them. The general conditions of these measures will be laid down by decree, after the advice of the Scientific Council. I stress this point – even if we will probably have the opportunity to return to it: the individual measures taken on this basis can only target one category of persons, those entering the national territory or arriving in an ultramarine territory or in Corsica or coming from one of these territories. The individual measures to be taken will be taken by a reasoned decision of the representative of the State, on the proposal of the Director General of the Regional Health Agency, and on medical evidence of the infection in case of solitary confinement. Of course, individual measures prohibiting any exit may be appealed at any time to the freedom and detention judge, and a measure may not exceed 14 days without the decision of the judge, unless the person concerned consents. Finally, the measures in question cannot in any case be extended beyond 30 days. I now come to the creation of an information system, because the tracing system is an essential tool for controlling contamination chains. Anything that can help fight this virus must be exploited; not just how, of course, but by scrupulously ensuring respect for the principles to which we are all attached – we will have an opportunity to discuss them. Through this information system, it is a matter of collecting a large number of medical and non-medical data, and bringing them to the attention of various stakeholders, with five distinct steps, which I will detail. First step: the collection of the positive results of the tests by the laboratories. Second step: Level 1 traffic by professionals of first resort in the city or hospital to define the first circle of contact cases. Third stage: Level 2 traffic by the health insurance platforms, the " brigades", in order to enrich the list of contact cases beyond the first circle and check that no positive cases have escaped the level 1 traffic before giving prophylactic instructions to those concerned. Next will be level 3 traffic by regional health agencies, RHAs, for the chains of contamination, clustered cases and follow-up of compliance with the instructions by those concerned. Finally, local and national epidemiological surveillance will be carried out by Santé publique France and the Directorate-General for Health. I say this forcefully, so that things are clear: this information system is intended to identify persons infected or likely to be infected, to collect information necessary to identify persons who have been in contact with them, to organize tests of medical biology of screening and to achieve anything useful in the fight against the spread of the virus. If the law comes in, if we debate it today, it is only to remove the obstacles to medical confidentiality. The files can in principle be created by regulation, but, in this case, the breach of medical confidentiality resulting from the dissemination, in the framework of the tracing, of information sensitive to a large number of stakeholders, going far beyond the persons who care for them, requires the use of a legislative provision – and that is very good. The Government's words have been clear and will be kept: the data collected will not be collected for the purposes of an application; the information systems we are talking about are legally and technically independent of the StopCovid application. The Contact Covid teleservice developed in the amelipro environment will serve as a system of exchanges between healthcare professionals and health insurance platforms, ensuring the collection of identification and monitoring data. A provision is made for RSAs to have read and write access to contact covid data and to extract contact data. A SIDEP, an integrated screening and prevention service, relating to the biological test of Covid-19, will also be deployed to all laboratories and structures authorized to perform the diagnosis of Covid-19. It will enable the collection of all Covid-19 analysis results within a single database, and will be accessible in real time to health professionals and contact search authorities. The implementation of the measures I have just detailed – and it seemed to me important to do so in this opening statement – presupposes a decree in the Council of State, which will be made after public notice of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, the CNIL. He's in preparation. The debunking that will begin in a few days marks a step in the fight we have waged against this damn virus; one step among others, because the battle will be long: nothing would be worse than thinking the opposite and acting after May 11 as if nothing were. Parliamentary review of the bill began in the Senate. The text has been enriched in several ways; I am thinking in particular of the strengthening of labour law guarantees for persons covered by quarantine measures, the explicit prohibition for the new law to serve as a legal basis for the deployment of the StopCovid application, or the establishment of a Covid-19 monitoring and liaison committee to involve civil society and Parliament in operations to combat the epidemic by monitoring contacts and the deployment of the information systems provided for that purpose. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to build a balanced, effective text in the fight against the virus and, of course, respecting the principles to which we are committed. I have no doubt that you will take a demanding look at this text: it must, however, be given the strength and confidence without which the struggles always turn into defeats.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u11	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] It concerns the organization of our meeting. This extremely important text contains measures of deprivation of liberty and comes at a tragic moment for our country: nearly 26,000 deaths, an economy in the process of collapse, according to the appropriate formula used, and not lightly, the Prime Minister. Before we look at it in substance, I would therefore like, without insulting the Secretary of State, to express my astonishment at the fact that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for Solidarity and Health nor the Minister for the Interior are on these benches. We deplore him; This is no doubt a further sign of the lack of consideration given to the National Assembly since the beginning of this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] The parliamentary fact-finding mission on the impact, management and consequences of the epidemic, which I have the honour to be the Vice-President with you, Mr President, is becoming increasingly a press conference of the executive. The functioning of our assembly is certainly affected by the circumstances, but after the Senate began to examine this text, in a somewhat surprising way, the same executive could have been represented here at the highest level. Again, I regret that he is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u13	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u14	Six weeks ago, France faced the most serious epidemic in its recent history. In order to meet the needs of this exceptional context, the law of 23 March 2020 created a new regime: the state of health emergency, then declared by Parliament for a period of two months. Fortunately, the situation has improved in recent days, as the general containment of the population has stopped the spread of the virus and prevented the saturation of our hospitals, but in many ways it remains a matter of concern. It is up to us to shoulder our responsibilities and ensure that the results of efforts over the course of fifty days of containment are not spoiled by a second wave of the epidemic. For this reason, the Government is submitting, under conditions once again dictated by the urgency, a bill to extend the state of emergency and to amend the regime on an ad hoc basis. The Law Committee did a good job yesterday, despite the very limited review deadlines. The text adopted by the Senate was undoubtedly an improvement of the original draft, but some provisions remained to be refined. In particular, the discussions we had before and during its consideration in committee allowed us to adopt amendments on two important issues: the return to normality of pre-trial detention and unintentional criminal responsibility. Article 1 of this bill provides for the extension of the state of health emergency. The Secretary of State reminded us why this measure is absolutely necessary in view of the current situation, which unfortunately will last at least a few weeks. This extension was originally scheduled until July 23, which was extended by the Senate to July 10. I agree with both options, and I propose that you accept that of senators. Article 2 specifies the provisions which lay down the general measures to be taken by the Prime Minister. These adjustments are intended to regulate travel, transportation, and the opening of schools and shops. We come out of the binary logic, closing or authorizing, which prevails today: it is relevant. It is normal that the text should not go into the details of these regulations. I reminded the committee yesterday that there is a need to distinguish the state of emergency from the state of health, which we are going to change, and the deconfinination plan, which is part of the Government's action. Quarantine and isolation shall be the responsibility of the individual, except in the case of travellers entering the national territory or travelling either to Corsica or overseas; sanctions remain in place for them. The regulatory conditions for these measures are the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the individual measures, the Prefect. The Senate has changed these provisions a great deal: we will have an opportunity to come back to them. The committee has validated most of the amendments made by the Senate to section 6, but not the amendments relating to the duration of the implementation of information systems, which have been discussed and which we will have to clarify. On the other hand, we have provided useful clarifications regarding the protection of the identification data of the persons concerned, particularly in the field of research, and the nature of the health data that can be collected. Finally, the committee adopted the principle of the non-remuneration of healthcare professionals for this collection – a principle that will undoubtedly need to be refined during the examination of the article – and the strengthening of Parliament's control over this mechanism, given the challenges it poses with regard to respect for the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. I want to go back to the commission's fruitful work on two of the Senate's criminal initiatives. With regard to criminal responsibility, the Senate's drafting presented a number of difficulties. The committee adopted two identical amendments by Laurence Vichnievsky and Florent Boudie. As a result of concerted work, they are likely to respond to concerns expressed by public and private decision-makers. Our objective was for the judge to take into account the exceptional conditions under which the decision was taken when assessing the decision-maker's responsibility. Article 121-3 of the Criminal Code is therefore supplemented in order to take account of the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the events in the event of a health disaster. It is not a question of mitigating responsibility or exempting anyone, which our fellow citizens would not understand. In accordance with the rule of law, we simply specify the circumstances which the judge considers in order to assess in concrete terms the responsibility of the persons concerned. Lastly, with regard to pre-trial detention, the procedure adopted by the Senate for amending the Government's authority to make an order, even though the order had already been published regularly, seemed to be unprecedented and its effects uncertain. The committee therefore adopted an amendment by Laetitia Avia and the La République en marche group, which included in the body of the order the modalities for a gradual return to the ordinary law of pre-trial detention, as soon as the courts resumed their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, I hope that our work will take place as calmly as it was yesterday in committee, which does not affect the richness of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u17	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u18	Today, we are again faced with a difficult task: to extend the state of health emergency to allow the French to see better days and to get out of confinement. If the latter applied almost uniformly, on the contrary, the defunction promises to be infinitely complex, as it must embrace an immense diversity of situations. I am certain, however, that its success will be based on mutual trust, on the care and concern we take from each other, on the responsibility of all. Everyone must continue to translate into action the words we now write at the end of our messages: "Take care of you and your loved ones. » The Government must assume the immense responsibility of ensuring the health security of the French while allowing the gradual resumption of social, school, economic and cultural life. Parliament's constitutional tasks – to legislate, to monitor, to evaluate – must also be fully assured. The committee that I have the honour of chairing takes all its part. In recent weeks, we have met on numerous occasions to monitor and evaluate the Government's action in our areas of competence, with respect for fundamental norms and freedoms as a compass, so that the fight against the epidemic can continue with the weapons of the rule of law. With regard to this text, once again, the quality of our work has in no way been sacrificed to urgency. Everyone quickly seized it; There have been many exchanges between us, with senators, with the Government. The rapporteur recalled the richness of our work: more than 12 hours of in-depth debates followed three hours of hearings on Tuesday morning, which were essential to enlighten us. We have collectively ensured that the freedoms, the effectiveness of the measures provided for, are strictly necessary and proportionate to the gravity of the situation. I had thus informed the Prime Minister of my reservations about the initial quarantine and isolation regime. Its current wording provides it with adequate guidance. I also want to return to the crucial issue of pre-trial detention. After eight hours of hearings, a consensus emerged in the committee: we did not agree to an extension of the procedure as a matter of law, without an adversarial debate, considering that this was an excessive derogation from the fundamental principles of our criminal law. At the end of this collective and effective parliamentary work, protecting the freedoms and rights of the defence, our committee decided yesterday that we would return to common law on 11 May. We can all congratulate ourselves on that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u19	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u20	On the other hand, the tool provided for in Article 6, although necessary, does not please us. We have supervised it by ensuring that respect for individual freedoms, data protection and the protection of the health of the French people is reconciled. Our committee will ensure close and continuous monitoring of its implementation. We have also maintained the removal by the Senate of the Government's authority to take action on this tool by order. As our assembly gradually returns to its usual functioning, our action can no longer be conditioned by urgency alone. Like many of us, I want the legislator's prerogatives to be exercised again in a full and complete manner. The authorizations to legislate by ordinances must, as always, be examined with extreme attention and strictly justified by the circumstances. Otherwise, it is Parliament's responsibility to legislate. I will take care of this as well as other issues at the heart of our commission's work, including the extension of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as the SILT law, as well as the intelligence law. If the crisis challenges our institutions, the Republic needs a strong Parliament, which holds its full place, and on which the French can rely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u21	That's what we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the confidence that I mentioned at the beginning of this speech requires that we respect all our commitments. It requires transparency and the full exercise by our Parliament of its oversight functions. She finally demands listening. Last week, in committee, we heard the representatives of the local elected representatives, as we all mean, each in his constituency, the elected representatives, the doctors, the intermediate bodies, the entrepreneurs, the teachers, the parents of the pupils, all the citizens, because I am convinced that all have a stone to bring to the building of deconfinement. Let us allow them to do so and let us trust them, for trust is only valid if it is reciprocal. Finally, I would like to express my own deep confidence in our ability to succeed collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u23	Mr Andre Chassaigne has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u24	[["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] Reference to the Regulation on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 86. The bill that sets out various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic is being presented to the Council of Ministers today. He asks us to allow the Government to legislate by means of ordinances in a number of areas: experimental arrangements, labour, self-employed workers, jurors, criminal proceedings, military, fixed-term contracts, assisted contracts, sports federations, hunters, competitions, visas, hospital civil service, pensions, restaurant titles, victims of nuclear tests, tunnel under the Channel and I am passing. An indigestible salmigondis that children could call glubi-boulga.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u26	Welcome to Casimir!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u27	How will the House be able to work in good conditions, knowing that it will only have the text on Monday for consideration in a public sitting on Thursday, after it has passed into committee? How much longer, Mr President, will we tolerate this humiliation of our Assembly? How much longer will we be willing to pretend to be legislating?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u28	Your speech has nothing to do with our agenda, nor with Rule 86(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u29	If, Mr President, he is fully bound by Rule 86(1).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u30	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] The demonstration is a little lunar, but keep going.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u31	No, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups. – MM. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Sébastien Chenu also applaud]] I am basing myself on this Rule of Procedure to draw the consequences of the remarks made by the Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, who reminded us that our House must be respected and work in good conditions. However, the bill by which the Government requests that we allow it to legislate by order will only be presented to us on Monday, for consideration in the House on Thursday, after a visit to committee on Tuesday or Wednesday. How do you want us to work properly under these conditions? How can we conduct the necessary consultations? How can we propose amendments? Once again, our assembly is humiliated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u33	[[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] For those who do not know it, article 86, paragraph 1, provides that "the appointment of rapporteurs and the submission, printing and making available of their reports and texts adopted by the committees shall take place within a time limit such that the National Assembly is in a position to discuss the drafts and proposals in accordance with the Constitution".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u34	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u35	A health emergency bill was discussed and voted for the first time here on March 21. The country was then in a state of starvation in the face of the pandemic and its ravages. How would he not have been? The population as a whole, simple citizens or experienced epidemiologists, and of course all of us, bearing the political decision, were seized if not stunned by the suddenness and magnitude of the crisis. What to do? How to organize? What course to follow? No one can claim that the answers to these questions were self-evident. That is why, if our criticisms are severe, we also measure the difficulty of facing such a challenge, unprecedented in the history of the country and even of humanity. Yes, art is difficult, but criticism is still necessary. However, two months later, with a little hindsight, we believe that the prolongation of the state of emergency would have deserved that we could take stock of its implementation. However, there is no record, which is regrettable, because we are convinced that the state of emergency, in that it has led to the concentration of powers in the hands of the executive, to put our democracy under attack by limiting it, has been counterproductive. It is not impossible that this authoritarian logic has weighed, for example, in the worrying distinction made by France within the European countries, that of the country where the people today have the least confidence in their leaders to fight the Covid-19 epidemic. This confidence is, however, indispensable. Professor Jean-François Delfraissy recalls, together with the entire scientific and medical community: there can be no effective fight against coronavirus and pandemic without the support and confidence of the population. But this confidence is very damaged by the exercise of your power: a centralized, personalized power, based on the false and somewhat crazy idea that our France, republican up to the limits of its soul, would cultivate the nostalgia of a benevolent monarchic authority. For three years, Emmanuel Macron has decreed and your majority, as a good pupil, has ensured that the prince's edicts are promulgated as soon as possible. The more obvious it became that the results of this policy were moving away from the search for the common good, the more social setbacks have accumulated, the more the contempt of people who are "nothing", the less trust was at the rendezvous. In the absence of confidence, you have become accustomed to tearing away by ever more authoritarian forms of government what you could not obtain by consent and even less by membership. The right to challenge and protest, that of the movement of yellow vests, like that of retreats, has been conquered at the price of what violence, how many lives broken? Yes, when the health crisis of the Covid-19 began, this indispensable confidence was already badly damaged. But the French are thus made that they set aside quarrels and disagreements in order to face the storm. They are not those Refractory Gauls, those camels you wanted to reduce them to and that you should walk with the wand. They are an ancient, responsible people with a high awareness of the common interest and the duties that accompany them. In short, a people with patriotism in the heart. From the beginning, you have logically achieved the national unity you were demanding, not only in the population but also on these benches. We are your most fierce opponents, but you have found us ready to participate, alongside you, in the collective effort required to fight this virus. Yet, very quickly, the unpreparation and accumulation of the scaffolding, the untruths advanced with aloof and against the evidence, have once again dispelled this fragile bond of trust. It was discovered that the mask stocks had not been reconstructed, that if we were not to wear masks, it was mainly because we lacked masks. It was found that the recommendations of the World Health Organization – WHO – even the most recent ones, in anticipation of a serious pandemic of respiratory disease, had been ignored, as had recently been the alarms of hundreds of emergency services and heads of hospital services and health personnel, denouncing the lack of resources and irresponsible flow policy. We also wondered about the meaning of the paradoxical injunctions that were issued by your Government: "Stay at home! "Go to work", "Open the construction sites". It was not understood that the actual uncertainties about the nature and behaviour of this virus were not sufficient to explain. According to the then Minister of Health, the risk of spreading the pandemic since Wuhan was zero. Another was able to declare that there was no need to test. And so on. The committee of inquiry which we have asked for the constitution will have to trace the titubant path that you have followed in recent weeks. But as you are now calling for an extension of the state of emergency, we have reason to ask why you promulgated it two months ago. Perhaps it did not only address the need to provide a legal framework for the containment of the population, an essential step in the absence of any plan B, because of the lack of means to test massively, isolate and break transmission chains. How can you not guess that you have thus sought to restore the authority that you lacked by multiplying the cracks? Instead of strengthening this authority, the state of emergency produced the opposite. The authoritarian and anti-democratic nature of the decisions that accompany it has fuelled the distrust of the people in their leaders. Moreover, it is paradoxical to ask, in the same week, on the one hand for the extension of the state of emergency and, consequently, for the concentration of powers in the hands of the executive, and, on the other hand, for the rejection of responsibility on a multitude of economic actors, politicians who organize deconfination in the territories. What a strange paradox that the dogmatic liberalism that holds you from a compass and makes you resort to any comment to the exceptional regime! You are "addicts", so to speak, which worries us because, when the exception becomes the rule, the rule can no longer be heard. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency by its very nature creates a stormy climate. The speeches of the President of the Republic bear witness to this. On 12 March, his first speech to announce confinement was directed towards national solidarity, cooperation, civicism, mutual aid and the accountability of all French. The next speech, the one following the state of emergency vote, was of another tonality, martial this time, relying on a warring semantics. This speech has undoubtedly changed the very philosophy of the fight against coronavirus. But the fight against this virus is not a war. The German president, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, responded with intelligence and courage to Emmanuel Macron: "No, this pandemic is not a war. Nations do not oppose other nations, soldiers against other soldiers. It's a test of our humanity. » [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] "A test of our humanity": the formula is not only beautiful, it is fair and it resonates strangely if we compare the results of our strategy for the health state of the country and the level of confidence in its leaders with those of our German neighbours: this would be a good "benchmarking" exercise, to take up an expression that is dear to you... Therefore, before engaging in a debate on the extension of the state of emergency, national representation would be entitled to request, and honour to do so, a serious assessment of its first application. We are convinced that in order to regain the confidence and support of the French in the measures to combat the pandemic, we need not a state of emergency but an additional democracy. Democracy is not the enemy of efficiency, it is the condition. In his memoirs, General de Gaulle, referring to the First World War, welcomed the fact that, throughout this terrible conflict, the National Assembly had been able to continue to monitor and evaluate the Government's action. The story is sometimes good counselor. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] The Covid-19 is a formidable challenge. He is not the only one we will have to face in the future. Another is the climate or the sharing of wealth. They will be raised by several hands, sharing choices, rather than by force or coercion that have demonstrated their impotence. Only democracy is effective. Imposing as many people as possible the will of a minority is not. That is not, of course, the spirit of our institutions, and that is why we ask you to reject this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u36	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u37	I understand the fears you expressed, Mr. Little. Everyone measures the urgency of our situation, too, in such a context, rejecting this text cannot be an option. Indeed, the epidemic is not behind us and it can still get worse. You know the health situation, the number of hospitalizations, the number of deaths per day. The Scientific Council, unanimously, recognized the need to extend all the measures applied, including those resulting from the state of health emergency. The rejection of this text is not an option either in that it would offend the French who are waiting for the deconfinement to see their loved ones again or to resume a professional activity. It would offend caregivers who have been investing body and soul for weeks to treat our fellow citizens, and perhaps also parliamentarians who have been working on this bill for several days. We have a responsibility to do everything we can to achieve this definity. With this bill, the Government is not asking you for a blank. Moreover, control has never ceased since the first bill establishing a state of health emergency. The Chair of the Law Commission has clearly reaffirmed that oversight will continue to be exercised in a timely manner. I would also like to thank President Richard Ferrand, the committee chairmen and all the Members who have been monitoring it for several weeks and will continue to do so. The state of health emergency cannot be sustainable, but it is now a necessity. [[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds. – "No! » on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] Mr Ciotti, I am not offended by your remarks and am also pleased to see you again after these many weeks, but I cannot let you say that the Government has failed to give consideration to the two assemblies that make up our democracy. Few countries still operate in the way the French Parliament has been operating for several weeks. [[Same movements]] [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] The Prime Minister came last Monday to present the deconfinement strategy to the National Assembly, not to the Senate. We've been taking our responsibilities from the beginning. Yes, since the beginning, all ministers have responded to the commissions and have come to report on their actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u38	That's quite normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u39	Yes, normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u40	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Yes, that's quite normal, Congressman. It is not a grace that we grant, it is our responsibilities, and we assume them. You can recognize this: we are in our place by exercising our responsibilities, as you are on your side by exercising yours. The Government's respect and consideration has always been full and complete, and it is even more so today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u41	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u42	There is an immense paradox in what our colleague Stéphane Peu has just told us, which on the one hand describes the urgency and on the other refuses to manage it through the state of emergency. Because that's what we live in. Of course, our health care system has held. Of course, thanks to the mobilization of caregivers, thanks to the mobilization of the entire nation, the country is standing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u43	Not thanks to you, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But if we have managed to hold on until now, it is also thanks to what has been put in place; It is also because the Government has been able to act through the powers we have given it, under the control of Parliament. Saying the opposite is a total denial. What we're doing now is preparing for the next one. Our system held up, but 800 new people were hospitalized yesterday. The crisis is not behind us, it is still around us. It must now be coupled with prevention, not only of the health crisis, but also of the economic crisis that is threatening. We must now empower the Government to continue to lead the country in this crisis that has never been experienced. Indeed, this implies special powers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will address the issue of medical confidentiality later. But, Mr. Little, since you were talking about Germany: here, a few thousand people will be mobilized to follow up on the contamination chains; In Germany, we're planning 20,000! How do you imagine that the medical secret will be respected? We all face the same challenges, we all have responsibilities to take. An exception period is set to take place; We must assume this responsibility by giving the Government the means to manage it, and continue our control, as we have managed to do so so so far, with the imagination and the means at our disposal. We trust, and we want to give that confidence to the Government by voting on the bill. We will be debating, because there are things to be considered today, but we must also continue to manage the country in this exceptional and dramatic period, which we will overcome, because our nation is strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u45	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u46	I would like to say a few words to the Secretary of State. I will not blame him for being present: it is not he who is at issue on this point but, as often, the present take for the absent, and some shine more by their absence than by their presence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u48	Yes, we collectively regret the absence of the Minister of Interior and Seals. Despite what you are telling us, we feel that we are being offered the opportunity to meet when it seems to me that it is essential to bring Parliament together. The Republic does not waver, the Republic is standing, the constitutional powers must be able to function, in an appropriate manner, certainly, which justifies that we are only seventy-five in session this afternoon, but we must meet. It is the Republic, it is democracy, it is the rule of law. Don't miss it, the state of emergency does not disappear from a pen or from a presidential or ministerial signature – I don't know which one, and they may be complementary – one of the powers of the Republic. [[Smile]] To return to the motion of rejection, our colleagues are right on one point: we are about to debate – it is not certain that the motion will be voted on, the suspense is intense – and to decide on an exorbitant state of common law, without any balance sheet in hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u50	[[MM. Eric Diard and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] Whether you're from the majority or from the opposition, it doesn't change anything: there's no balance sheet. Thus, we are asked to extend the state of emergency, which is a state of emergency, with almost closed eyes, on the pretext that it would be necessary. Perhaps this is necessary, perhaps a sudden breakdown of the state of emergency would be dramatic and counterproductive. We still have to prove it. At the moment, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u51	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Dear colleague Stéphane Peu, I am always listening to your interventions with great interest and I am sensitive to some of the observations you have made. What are we discussing today, in reality? The need to organize our lives with the presence and circulation of the virus, in the perspective of a gradual return to normal. In such an unprecedented situation, it is very complicated to make good decisions and it is often necessary to choose, between bad decisions, which is the least bad. The aim of the extension of the state of emergency is to re-learn to live and our work, in this discussion, is to ensure that violations of freedoms are as minor as possible. For all these reasons, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u53	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u54	Our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left have shared questions that many of us are asking ourselves. It is not always easy to make the right decision when there are only bad proposals, in a context that has not been chosen. We need to take a position on several elements. Firstly, as Mr Gosselin pointed out, and as we have pointed out in committee, deprivation of liberty must be seen as a last resort and not as a measure of common law applicable to all sick persons. Fortunately, the text has been revised to provide better guarantees for the daily lives of the persons concerned. The question of an interim period of 48 hours was also raised, with the proposal of the Defender of Rights. The Prime Minister's power to regulate and prohibit the movement of persons will lead to mass controls. The situation is not anecdotal in the light of the Government's responses last Tuesday indicating that the labelling of masks is not yet widespread, and when the question of their cost is left aside while it is of deep concern to our fellow citizens. In addition, tracing patients will gradually lead to setting aside the medical secret. All these elements raise questions. Indeed, the conditions for the review of the bill extending the state of health emergency are not the best, and we hope that the debate will allow us to continue to improve the text. The state of emergency is not the only solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u55	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u56	Among the various criticisms made by our colleague Stéphane Peu on the bill before us and, more broadly, on government policy since the beginning of the crisis, I find two of them legitimate. The first relates to the martial tone chosen by the Head of State and translated by the phrase: "We are at war" several times during his intervention, which created an atmosphere that was not conducive to the confidence of the citizens in the majority and in the capacity of the executive to manage the evolution of the health crisis. That is one of the purposes of the debate we must have on the bill, and the reason why we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The second legitimate complaint concerns the role of Parliament and the rights of parliamentarians, although it can be understood that these rights have been adjusted in the current circumstances. President Chassaigne, although his point of order was not based on the correct paragraph, expressed a perfectly shared feeling by many of us about the conditions of our work: the absence of some ministers at the sitting can be agreed, but I am surprised that the Minister of Health, who was responsible for the text, was not present in committee yesterday. His hearing was postponed for the reasons we know, and I do not dispute them. But that there is no representative of the Government when we discuss measures in detail, and that amendments come at the last minute, is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u58	We make the choice to debate, because there are steps to be taken. We will therefore not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand, but we will understand some of the criticisms that have been made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u59	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u60	With Paul Molac, and on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I would like to say a number of things. First of all, every time Parliament is mistreated, it is democracy that is being mistreated. These words, each one could hold them, and they are not directed against you, Secretary of State: Laurence Vichnievsky explained earlier in covered words that, when one touches on individual freedoms, the absence of the guard of seals is a problem. We are at a crucial moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Richard Ferrand for at least giving us the honour of chairing, which may call for a certain parallelism of forms. At a time when Parliament must speak out on an exceptional situation, I remember the debate on the state of emergency that followed the attacks of 2015: the Prime Minister was there at the time, the Minister of the Interior as well. Such periods represent exceptional moments that do not suffer, for example, the opening of the work of the National Assembly on Friday, 8 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u61	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u62	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u63	I say it clearly here, and with force: what message do we make so pass to those who, a few years ago, were at war? Our war is different. [[Paul Molac applauds]] Secondly, after listening to our colleagues Stéphane Peu and André Chassaigne with great attention, I am not convinced that a motion of prior rejection will make it possible to move forward. We would prefer to see, just now, as we announced last night in committee by the voice of Paul Molac, whether or not you are ready to agree on two issues in particular. The first is Parliament's role in monitoring the state of emergency. I remember the statement of a minister of the economy who became President of the Republic who, at the time of the vote on the state of emergency in February 2016, had said very strong things that I would recall when the time came. The second is the responsibility of the elected representatives: we are among those who assume the responsibilities entrusted to us and the Libertés et territoires group does not want any amnesty whatsoever. We are here, on the front line, because local elected officials are on the front line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u64	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u65	It is not right, Mr Secretary of State, to once again bring this up to the point that the opposition, when opposed, would only do so in a controversial state of mind. It is not right, Mr Vuilletet, to suggest that, because the opposition opposes a bill extending the state of health emergency, it would not care about the state of health of the French. This is not a good way to approach the debates. Your tone is all the less appropriate since you have not been able to anticipate the epidemic or properly plan for deconfination. That's what's against us. Read the article published today in Le Monde on modeling by epidemiologists: they explain that the second wave could be terrible if we follow your recommendations. The same people, a few weeks ago, had already explained that it was necessary to wait until the beginning of June and that schools should not be reopened. Rather than ensuring maximum health security, you propose that we limit the rule of law and freedoms. The state of emergency has become such a second nature for you that you do not even realize that it is not normal in a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u66	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u67	While you should plan, protect and track, you propose to control, track and reduce freedoms. You appeal to the French to be responsible, but you take responsibility by getting rid of the local authorities. It is also important to note all the measures lacking in the text to deal with the social, economic and food crisis that is threatening: the text does not contain sufficient social measures. You have even refused us amendments to this effect by having them declared inadmissible. [[MM. Ugo Bernalicis and Stéphane Little applaud]] The group of La France insoumée will of course vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection defended by Stéphane Peu.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u68	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u69	Before explaining the vote of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which will of course be unsurprising on the motion of rejection put forward by our colleague Stéphane Peu, I would like to point out that the tone I will use during this debate will be the same as his. I say this with seriousness: while we are aware of what is at stake, while maintaining our sense of responsibility, we will not make any concessions in our criticisms, as the Republic and democracy demand. This is the attitude that is the strength of our country. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] Moreover, if, given my political sensitivity, my radicality, I have only fulfilled local mandates and have never been in control, I can assure you that, even if I sometimes get angry, every time we look at a text, I try to imagine what I would do if I was in control, where I would never be. We must understand it well, both of us: we strive to have a sense of responsibility. Stéphane Peu has developed two points that seem important to me. The first is that it would have been better to recognize malfeasance and dysfunction – who is not mistaken, who does not make an error in such a situation? –, rather than sticking to a kind of revealed truth, for this attitude creates a climate of distrust. Today, I assure you, the country does not trust. It is even overwhelmed by anxiety because of the current crisis management, made from going back and forth. [[Smile]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – MM. Ugo Bernalicis and Philippe Vigier also applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups – MM. Philippe Gosselin and Philippe Vigier also applaud]] The second has already been stressed by several speakers: let us remain very careful not to reduce our democracy. Mr President, the article and paragraph on which I based my point of order were the right ones! Article 86, paragraph 1, states that the Assembly must be "in a position to discuss drafts and proposals in accordance with the Constitution". It was enough to read the paragraph until the end, when you only read the beginning. I could also have relied on article 86, paragraph 2, on the time limit to be met. The concrete example I have taken is an additional reason to say that the implementation of the state of emergency is a blow to democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u70	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u71	[[The meeting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.40 p.m. under the chairmanship of Mr Sylvain Waserman]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u72	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u73	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u74	It concerns the proper holding of our debates. As was pointed out earlier, many of us regret the absence of ministers, whose presence would probably have been the best way to show respect for Parliament. But they're holding a press conference right now...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u75	They're taking care of the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u76	... in which they announce, even before we debate it, the elements that we are supposed to vote! So, as long as we can do, at least we could resume the debate only after hearing the ministers who have not yet spoken – Mrs Borne, Mr Castaner and Mrs Belloubet (Exclamations on several benches of the LR Group) –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u77	But they are more than 30 in the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u78	... because their comments are related to articles that we are going to discuss. It would have been better if the press conference had been held before the meeting; But, since this has not been the case, we could at least listen to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u79	Didn't you want time to debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u80	In the general debate, Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u81	[[Exclaims on FI benches and on some LR benches]] If I understand the comment just made by Mr Coquerel, I would like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, we risk debating the text until Sunday. It's not a problem, it's even an honor; But, for this reason, we should ban the Government from announcing anything by then, even though the French are waiting for clarification on the modalities of the deconfinement that will take place on 11 May? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u82	What is this contempt?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u83	I don't think there's any contempt in my words.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u84	Yes! Scorn and arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u85	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u86	Mr President, there is no arrogance in my way of thinking or in my way of expressing myself. Mr. Gosselin asked earlier if we were in time for the stocktaking. I'm afraid that's not the case yet,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u87	Yes! A step-by-step assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u88	...even if we would all like to be at the time of the stocktaking – in particular political – because our shared political responsibility is also to draw the political consequences of the decisions that have been taken. Today, at the time of the democratic rendezvous set in March, we must take some major decisions. The central question before us is whether or not the state of emergency should be extended. We all have an opinion on the deadline for this extension – one month, two months; The Senate has proposed a date that we believe is acceptable, so we have chosen to keep it. Is the text the salmigondis denounced earlier, with great talent, by Mr Chassaigne? No. The bill cannot be the declination plan that the Prime Minister introduced in the Assembly last week and in the Senate earlier this week. The main issue is whether or not the state of emergency should be extended. In addition, there are two essential measures: on the one hand, isolation or quarantine – perhaps it should be referred to as "four-day" – of infected persons; On the other hand, the introduction of a system to trace contamination chains. On this essential subject, I said yesterday in committee that we had no passion, no obsession, no form of sympathy for files or information systems, whatever the circumstances. That is why we too want to frame them and provide all the necessary guarantees. We will discuss this in a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u89	He has a little Bruno Le Maire style...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u90	I hear I have a Bruno Le Maire style: it's a little ridiculous... I believe, like the Senate, that we need this information system, but we need to define the guarantees that we will have around it. I will mention one last subject which is fundamental because it goes back to the territories, to our constituencies: it is the question of responsibility. Defining will be the responsibility of the Government, the Parliament, but also of school principals, local elected representatives and mayors: this is why the question of their responsibility in implementing the provisions of the deconfinement plan is obviously a matter for our constituencies. In fact, we are the first to be questioned on this issue, which is not anomalous and which the Senate has wished to refer to in the bill that we will be considering in the next few hours and days. We share that will. As we saw yesterday in the Law Committee, the ridge line is very difficult to find. Some argue for a total exemption from liability: this is neither possible nor acceptable. Others call on us not to change anything when, in some cases, the Fauchon law is a source of difficulty. We will debate it and try to answer it, with great goodwill. Ladies and gentlemen, we can very much debate these issues at a time when ministers are presenting some concrete steps taken to implement the deconfining plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u91	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u92	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is what we are going to do, bearing in mind one requirement: to fight the virus, we must use all the weapons of democracy and all the weapons of fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u93	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u94	We therefore find ourselves in this Chamber, a few weeks after having voted for a state of emergency, in accordance with a re-visit clause which we would like to find in other texts. Today, the crisis is still present. I am thinking of the sick and the families who are in pain, but I recall that they are surrounded by caregivers and many people who have gathered together, united, in a spirit of solidarity. However, we find ourselves in a state of emergency, in an exorbitant state of common law where entire sections of our positive law are excluded. This is true of labour law, the law of obligations, health law or criminal law. The list is obviously very long: the one I have drawn up is far from exhaustive! Many authorizations have been granted to the Government: ordinances have been issued, whose objects overlap with entire sections of our law. A large number of fundamental freedoms, constitutional, are being excluded at the moment: I am thinking of freedom of worship, freedom of movement or freedom of assembly: all these freedoms are far from being the least important. When the Prime Minister declares here that the state of emergency will be extended for two months, we wonder. When this bill introduces a new information system – in fact, it introduces even two – we question ourselves. Of course, we have escaped the worst, since a draft text provided for virtually a house arrest of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who would have been almost locked up in their homes. Fortunately, this project has been abandoned. Nevertheless, a number of challenges remain. The first of these difficulties is in Article 1 and relates to the duration of the extension of the state of health emergency. The Government wants to maintain the state of emergency until 24 July, two months after the current deadline. The Senate voted for the date of July 10. As for us, we want the state of emergency to be extended for a month, because it is the length of time provided for by the State of Emergency Act 1955, which serves as a reference – in any case, it is a precedent that we believe is important. It is also important to put Parliament back at the heart of the system, as we said earlier: an appointment clause at the end of a month would help to meet this imperative of monitoring the state of health emergency by Parliament, which is not the least of all. The choice of the date of 24 June would finally make it possible to vote on other provisions within the framework of the ordinary session, without waiting for the President of the Republic to convene the Parliament in extraordinary session. There is no reason to extend this state of emergency too far. Another important issue is accountability. On this subject, Mr Boudié recalled that there were differences of approach. The Senate has introduced provisions in the bill to set the conditions for the undertaking of this responsibility. This is by no means a disguised or generalized amnesty; It is simply a question of setting the framework for the commitment of responsibility during the Covid-19 crisis. These provisions clearly exclude intentional misconduct and any manifestly deliberate breach of an administrative police measure or of a particular duty of prudence or security. Therefore, there is no exclusion from gross negligence. In fact, ministers, prefects and directors of SRAs and central governments are excluded from the mechanism adopted by the Senate, which makes sense because they are the holders of the power to regulate, to design deconfinity. On the other hand, the exclusion from criminal responsibility of those who are supposed to enforce deconfinity seems to be the least of all things. The majority wants to incorporate the notion of the "state of scientific knowledge", which I think is rather vague. Are we sure that scientists agree on a particular drug product? We've seen teachers tear themselves apart in this matter! With regard to masks, the Scientific Council has adopted different approaches. In fact, the majority's proposal is mainly aimed at protecting the minister and mayor, the powerful and the small in the same way: it is a form of exemption from the responsibility of ministers, high authorities and officials who hold authority. That we do not want. Finally, article 6, on contact tracing, raises many questions. As I said earlier, two information systems will be put in place. In addition to the StopCovid application, which is expected to be launched on June 2, there will be another set, the data hub. Medical secrecy and professional secrecy will thus be greatly amputated. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that there is still a long way to go before we find ourselves, if necessary. It is not sure that this path is the way to Damascus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u95	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u96	The bill extending the state of health emergency comes before us after a first reading in the Senate and a passage into committee. This extension takes effect from the end of the confinement period, and the text sets out a legislative framework for the resumption of the activity. The objectives of our group are simple. I will therefore expose them with simple words: it is a question of allowing the French to gradually recover a normal life, despite the presence and circulation of the virus, while limiting and controlling the violations of public freedoms. As you know, our honourable senators have introduced several provisions on the criminal accountability of mayors and other public and private decision-makers in the implementation of policies to combat the Covid-19 epidemic. As far as we are concerned, yesterday in committee we adopted an alternative text, aware that we are of the legitimate concern of many elected representatives. The majority has therefore tabled an amendment that does not create specific legislation, specific to the health crisis that we are going through, as the Senate did, and which does not establish a principle of accountability for elected officials, but which is in line with the law of 10 July 2000, which created a balanced regime of responsibility for public and private decision-makers. We have simply added to the law the need to take account, in the event of a health disaster, of the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts. Of course, we want the case law to apply this principle in concrete terms: we will not require the mayors of the 35,000 communes of France to read The Lancet every week before exercising their municipal functions! I would like to highlight another contribution of the work in committee: the adoption of an amendment by Mrs Avia will put an end to the measures to extend the provisional detentions resulting from the order of 25 March 2020, which were probably in response to the temporary decline in the activity of the courts at the beginning of the health crisis, but which had raised legitimate questions with regard to individual freedoms among colleagues sitting on all the benches of our assembly, in the majority as well as in the opposition. We can welcome this excellent work of parliamentary scrutiny. We are pleased that this page is being toured today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u97	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u98	We can thank our fellow senators for strengthening the control of the judge of freedoms and detention over quarantine and isolation health measures. The Law Commission itself has further strengthened this control. As far as Article 2 is concerned, it seems to me that we have reached a text which guarantees in a balanced way individual freedoms and public health. Article 6 provides for the creation of an information system for the processing and sharing of personal data concerning the health of persons with the virus and persons who have been in contact with them. Let's be careful! This information system is designed to combat the epidemic effectively, but it challenges individual freedoms and medical secrecy. For what period should we allow its implementation and exploitation? Between the period of one year originally provided for in the bill and the strict duration of the state of emergency decided by the Senate, I believe that the majority groups in the National Assembly will find the right compromise, and I hope that it will be voted on by the whole House. There is still a difficult problem with the guarantees given both to those who carry the virus and to those who have been in contact with them, with regard to the control they can exercise over the treatment and sharing of their health information communicated, sometimes without their knowledge, to the information system that we are going to allow. Our group does not intend to require the prior collection of the consent of the persons concerned, as such a condition would render this project inapplicable or render it ineffective. On the other hand, it must be ensured that these persons, once informed, can act freely to oppose the processing and sharing of their personal data. [[Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chair of the Law Committee, and Ms Isabelle Florennes, as well as Mr Philippe Vigier applaud]] The problem is how far a society is able to challenge its values of freedom, respect for privacy and assertiveness of the individual vis-à-vis the State in order to limit the contagion of a disease that could cause tens of thousands of deaths. The answer is not obvious, but the freedom of citizens cannot be the adjustment variable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u99	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u100	First of all, I would like to thank you, Secretary of State, for your attention to children, especially those who suffer from confinement. We are all involved in the fight against the Covid-19: we are both ready to take the necessary emergency measures to preserve the health of our fellow citizens and vigilant with respect to the requirements of the rule of law that underpin our democracy. We had already done this balance work in 2015; We know it's not easy. I will begin with four general comments. First, this text has been amended by the Senate. We very much welcome the vast majority of the new provisions, which address our concerns. We are pleased to note that most of them were retained during the examination of the text by the Law Committee. This is probably due to the objective – understandable in the present circumstances – of giving a favourable outcome to the Joint Committee. Secondly, the text submitted to the debate does not deal with deconfination. The useful discussions we had yesterday in committee on the opening of shops, beaches, restaurants and theatres are not the subject of this bill; I would, however, like to point out, as others did yesterday, that the professionals concerned are very concerned and that we owe them the communication of a very forthcoming reopening date. Thirdly, by seeking to amend Article 4 of the Law of 23 March 2020 on the state of health emergency, the text places the discussion in too narrow a framework that does not allow to address social issues or to question the serious effects of the application of certain ordinances on our democracy and on its essential pillar, justice. The Socialist and Related Group has referred this question to the Minister of Justice by means of a letter to which it now awaits an answer. A step was taken yesterday in committee with the removal of the automatic nature of the extension of pre-trial detention periods. Fourthly, all measures taken are intended to derogate from the law normally applicable with the aim of curbing the pandemic. They are therefore by nature temporary. Yet they find their place in the new chapter of the Public Health Code on the state of health emergency, which will remain in force until 1 April 2021 – and probably beyond. This leads to some confusion: it is not always easy to know whether the provision we are looking at is of general value and could again apply if the state of emergency is re-established, or if it is intended to be applied only on an ad hoc basis. For our group, the measures we are discussing today relate exclusively to the situation created by the Covid-19. Finally, I come to the second part of my speech, on the substance of the text. Among the points of our attention are the criminal responsibility of public and private actors. We agree with the amendments introduced by the National Assembly to the extent that they retain the architecture of the provisions of the Penal Code. Contrary to what I heard this morning, they do not thus free ministers from the criminal risk. We fear, however, that these clarifications will serve the laudable purpose of my colleagues. We will propose to you an amendment of a different nature, not dealing with the criminal aspect, which was the subject of serious discussion in the Committee on Laws yesterday and which, in our view, would enable the mayors involved to take decisions in a pragmatic way in the context of a state of emergency and deconfinity. Of course, the subject of monitoring and evaluating the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency is also our concern. Progress has been made by the Senate, but why can't we manage to establish factual control such as the one that was introduced in 2015? If such monitoring existed, the extension of the state of emergency would not have been subject to legitimate criticism by the Government. The third point, which conditions the assessment of the situation by ourselves and by our fellow citizens, concerns the knowledge of the total number of deaths due to Covid-19. We are regularly provided with figures on this subject, but we do not know anything about deaths at home. Even if I measure the difficulty of such a census, its result is what will be remembered from the pandemic. The text does not mention masks and tests when we have been reminded again today on television how essential these tools are in the fight against the Covid-19. The ease of access to masks, the means to distribute them, their cost are issues that would definitely deserve to be addressed here. Finally, with regard to Article 6, the persons drawn must be able to agree to their presence in the file. We must also question the retention in the file of those are not tested positive at Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u101	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u102	"The rule of law is not the state of weakness. These words from Robert Badinter summarize the case of conscience that each of us is facing when we look at the bill to extend the state of health emergency. The public freedoms, the foundation of our democracy, the freedom to go and come, the freedom to assemble, the freedom to trade must be erased – and in this case, to what extent and to what extent – in the face of the health emergency? Almost two months ago, we voted for a first text, both urgently and urgently. We supported you. The exceptional legal framework had to be put in place to enable the executive to take the necessary measures to combat the spread of the virus and to guarantee the health security of our citizens. You are asking us today to legislate again to prolong and, in some cases, strengthen the state of emergency, even though the parliamentary debate has not yet regained its normal functioning and some of the measures taken and announced are misunderstood and misaccepted by our fellow citizens. The knowledge about the pandemic and the setback we have on the subject is more important today than yesterday, although no one can predict the future. Our fellow citizens have learned to live differently; They have shown the most serious civicism in the face of containment measures. But they see what is happening in other countries and measure our weaknesses. The success of the fight against the virus – as has been said by the Prime Minister here – depends on trust. Unfortunately, the Head of State and the Government had failed to create trust and national harmony. We regret it collectively; we have to deal with – or rather without. But it must be said and recalled: the prolongation of the state of emergency is only by far linked to the declared deconfinity. On the other hand, it has everything to do with the maintenance – or not – of exorbitant powers entrusted to the executive and with the confirmed divestiture of Parliament's powers with regard to public freedoms. It therefore has everything to do with the question of trust and balance: balance and proportionality of infringements of individual and collective freedoms with the objectives of combating the virus; effectiveness of the measures taken; uniformity and unilaterality; territorialization and co-construction. Many orders have been issued in the context of the state of emergency, such as labour law, detention and deprivation of liberty. To be acceptable, these attacks can only be temporary. That is the meaning of the opinion given by the Council of State on the bill. To extend too long and too mechanically, the risk is great that one day in the common law there will be permanent infringements of our freedoms. I am thinking, in particular, of respect for medical secrecy: it suffers from an unprecedented alteration in Article 6, which must not be the precedent of too much. Trust is also the best legal protection for mayors, employers and civil servants who, in the field, are responsible for the implementation of the measures decided by the State. A great fear has emerged about their possible criminal challenge. They are, in a way, the agents of the State in the fight against the epidemic and cannot be properly prosecuted for misconduct they allegedly committed without intent and for the sole purpose of carrying out measures of which they are not at the origin. However, there can be no question of giving our fellow citizens the feeling that a general amnesty could be decided. Whether these are failures in the decision-making chain or our ability to anticipate and take the right measures for the protection of healthcare workers, all responsibilities must be established politically and, if necessary, criminally. The issue of responsibility is ejaculating our discussions on the extension of the state of emergency. It is essential to clarify the situation and not allow the gap of mistrust to widen further among our fellow citizens. Finally, you ask us to extend the duration of exorbitant prerogatives. This is only possible if Parliament's rights are strengthened in monitoring the Government's actions. It is on this condition that our citizens will be able to accept the divestment of power that they have entrusted to their representatives. On this and other issues, we expect more attention and openness from the Government. Parliamentarians cannot be the spectators, the useless commentators of the trains of measures whose existence they would discover by looking at the continuous news channels like everyone else. The circumstances so special to the pandemic situation have led to a form of executive supremacy – and beyond technostructure – over elected political power: this is not in line with our institutions, our political tradition, or the necessity of the moment – on the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law is not a weakness; He's a force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u103	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u104	Six weeks ago, we allowed the Government to implement exceptional measures aimed at limiting the health crisis, assisting social and economic actors who were victims of the situation and managing the postponement of municipal elections. The period of debunking which begins on 11 May is not such as to remove the fears of the citizens, on the contrary. The first aim of this text is to extend the state of emergency until July. As long as it remains strictly supervised and controlled, extension is now a precautionary measure. The past two months have shown above all that public authorities are far from being sufficiently ready. We still face a shortage of masks, protective equipment, resuscitation capabilities and testing; Despite the attempts of Minister Veran to reassure us, we will not be able to test in the same way and as widely as in Germany. We are also very far from being able to answer the many questions posed by the defunction about school, the return to work, the hospitality-restoration sector, culture – and I am going on. The difficulties we face are indicative of the gravity of our institutional model, which is too centralized, vertical and unresponsible. In this regard, the speech made by the President of the Republic on 13 April is revealing: the President decided that the deconfination would take place on 11 May, without anyone really knowing what the decision was based on; Ministers were asked to plan it and the Scientific Council submitted, but it called for a return to school in September. The French method questions. The executive does not seek to co-build or unite the energies, but to enforce what has been decided in the ministries, according to a steering logic. Some will say that it is a guarantee of efficiency in a period of crisis. However, it is not the responsibility of headquarters to address specific issues quickly! On the other hand, it took only three days for the Government to divest the Parliament of a large number of its prerogatives. Even today, we are legislating at the pace of responsibility. In the face of a real lack of preparedness on the part of the State, businesses and local authorities often find themselves on the front lines to close the loopholes, so that the question of their criminal responsibility has legitimately emerged in the debate. Let us understand: you will never find in us the defenders of a widespread amnesty. But we need to be able to respond in a balanced manner to the concerns of those who, on the ground, organise deconfination, with all the risks involved. Thus, it is particularly worrying for a mayor to receive from the Ministry of National Education and Youth a sixty-three-page document setting out the measures to be taken in schools. After deciding to reopen these establishments against the advice of the Scientific Council, the Government therefore wants to make the mayors responsible for any violations of this protocol! How can we be sure that kindergarten children will not touch each other? That's impossible! Article 6 of the draft law, concerning the system of tracing infected persons and their contacts, is also a hard point. Of course, the examination of the text in the Senate and then in the committee made it possible to better regulate its provisions by limiting breaches of medical confidentiality. But we need to go further, because it is not possible for personal medical data to be included in a system without the consent of the individuals concerned. Similarly, the quarantine measures provided for by this law at the time of entry into the national territory must be monitored at best by the judge of liberty of detention. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, as is always the case in the Libertés et territoires Group, we approach the discussion of this text with the eye of defenders of the diversity of the territories. We need to be able to differentiate, including in the context of deconfining. I am delighted that the beaches and the coastline can be reopened throughout the country. As the president of the Brittany Regional Council said, the sea is part of people's daily lives, it is our garden. We regret, however, with Olivier Falorni, that this provision was not included in the bill last night, since all the groups agreed. Frankly, what is this Parliament for? In considering this text, it appears that particular attention should be paid to the situation in Corsica, in particular with regard to quarantine measures. Indeed, the need to contain the pandemic is combined with the need to save the tourist season, as the sector accounts for 30% of the island's GDP. Eight million tourists, 340,000 inhabitants of which 30% are over 60 years old for only fifty resuscitation beds: everyone imagines the situation. A plan of action built as closely as possible to the realities should therefore be implemented, of which the Corsican communities and the representative of the State should be the workers' anchors. True to its habit of being a force for proposals, the Libertés et territoires Group will propose that you enrich this text, so as to make it less difficult for our fellow citizens, while remaining vigilant with regard to respect for individual freedoms and that of health recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u105	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u106	This is extraordinary: in order to untie, your first reflex is to propose that we extend the state of emergency, instead of presenting to us what is being exposed to television as we debate here, that is to say, the concrete modalities of deconfinement! As I speak to you, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are answering questions from journalists! A number of ministers who might have been on the bench of the Government were also not there when they did not speak at the press conference. I am thinking in particular of Nicole Belloubet, since a number of provisions of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have been amended by this text. Such a functioning proves that you are not ready because if you were, all this would be validated in the framework of the parliamentary procedure under ordinary law and not a press conference as is the case in this case. Olivier Véran has just said that he understood the desire of all to resume a normal life but that it was necessary to continue to fight against a virus still present. Certainly, but where are all the concrete provisions that would allow people to take all the necessary precautions to avoid contaminate and contaminate others, as Olivier Véran has advocated? The possibility of making conscious and free choices, such as sending your kid to school or not, cannot depend on the resumption of economic activity. Similarly, the benefit of partial unemployment cannot be conditional on the fact that the school cannot accommodate the employee's child. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] There will be no moratorium on rents; No food aid is provided for the poorest. That's the reality! You do not care about the concrete lives of people, neither in the context of this text, nor in the context of your plan of definity, which can only cause us to fear a failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u107	There's no arrogance in your remarks, is there?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u108	In fact, your goal is primarily economic. When Minister Le Maire says that the economy must resume, this injunction is binding on all others. He will not be denied by Mr Castex, who intends to present his plan – stand up! – after May 11th: great! He said yesterday that there was a question of economic restart and that a high school student could keep himself when a schoolgirl could not. There! The objective is clearly set – the rest is dressing. Yeah, it's a random, improvised deconfinity. The Head of State has given up this May 11 date by dipping his "there's only one, we have to" and then manage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u109	What a contempt for all public officials who have been preparing for deconfinement for weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u110	That's what's happening! This is unacceptable! It is disrespectful of all those who are at work right now and who are holding the house, with little means and under degraded conditions, and we know that austerity policies are for something. No moratorium on rents; no price framework; no free masks except for the sick – still! – while one will be obliged to wear them in public transport, under penalty of a fine of 135 euros. In other countries, police officers do not impose a fine on those who do not wear masks: they give them one, which is not exactly the same thing. The ban on paying dividends this year? It's not planned. A public center for the medicine? Neither. A public transport hub? No more. On the other hand, we are being offered isolation measures that are little supervised by the judge of freedoms and detention, an extension of the power of verbalization to private guards: this is important, this is urgent! How urgent it is to set up an information system that breaks with the principle of medical secrecy or to discuss criminal responsibility! I don't think there should be an amnesty. The rule of law must be maintained in the area of criminal responsibility: everything else is chattering. If there are fears, it is precisely for all the reasons that I have just outlined, and in particular because Mr Castex's report on deconfinement will not be available until after 11 May, which prevents everyone from taking decisions and organizing themselves in full conscience. Such an organization is risky, as is that of our debates today and the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u111	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u112	The dawn of better days does not appear yet in our windows. Every night is marked by the counting of the victims of a virus that decimates our fellow citizens. So the question that arises, beyond that of deconfinity, is that of the prospect of getting out of a nightmare that is a trial for all humanity. The test we live in comes to question our deepest convictions, whether philosophical, political or spiritual. It shakes our relationship to life and makes us reconsider what constitutes the heart of our existence. None of us on these benches can deny the tragic nature of the pandemic that is spreading all over the planet. Nor can any of us deny the singularity of the health situation in our country and dismiss the responsibility of the representatives of the people we are under such circumstances. Our responsibility is heavy in the light of history and future generations, who will seek to understand how we have come to this end. The time will come to retrace the genesis of this crisis. To this end, our group will propose that a committee of inquiry should define the shortcomings in the fight against the spread of the Covid -19, not only to take stock of the lack of resources and to assess the consequences of choosing vertical, centralised and repressive management of the crisis, but also – I stress this point – to better prepare ourselves for new pandemics. However, we must exercise our task of monitoring government policy today, rejecting any political, binary approach, with humility but without compromise. That is why we believe it is essential to take stock of public action since the establishment of a state of emergency; to assess the mechanisms for restricting individual and collective freedoms and to ask ourselves about the extension of a logic of government by the exception. It will also allow us to understand the causes of the lack of trust that affects our country. Let's take the example of mask fiasco. The Prime Minister blamed scientists for the executive's turnarounds in wearing the mask when, at the same time, by a curious alchemy, the same executive ignored the advice of the Scientific Council with regard to the resumption of the school. Would it not have been wiser to recognize that the policy choices regarding wearing the mask had simply adapted to the quantity available? Would it not have been more respectful of our fellow citizens that the Government admits that it has sometimes concealed the truth, for example on 29 February, when the Director General of Health claimed that wearing the mask was not the right answer for the general public? We are convinced that these actions have contributed to exacerbating the mistrust of citizens in public speaking and to creating an anxious climate. With regard to the subsequent tests, the Prime Minister challenged the WHO to justify delays in ignition and government shifts, while in Germany the authorities were testing the population massively. Today, concealing this liability, you ask us to extend the state of health emergency. Once again, we will refuse to give our backing to an exceptional regime, which concentrates powers in the hands of the executive – we live here every day – which restricts fundamental freedoms and is about to allow massive control of the population. The United Republic does not decree itself, even if we wrap these words with lyricism: it wins, it weaves itself, by associating oppositions, Parliament, local elected representatives, the social body as a whole, and certainly not by reducing our assembly to the status of recording chamber. It is both a democratic requirement and a guarantee of the success of public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. –Ms Marietta Karamanli and Paul Molac also applaud]] I'm convinced that we could all have opened the way to better days together, and why not? the happy days, if you had had the will to subvert your old reflexes but for that, you would have had to get out of a form of conservatism that led you once again to numb democracy. Yeah, we could've all walked together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u115	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u116	Admit, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a certain strangeness to be discussed here about the extension of the state of health emergency, while at the same time our Prime Minister speaks in the media about the modalities of the deconfinition and even announces measures that we have not yet voted on, leaving us with the impression of being late and particularly useless. For the measures that we will adopt, tonight or tomorrow, to be accepted by the French, it is necessary, and this is the master word of this health crisis, of confidence! Unfortunately, this trust is not on the table. According to an Odoxa poll published a few hours ago, the French are almost 60% who do not trust the executive to succeed in deconfining. More interesting, we discover that they are quite prepared to have the deconfinition adapted to each case. The case by case is proximity, in a word the common sense of the French. That's what you're advocating when you talk about the couple that the mayor and the prefect make up. The mayor should first ask whether access to beaches, forests or the vicinity of a lake can be allowed again, whether the bar-restaurant of a commune in which no case of Covid-19 has been detected could not resume its activities as of May 11, or whether schools can reopen and under what conditions. That is what I am proposing in my amendments. Unfortunately, this emphasis on the mayor and local elected officials is only a façade. I have a number of examples in my constituency, the last of which is particularly shocking. In Béziers, the mayor proposed, in consultation with the academic director, representatives of school principals, teachers and representatives of parents of students – in addition to barrier gestures, hydro-alcoholic gel, masks for all staff, etc. – masks for children over the age of six in case the government doctrine changes again on this subject, and even flash thermometers to take the temperature of all. As parents and teachers continued to be concerned, the Mayor of Béziers offered all the staff of crèches and schools to be tested, so that those who are infected would know it and all the others could return to work without fear and risk, for them and for the children. This proposal was rejected by the SRA and the Prefect, arguing that the staff of crèches and schools would not be a "priority public". Frankly, we think we're dreaming! It is true that this was not in line with the famous official doctrine. The mayor of Paris Anne Hidalgo has planned the same tests for schools: will it be prevented? The mayor of Saint-Victoret in the Bouches-du-Rhône also: did he receive a ban on doing so? In the name of your famous doctrine, at the beginning of the confinement, you advised mayors not to have fabric masks made, claiming that they were useless and even, according to the prefect of l'Hérault, "dangerous": fortunately you were not listened to! You insist on finding pseudo-scientific excuses to hide your lacks, yesterday in masks, today in tests! Definitely, you don't trust anyone, except your scientific advice and practice. And you are surprised that there is no confidence in the provisions of section 6 of this bill, which sets up the well-known information system to combat the epidemic. But how not to worry about seeing our medical and personal data stored and shared; the medical secret disclosed to feed a database that could be hacked? To see that consent won't be the rule? Trust is, I repeat, the master word of a successful exit from crisis and definity. The Prime Minister continues to repeat this, at the moment still in conclusion of his press conference, even explaining in a circular to the prefects that "the particular situation leads to systematically seeking the agreement of the mayors" and to prefer dialogue each time to legal channels. Try to learn from your experiences. The crisis of the yellow vests had already highlighted the urgent need to bring you closer to our elected officials on the ground. Make sure that this trust that you demand is not reduced to words, speeches, rhetoric, doctrine, but rather is embodied in each of your decisions taken to the closest to the French. Without this confidence of our fellow citizens and local elected officials, we will not emerge from this crisis. Then show them you deserve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u117	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u118	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u119	This point of order is based on Rule 50. We have just concluded the general discussion in particular circumstances, after a break in the meeting that would allow us to listen, at least in part, to the Government's proposals on deconfining. At seventeen and thirty, we are about to deal with Article 1. Yesterday, the Law Commission spent more than ten hours reviewing the bill. Experience has shown, however, that we need more time in committee than in committee to study the texts. As a result, we will have to sit on May 8, a holiday commemorating those who gave their lives for our freedom during the Second World War. To examine a text whose urgency remains to be demonstrated, we should absolutely sit tomorrow, flouting the memory of those who fell for our freedom! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. François Pupponi also applauds]] The only emergency in this text is the deadline of 23 May, when the state of emergency would be extended. Where is the urgent urgency that forces us to flout the memory of our elders and soldiers who have fallen for France, French or from other homelands who have come to liberate us? We are discussing and planning to sit tomorrow, while we should honour the memory of our elders – this is the honour of the Republic. Let us review the organisation of our work and avoid sitting in the daytime tomorrow, in order to carry out a commemoration worthy of that name, not just a sherry deposit on the outskirts of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will echo your request, knowing that the sitting will be suspended tomorrow at 10 a.m. for the commemoration of 8 May and that no one in this House intends to flout the memory of the elders we will honour tomorrow. Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u121	This point of order concerning the organization of our debates is based on Rule 100. Several amendments were rejected last night in committee. Today, the Prime Minister and some members of the Government are making announcements about the reopening of the beaches, which I am delighted to hear: common sense has been the reason for a form of stubbornness! Nevertheless, we can question Parliament's respect. As the debate is in full swing in the Chamber, ministers are absent:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u122	You say that in the presence of Mrs. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u123	... rather than addressing the national representation, they are holding a press conference at this very moment and delivering contradictory announcements. This leaves us dubious as to the place given to us, and I do not hide my disappointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u124	The amendments to which you refer have been rejected in the strict application of Articles 40, 42 and 45 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u125	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u126	Inadmissibility was found to be extremely rigorous. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u127	This point of order is intended to ensure that the debate is properly held. While in session, ministers are making announcements and putting forward measures, some of which are included in the bill we are considering. Could we at least ask the Secretary of State here to give us a summary – if he knows them – to respond to the Members who have just spoken? That'd be the least I can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u128	Ministers may speak to the envir.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u129	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u130	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u131	As Mr Gosselin pointed out, and as we have explained in committee, the date set in this article for the end of the state of health emergency is not satisfactory. Nothing prevents us from seeing each other every thirty days to take stock of the situation – especially as it evolves very quickly, as we have just seen: while last night, we did not have the scientific knowledge necessary to justify allowing access to the beaches again, the Prime Minister has just announced that their reopening was now possible...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u132	It's bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u133	In the context of normal democratic functioning, we could therefore take stock every month. Last night, the committee discussed at length the criminal responsibility of elected officials in the context of a state of emergency, and reached a perfectly unsatisfactory drafting. I doubt that it is appropriate to introduce criminal liability measures in the bill, even though the Penal Code already contains such measures. Nor is it relevant that the text refers to scientific knowledge: is it the knowledge of the author of an act or of the scientists themselves, and which ones? We will propose another editorial that will send a strong message to mayors and business leaders, who are worried and do not know how to organize themselves. In a state of emergency, we could exonerate heads of companies and local elected officials from criminal responsibility; The Government, which had all the powers at that time, would then bear the responsibility for the provisions it issued.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u134	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I thought that Mr Gosselin's point of order was to welcome the arrival of Mrs La Garde des Seales, whom I thank for her presence among us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u136	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u137	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...but I was wrong! [[Same movements]] Do not overdo it, ladies and gentlemen, we have several days of debate before us! The Senate has discussed the responsibility of local elected officials at length. On the occasion of the numerous telephone exchanges I had with the eighty-seven mayors of my constituency during these weeks of confinement, I was able to measure their concern: it is not so much about the commitment of their responsibility as about the conditions for reopening schools. I had new exchanges with each of them; It shows that one third of schools will be open and will accommodate children, that one third of families will not send their children to school, and that one third of families remain in the unknown. So there is no univocal truth, and the exceptional context justifies that we move forward cautiously and quietly. I come back to the questions of responsibility. I was mayor for 15 years and was charged for five years for acts I had not committed. The case ended with a dismissal, at the time when a wave of harassment reports began. Since then, the law has evolved – and I thank the parliamentarians who, at the time, took care to clarify the relevant legislation. Had this new law been in force at the time I was charged with these acts, I would never have been charged. Today, above all, we need to carry a political message. It is necessary to complete article L. 121-3 of the Penal Code, as proposed by MODEM, and not to draft legislation of opportunity – the latter residing, for the Senate, in the elections that will renew its members in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u138	In a few weeks, really?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is necessary to legislate permanently, so that the criminal law covers all the tragedies that we can face tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u140	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 278 and 564. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 278.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u141	Mr Vuilletet does not mind, despite the urgency, we are against the state of emergency. We refuse to extend an exception law. We want social and health emergency measures, but we do not think it necessary to extend the state of emergency. While the state of emergency must be a parenthesis, you tend to prolong it or even transform it into a common law – I am thinking of the law, so-called SILT, strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. The parenthesis must remain one of these once the rule of law and public freedoms are achieved. What we need is free masks, no files that undermine the medical secret! A pack of 100 masks is sold between 30 and 50 euros: three or four surgical masks per day, standard for all those who have to take public transport to get to work, the budget of some households will be severely reduced. This is your responsibility, because in this respect you have allowed your conduct to be dictated by the law of the market rather than requisitioning masks. I prefer free masks to the extension of the ordinances you issued! The Council of State explained that the proportionality of the derogations introduced by these orders should be systematically reviewed and assessed on a case-by-case basis; This is not what you do by extending the state of emergency, including in its most vicious ordinances. We need masks, equipment and tests, we need certain essential measures to be taken, not a law of state of emergency adopted in haste, even though the effects of the previous one will only end on May 23rd!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u142	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 564.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u143	By its radical drafting, it aims to establish a debate in principle: the extension of an emergency law is not annoyed, even for health reasons, and cannot be done in catmini, the day before a national commemoration, at the same time as the Prime Minister and ministers detail, in a press conference, measures that have not been debated or voted on by our assembly. The essence of the emergency law is thus patent: it aims to divest Parliament of a power entrusted to it by the people, that of voting the law. We do not dispute all the measures contained in the text, but some question us and must be limited in their scope and duration. They relate to principles that are not annoyed and whose respect must not be lost or profited on the ground that the context would impose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u144	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u145	Unfavorable. As the Scientific Committee points out in its opinion, the situation remains very worrying, containment measures are effective in containing the dynamics of the epidemic, and the exit of containment must be gradual and controlled. The Scientific Committee unanimously considers that all the mechanisms for combating the Covid-19 epidemic, including those provided for in the law in the context of the state of health emergency, remain necessary in the current situation. On the other hand, Mr. Brindeau, the state of emergency is not arbitrary, but his regime is perfectly framed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u146	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u147	Unfavorable opinion. Probably on a voluntary basis, you combine the deconfining strategy with the state of health emergency that we propose to extend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u148	There's still a relationship between the two!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u149	Of course – I'll come back to it. You also regret that some social measures are not included in the text – and in this you deny the steps taken by the Government for several weeks to accompany our citizens and businesses during the crisis. Few countries in Europe and around the world have adopted so many measures to support employees – more than 12 million people in France –; few countries have set up a solidarity fund for businesses, have allocated financial assistance to modest families and to the most vulnerable young people, or have awarded a bonus to carers. Mr Coquerel, you asked me for an account of the announcements that the Prime Minister has just made: a bonus will be paid to the staff of the EHPAD – housing establishments for dependent elderly people – for the commitment that has been theirs in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u150	You're talking about a bonus when you have to talk about wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u151	I repeat: you are amalgamating the deconfining strategy with the prolongation of the state of health emergency. The strategy of deconfinement was presented to you by the Prime Minister last week. The text on which you are asked to speak today is in line with this strategy: it makes it possible by approving the necessary changes compared to the previous period. I am against the amendments to delete Article 1e r because the Covid-19 epidemic is not behind us. The daily number of hospitalizations, patients in resuscitation and deaths is a testament to this. The risk of worsening remains real. In addition, the rapporteur recalled that the Scientific Committee had unanimously expressed its support for the extension of the measures relating to the state of health emergency provided for by the Act of 23 March. The evolution of data over the past several days indicates a slowdown in the progression of the epidemic, but the circulation of the virus remains high and the risk of epidemic recovery in the event of sudden interruption of ongoing administrative measures is proven. Therefore, the extension of the legal framework which allows the Prime Minister, on the one hand, and the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Prefects, on the other hand, to adopt specific measures is necessary, even if they will have to put in place new arrangements. Regulatory and individual measures remain fully necessary to organise the arrangements for an organised exit from confinement, which we all hope will be consistent with the changing health situation. The extension of the state of emergency within a specified period of time is by no means a blank. We trust you to continue to exercise your control over the Government. This extension is intended to ensure a balanced balance between the protection of the health of our citizens and the safeguarding of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u152	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u153	Secretary of State, you tell us: "Everything is wonderful! We did everything we needed. Moreover, the whole world craves the measures taken by the French Government. You have the feeling that no other parliament is functioning in Europe and that no other country has taken economic action in the face of the epidemic. That's not exactly the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u154	That's not exactly what the Secretary of State said either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u155	You are proposing today to extend the state of health emergency. For our part, we believe that the economic measures you have taken, including the partial unemployment scheme, are not enough to stem development in our country from a social crisis that is also food. New measures need to be considered to address them. According to the prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis himself, 15,000 to 20,000 people are at risk of malnutrition in this department. Faced with this problem, part-time unemployment at 84 per cent of the net wage will not be enough. If we asked for exceptional and urgent measures to be taken, it was to deal with emergencies and exceptional situations of this kind. A few weeks ago, Air France's president and chief executive officer or SNCF's president and chief executive officer did not refer, as they do today, to possible job losses. We therefore put the cover back: we ask, among other things, that dismissals be prohibited throughout the period, as in Spain. It seemed to me, in listening to the Head of State, in his speech of March 12, that he had understood the demands of the nursing staff – I even thought he admitted that it was wrong that he had not heard them earlier. Clearly, this is not the case because the latter do not ask for deflated bonuses, but for wage increases, it is not the same thing. So we're a long way from the point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u156	We may still be told that there is no magic money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u157	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u158	It is not intended to delete the entire text of article 1, but only its paragraphs 1 to 3. When one restricts public freedoms, as in the case of a state of emergency health law, one must always have the hand that trembles. As I said when I introduced the motion to reject it beforehand, when the exception becomes the rule, the rule is no longer understood or audible. We must therefore be vigilant. Experience has shown that it is dangerous to extend states of emergency and states of emergency indefinitely, without a deadline, and that, sometimes – we experienced them in the Chamber a few months ago – emergency measures taken during a state of emergency could become the common law. The utmost caution is therefore required. That is why we are proposing the deletion of the first paragraph, the wording of which is not sufficient to reassure us, since it does not provide for any time limits, democratic safeguards or judicial control. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Marietta Karamanli also applauds]] As for paragraphs 2 and 3, they introduce the notion of extenuating circumstances for public officials in the fight against the Covid -19 epidemic, which we discussed last night in committee. While, by definition, a decision-maker makes decisions and a decision-maker who respects himself assumes his responsibilities, there is no need for any doubt to interfere in the minds of our fellow citizens, even at the turn of a comma: there is nothing to suggest that we would like the law to organize the impunity of decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u161	Unfavorable opinion. First of all, the state of health emergency is not, I repeat, a totally arbitrary state without supervision. Its extension is currently being examined by Parliament. Secondly, the strengthened control concerns the general measures provided for in Article L. 3131-15 of the Public Health Code. In addition, the Senate and the National Assembly carry out their assessment and monitoring tasks. Finally, the emergency regime provided for by the Act of 23 March 2020 to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic is provisional: in a year, no matter what happens, it will no longer exist. If the subject is still relevant, we will be able to treat it calmly. As you can see, Mr. Little: we are not at all in an arbitrary system, out of control and without temporal limits. Your amendment also calls into question the criminal irresponsibility of the decision-makers of sub-paragraphs 2 and 3. I understand your position. The wording chosen by the Senate is problematic and, in any event, we must address this issue in the bill. Indeed, as Bruno Questel pointed out, the mayors and the public and private decision-makers are waiting for us to accompany them in the implementation of the deconfinement. However, we must do so with caution. That is why the majority has proposed a new, more satisfactory wording that will allow the judge to take into account the current circumstances, that is, the ongoing health disaster, without, however, exempting decision-makers from their responsibilities and without mitigating them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u163	Unfavorable opinion for the reasons I have already outlined. Mr. Little, your amendment is opposed to the objectives pursued by the Government. On the question of criminal responsibility, I do not want to anticipate our debate or replace Mrs Custody of Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u164	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u165	I agree with Mr Stéphane Peu's amendment. The rapporteur tried to reassure us by pointing out that the state of emergency was framed. Happy again! If that were not the case, we would simply be in dictatorship! Unfortunately, the framework in question is extremely weak. This is evidenced by the difficulty we have in obtaining guarantees from the Council of State, which in many cases refuses to take a decision on the substance and which obliges parliamentarians of the majority to propose amendments on an unratified order – in particular on pre-trial detention – but we will come back to that later. Let us therefore ask ourselves about the limits of this state of health emergency! The first priority issues of constitutionality on new arrangements now in force, which will only expire after 11 May, will be considered only after the measures in question have been implemented. A rule of law is measured by the ability of its citizens to file appeals, protest and challenge. This capacity is now being undermined and diminished. This is the reality of your state of health emergency! The rule of law is not only for times when everything is going well, it is not only when it suits us; We must constantly defend and implement it. In times of health emergency, democracy and the rule of law are not enemies, but allies. The extension of the state of health emergency does not respond to an emergency. We had ample time to decide, since the state of emergency must end at the end of the month. Because the breakdown is scheduled for May 11, you wanted to do everything at the same time. So, Mr. Secretary of State, don't blame us for amalgamating the text with the deconfining plan. You're the one doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u166	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u167	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u168	Our colleague Ugo Bernalicis has just made a mistake on something that the Prime Minister himself made clear in his address to the National Assembly. It is also remarkable that we have had the first time. The draft law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions fulfils two legislative objectives: on the one hand, to lay down the conditions under which isolation and quarantine may be prescribed; and, on the other hand, to define the information systems implemented by the Government. I am personally pleased that we were able to discuss these issues in committee yesterday, which allowed us to add guarantees to those provided for in the original text and those subsequently adopted by the Senate. Perhaps our discussion in the open session will allow us to foresee new ones. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between the different subjects. The definition plan is part of the text we are looking at. The state of health emergency will go well beyond the de-consolidation plan as it will also include a recovery plan. As for the time limit for the extension of the state of emergency, the date of 23 July originally scheduled was reduced to 10 July. As I said yesterday in committee, where this issue has been the subject of groceries' accounts, the national union justifies that we agree with honourable senators on the date of July 10, a date that is appropriate for as many people as possible, even if there is no optimal date, which we all agreed to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u169	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 560, 466, 21, 55, 98, 108, 132, 163, 175, 248, 268, 420, 56, 164, 65, 125 and 530, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 21, 55, 98, 108, 132, 163, 175, 248, 268 and 420 are identical. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 560.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u170	It concerns the extension of the state of health emergency. Our colleague Sacha Houlié has just pointed out that there is no good date, but some are probably worse than others, starting with the date initially chosen by the Government, set two months after the end of the state of emergency declared by the law of 23 March 2020. The 2015 Security Emergency Act and subsequent legislation provided for a one-month extension. While this is not a case law, it allowed Parliament to monitor, on a regular basis, the measures taken by the executive branch within the framework of the exceptional powers entrusted to it. There is no reason not to do so in the case of a state of health emergency: without challenging the urgency of measures to combat a virus of which we do not know everything, public and individual freedoms cannot suffer a limitless restriction, in particular without temporal limits. A twenty-eight-day extension therefore seems to us to be balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u171	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 466.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u172	I propose that the state of emergency be extended until mid-June. You are asking us to entrust the Government with full powers once again, when the record of its action since we did so for the first time is execrable. The French don't trust us anymore, either. You're asking us for a blank check. We are learning this evening in Le Monde that last March the Government was letting strategic mask stocks burn; You will have to explain this to yourself, as you will have to do about your inability to provide tests to EHPAD despite your promises, or the total inconsistency of your policy: the Prime Minister – who is on television, not here – explains to us that the red zone, including Île-de-France, is in danger, which I gladly believe, at the very moment when he is reopening the schools there! You continue to demand national union, and who does not give in to this slogan is accused of endangering the lives of the French. I voted in favour of the first emergency bill, and I am prepared to give you a little extra time, in the name of the urgent measures that you say must be taken; But how long is this going to last? You'd like to train us until July 10th; The French would judge us severely if we approved this date. Throughout the state of emergency, you have refused to take stock of your actions, to answer our questions, and you have continued to procrastinate. The situation has become absolutely dramatic, because we will only be able to cope with the crisis if our fellow citizens have confidence. I don't trust you anymore. In this context, it is already a considerable gesture to grant you an extension, even for a shorter period than expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u173	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u174	The issue is not the choice of a date: it is a matter of principle. We have already experienced this situation about another type of state of emergency a few years ago. At that time, we adopted the principle of a one-month extension, as nothing prevented the Government from tabling a new bill to return to Parliament, take stock of the past period and allow parliamentarians to speak. July 10th, it's a long way. We propose to extend the state of emergency by one month from 23 May – on 23 May, it will have already lasted two months – after which the Government will still be able to bring before us a new prorogation bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u175	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u176	This amendment, of which Marc Le Fur had the initiative, tends to allow the extension of the state of emergency for only one month, until 23 June, after which a further extension will require a debate in Parliament in order to take stock. Indeed, if we understand the merits of the state of emergency, we do not want it to last for too long without strict control of national representation. The deadline we propose is both reasonable in terms of health security and our duty to protect our compatriots and respecting the rule of law and public and private freedoms. We do not wish to grant the Government any blanks beyond that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u177	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u178	While it may be difficult to agree on a date, here are some concrete and legal elements to explain that we would like to limit the extension to one month, instead of two from the expiration of the initial deadline, as the Government wishes, or from the date of the definition, as the Senate wishes. This time, we do not take it out of our hat: it is based on precedents, whether it is the 1955 emergency law or those, more recent, relating to terrorism. In addition, it guarantees a regular re-visitation clause before Parliament. It is a venerable institution – as President Chassaigne reminded us in his own words – where we want, beyond our differences, to play our role as representatives of the nation; And if the voice of the nation resonates at intervals too spaced to be heard, we will be of no use. In particular, this duration would ensure that a new debate was held before the end of the regular session, thus a semblance of normal functioning: let us not add the extraordinary summer session to the exorbitant nature of the common law provisions that we would have to consider. As far as we are concerned, a return to normal would be very good for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u179	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u180	The state of health emergency is a state of emergency in that it reduces freedoms and grants the executive an exorbitant power. However, we are asked to extend it when no official progress report is drawn up – and I do not confuse this state of emergency with confinement, contrary to what we have said. Zero milestones, therefore, but also zero confidence within the country, because of the almost daily multiplication, since the beginning of the epidemic, of fake news and the lies of the Government. Zero confidence in your decisions, whether they are political, while we will come back to tripatouillations – economic and social – what to say about the 5.5% VAT on the price of masks that we managed to get voted on three weeks ago, but that is still not effective due to the lack of an implementing decree, when we are supposed to be at war? – or health, against the background of polemics about chloroquine and the number of tests, still not indicated by the Minister of Health. Zero confidence, finally, regarding your practices: if you had listened to the opposition many months ago, we would probably not be there! Since Parliament has the capacity to sit, as President Ferrand reminded us at the opening of the sitting, we will always be able to return within a month to extend the state of emergency again. For the time being, this period, in line with the precedents for a state of emergency, seems to us to be quite sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u181	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u182	By proposing to extend the state of emergency until June 23, it is your own logic that we are trying to comply. There are at stake three political elements concerning the crisis, concomitant, but different: confinement, deconfination – what the French see – and the state of health emergency, legal support for these public policies. This text deals, you say, with this legal tool, not with the deconfinement itself – the proof is that you rejected yesterday all those of our amendments relating to the latter, whether it is the obligation to wear the mask or the opening of secure public spaces such as beaches or forests. This tool, which is to give the Government exorbitant powers of ordinary law, we wish to review it every month, regardless of the public policies that will be carried out. This is a good way for the National Assembly to monitor the Government's action. If this is possible with regard to the conventional, safe state of emergency, when the nation is threatened by terrorism, it must also be so when it is sanitary. It is a matter of coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u183	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u184	The state of emergency is neither normal nor desirable. The proof that it is not normal is the fact that Parliament, the heart of our democracy and the organisation of the Republic, does not function normally during this period. We can pretend the opposite, say that we continue to exercise our power of control, but this is a huge joke. Indeed, we all know that we are not carrying out our mission as effectively as usual. As a result, the Minister of Health announced a few minutes ago the deployment on Monday of a device that we have not yet adopted or even begun to review, as it appears in section 6. It's absolutely implausible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u185	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u186	The separation of powers, the natural arrangements for the organization of democracy and the Republic are anaesthetized. Nor is a state of emergency desirable. It has a historical difference with those implemented in 1955, 2015 or 2017: the French no longer have confidence in the executive. That too, we might not tell you, and everyone would hide behind his little finger; But, in reality, that's what we've come to, because of mistakes and sometimes lies. In order for the state of health emergency to continue and be effective, you must once again have some confidence, which will only be possible thanks to Parliament and the normal functioning of our institutions. It is therefore not necessary to set an overly distant date for the exit of the state of emergency: on the contrary, the period must correspond to the strict minimum required. That is why, after giving you extraordinary powers for two months, we wish only to renew them to you from month to month. There is nothing delusional about this, and it is not a discussion of grocers, but a republican, democratic, parliamentary and demanding debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u187	What we are asking for is very reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u188	I call Mr Tuffnell to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u189	Mrs Albane Gaillot is the first signatory to this amendment. We also propose that the state of emergency be extended for only one month, even if we have to discuss it again in the Chamber. Let us not forget that the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights is concerned about the risk of habituation of control measures. We must seek to reconcile the protection of health and privacy – two objectives of constitutional value. It is therefore essential to provide safeguards against the risk of the continuation of this emergency regime, as evidenced by the Act of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, which introduced into the common law various measures inspired by the Act of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u190	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u191	The state of emergency introduces an exorbitant situation under ordinary law. It was probably legitimate when our assembly, including me, voted on March 22 – the law being promulgated the next day – in view of the dramatic situation that was emerging. But is it still as legitimate today to renew it until 23 July as foreseen by the Government? In my conscience, I don't believe it. First of all, at least it would have been necessary for this House to continue to play its part since then, when the signs of the decline in Parliament's rights have unfortunately been numerous. However, it was possible to put in place, within a normal legislative framework and at least limited in time, provisions protecting our citizens from this still present threat. That is why I believe that the state of health emergency should only be extended until 23 June. In a recent and remarkable interview published in the newspaper Le Monde, the former president of Médecins sans frontières, Rony Brauman, states: "When one does not have confidence, authority is exercised by hardness. I note that this is what is happening today. Aurélien Pradié has just recalled with relevance that this government has lost the confidence of the French. Indeed, confidence in the answers it brings to the crisis has never been so weak, according to opinion polls. This loss of confidence is the result of the multiplication of errors, mistakes, renunciations and lack of anticipation... The World taught us today that masks were still burned in December when they were still usable according to experts! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, through this amendment, not to prolong this state of emergency until July.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u192	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 268.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u193	This long series of identical or similar amendments may seem like a tunnel in our debate, but these explanations are indispensable. Like my colleague Stéphane Peu, I think we need to legislate with caution. Portalis, one of the editors of the civil code, could have taken back what Montesquieu wrote: "We must only touch the laws with trembling hands. But Portalis probably understood it in the sense of "not too many laws." For my part, I believe that more legislation is needed here to provide a truly precise framework, with short deadlines, for the Government to come back to us with an assessment of exactly what the implementation of a state of emergency is. Because it has to be evaluated regularly, the hand trembling, otherwise it can always be a source of abuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u194	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 420.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u195	If it is proposed here to set 23 June as the end of the state of health emergency, it is not for squealing, but because this date is really justified. It is more relevant than the one of 10 July for three reasons. On the one hand, the aim is to reduce as much as possible a period of exceptional infringement of individual freedoms, on the other hand, to urge the Government to take all the necessary measures to contain the virus that have not yet been taken and, finally, not to further aggravate the economic consequences of the state of emergency. I think we are all well aware that this legal regime must remain an exceptional measure to be used in an extremely precise framework. In addition, the emergency law of 23 March 2020 passed to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic, which has validated a two-month health emergency that can be extended from month to month, it is therefore a matter of respecting these deadlines and the logic of the timetable. Setting 23 June as the term of this state of emergency is not only a logical but also a democratic choice because this date would make it possible to ask Parliament, and this time knowingly, to extend it or to close it permanently. Thus, it would be possible to postpone its expiry until 10 July if it proved necessary, but under the strict control of Parliament. This is also his mission, which we are fulfilling as Members of Parliament throughout this exceptional period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u196	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u197	This is a fallback amendment because we do not have great hopes for the adoption of our amendments limiting the extension of the state of emergency to 23 June. It is therefore proposed here, in a cooperative spirit, that certain provisions necessary for the strict application of health rules to protect our compatriots may be adopted in a proportionate manner after 23 June. We must try to move forward in a way that could bring us all together without Parliament being deprived for too long of its right to control the executive, even in the very particular period that we are living in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u198	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two points which you certainly do not ignore but which I believe are essential. During these debates much less in depth than they would normally be, since everyone sees that they are subject to a context that forces us to move quickly, there are great principles that are being undermined. The state of emergency is a period during which at least two essential parts of the right subject to parliamentary scrutiny are called into question, the first being the deprivation of liberty. Indeed, the obstacles to the fundamental freedoms of our citizens are absolutely considerable, and some of these measures are expected to continue. The heart of Parliament's mission is to ensure that all forms of deprivation of liberty are controlled, and that is what justifies our right to go to places of deprivation of liberty. The state of emergency weakens fundamental freedoms, which is why Parliament must be at the heart of the system more than ever. If there is a period during which the representatives of the people have a mission to carry out, it is when the executive, thus endowed with exorbitant powers, can quickly, sometimes brutally, deprive many of our fellow citizens of freedom. A second element is called into question, which we shall return to in the course of the debate: medical secrecy. I recalled yesterday, in committee, that for decades the legislator has debated, on many occasions, the possibility of weakening the scope of medical secrecy, but he never did. But that's what we're going to do in a few hours. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] That is why, during this state of emergency, which is also a state of democratic Sideration, we need more than ever to remain present and to intervene as soon as possible in order to ensure the strictest supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u200	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u201	To those who wonder why the Republicans want to reduce the duration of the extension of the state of emergency, I will reply with a comment and an international comparison. A report by the Scientific Council on whether or not to proceed to the second round of municipal elections in June should be submitted on 23 May. If it is decided to postpone the end of the state of emergency until July, that would mean, in the event that the Scientific Council concludes that it is possible to organise this second round, that you have accepted, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that free elections should be held under a state of emergency. That is exactly what you blame other countries, for example Poland – which has, moreover, been reversing, and it is happy, on the date of its presidential elections. A few days ago, I was attending a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs at which the criticisms of the members of the Group of the European People's Party were expressed. The Republic on the move with regard to the Polish situation was very clear and fair: our colleagues explained that it should not be possible to hold any elections in a state of emergency. Therefore, Madam Keeper of the Seals, my question is this: is it because the Government knows perfectly well that the second round of municipal elections will not take place in June that it will extend the state of emergency until July – if that is the case, you should inform the deputies present here – or does it bet that it will be able to hold free elections under such a regime?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u202	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u203	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u204	This amendment proposes the date of 30 June instead of 10 July because it has the merit of corresponding to the end of a semester. It is known that the year is structured around the summer break, correlated with the school rhythms but also with the rhythms of economic activity. But it is mainly on principle that my colleagues and I propose to go back to the dates proposed by the Government or by the committee. In this connection, I would like to quote the philosopher Pierre Manent, who recently expressed in an interview published in Le Figaro his fears of a state of emergency becoming permanent: "There is no dispute that the pandemic is an emergency and that with urgency certain unusual measures are necessary, but the fragility of human health is in a way a permanent emergency that can provide the State with a permanent justification for a permanent state of emergency. He added: "We see in the State only the protector of our rights. Since life is the first of our rights, a boulevard is open to the inquisition of the State. I think we need to meditate on his thoughts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u205	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 530.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u206	My amendment is quite similar to that of Xavier Breton, since I propose the date of 1 July. Since 30 June is the last day of the ordinary session, I believe it is important to provide for a re-visitation clause to discuss a possible extension of the state of health emergency. As an old Member of Parliament, I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am saddened to see that the work of Parliament has never been so depreciated! It is not your fault, but the plan of deconfinement should not have been announced first in the media but in Parliament... We had to do a sitting suspension to listen to the Prime Minister and several of the ministers! And no one among us can say that he fully knows what they are saying at a press conference – perhaps you, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, but we, the majority as opposed, are waiting to receive some parcels of their announcements... We'll always be able to find out at the next suspension. That's where we are. I'm sad. I regret that our work is depreciated and that the parliamentary function is devalued!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u207	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u208	We have triggered the state of health emergency by the law of 23 March and, today, we are asked to extend it, following the tabling of a new law a few days ago. Let us agree that while the initial duration of the state of emergency was one and a half months, the conditions for the review of the Prorogation Bill are not optimal. In this context, it seems to me that any provision aimed at further reducing this deadline would not improve the conditions for consideration of future texts. I'll be opposed to that as a reason. However, we must keep in mind the cumbersome nature of the procedure and the time it takes. Two dates have been proposed. The Government first suggested extending the state of emergency until 23 July. The Senate returned to that date and proposed to extend it until July 10. Everyone can have an opinion on the date to be chosen, whether it be the 10th, 11th, 12th or 23rd of July.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u209	It's not just a question of opinion: there are precedents!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u210	We could probably have agreed to a better date together, moved it to the Senate and started a great deal of discussion on the deadline, but we preferred, rather than disagreeing with the Government, to favour Parliament and retain the Senate amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u211	And keep a chance to make the CMP come to fruition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u212	Perhaps – or perhaps not, Madam Member: I do not know what her conclusions will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u213	That's the point: you have to put every chance on our side!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u214	Mrs Le Grip, you have asked us about the measures that the Prime Minister could take in the context of the health emergency. I wanted to reassure you on this point: under the amendments to article L. 3131-15 of the Public Health Code, these measures will remain strictly proportionate. You also referred to the date from which it would be possible to create a mixed system, between the state of emergency and the common system. On this point, I express an unfavorable opinion. Mr Pradie, you believe that parliamentary scrutiny is basically a joke. However, a very serious evaluation work is being carried out by both chambers at the present time. Its results can be consulted on the websites of the National Assembly and the Senate. So I'm afraid you're doing a great deal of pain to Mr.Bas, whom I know he doesn't want to have a lot of punishment in the current period – I'm making this point in the presence of Mrs.Setting the Seals, because I've been able to follow part of the debate in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u215	We don't care about Mr. Bas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u216	I don't care about the chair of the Senate Law Commission. I leave you responsible for your remarks, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u217	He'll get over it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u218	He's a big boy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u219	And you're a rapporteur for the National Assembly, for the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u220	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us regain our calm! The rapporteur, on her own, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u221	Finally, Mr. Dumont, you were concerned about whether, in the event of an improvement in the health situation, we would continue to live under a state of emergency. I would like to inform you that this regime can be terminated in advance: it is sufficient for a decree in Council of Ministers to be adopted after the advice of the Scientific Committee. I do not agree with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u223	Everyone has an opinion on the duration of the state of health emergency, as on many issues that have arisen since the beginning of the crisis. However, I believe we agree that this state of emergency cannot be maintained ad vitam æternam. Everyone also understands that it must be extended to combat the epidemic. As the rapporteur recalled, the Scientific Council considered it necessary to extend the state of health emergency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u224	It is not an authority under divine law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u225	...because we didn't win the battle against the virus. You understand the validity of this decision, Ms. Le Grip. So let us also understand that it cannot be applied for too short a period and that we must have sufficient time to design the appropriate measures for a large-scale epidemic. We must be given sufficient time to prepare for the deconfinition of our citizens and to make it effective and effective. [[Mr. Aurélien Pradie exclaimed]] In France, we have made the choice – of which we are proud, even if we do not claim to be an example to the world, Mr Coquerel – to come regularly to Parliament to explain our actions and to present the current situation and the next steps. It was in front of the National Assembly, Mr Diard, that the Prime Minister presented last Tuesday his strategy of deconfination. It is not a joke, Mr Pradié: Parliament's control is exercised regularly. This is not once again a favour granted by the Government, but simply respect for the democratic demand and the rights of Parliament. Control is regular, but the balance sheet – benchmarking, to use your words, Mr. Little –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u226	Speak French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u227	...will be set up at the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u228	It's not called benchmarking, it's justice! It's very different, you'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u229	The Prime Minister has made it clear that we will explain all the measures we have taken since the beginning of the crisis, and that we are taking on them. With all the humility to which President Chassaigne calls us, I admit to being embarrassed enough for you, Mr. Gosselin, because I would not want you to be at the origin of a rumor – a fake news, it would seem today. I hear your colleagues repeat the precedent you mentioned, namely the limitation of the state of emergency to one month under the Act of 3 April 1955. We will check this together, but the only time limit set out in the 1955 Act is the twelve days that can take place between the proclamation of a state of emergency and the submission of the prorogation bill to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u230	You're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u231	Since 1955, there has never been a one-month state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u232	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u233	[[Applause on a few benches]] The shortest time – in November 2015 – was two months. I therefore propose that we check together the precedent to which you refer and which some of your colleagues have referred in turn, because I would not like it to put you in a bad position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u234	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u235	The Law Committee has indeed chosen a different date than the one chosen by the Government – the rapporteur stressed it, and we will be able to discuss it when considering future amendments. We proposed to extend the state of emergency by two months from the expiry date provided for in the law. The Senate, through the chair of its Law Commission, has proposed that this two-month period run from the date of the deconfination, that is, on May 11th. It would therefore expire on 10 July. The Government considers this solution to be balanced and wishes to stick to it – which is why we express an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u236	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u237	One question comes up in all the speeches made by our colleagues, and in particular by Mr Dumont. Perhaps, Madam Keeper of the Seals, you can answer us on this point. The Prime Minister must submit a report to Parliament by 23 May on whether or not we will be able to organize the second round of municipal elections. I ask a simple question: is the state of emergency compatible with the organisation of the second round of municipal elections? National representation should be clarified on this point, since a negative response would render this report null and void, which would be based on the advice of the Scientific Council. If we took the decision tonight to extend the state of emergency until mid-July, we would thus postpone the vote until September or October. More than 5000 municipalities are waiting for an answer. Many mayors, including the Mayor of Paris, spoke about this a few days ago. Madam Keeper of the Seals, if the travel limit of 100 kilometres applies, could an elector on the list of electors in his or her municipality of secondary residence be legally prevented from voting? Will the basic rules of electoral law be satisfied if this is the situation? Thank you for giving us further details at this stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u238	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u239	I will respond to the rapporteur's comments. I appreciate that she defends the Senate and that she considers herself the guardian of the temple of the Palais du Luxembourg,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u240	Not at all; I talked about both rooms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u241	...but let me remind you that we are here in the National Assembly. Philippe Bas – whom I know well, because we have been elected in the same department – will not take shade of it. The Senate has its raison d'être. I am not one of those who see it as an anomaly among democracies – I leave it to others. I am in favour of a well-understood bicameralism and believe that parliamentary shuttles are of real interest because they enrich the debates. But to enrich the debates, there must be a debate and different points of view must be expressed! The Government seems to agree with President Bas on 10 July. All right. However, we can, quite legitimately, adopt another approach. I maintain that a monthly extension, which would make it possible to respect Parliament – in any case the National Assembly – and therefore national representation, would not be an anomaly. Of course, the review of the texts is cumbersome and requires work. I agree that we must bring together parliamentarians, prepare texts and discuss them. It takes time. But it is our primary function to debate! As the Prime Minister said on April 28, we are not here to talk or comment, but to vote. We take our duties very much to heart. In addition to passing the law, we have two tasks under article 24 of the Constitution: monitoring the Government's action and evaluating public policies. This does not seem to me anything, especially in a time when the law is being abused by the state of emergency, which is a state of emergency. The keeper of the temple, the guardian of individual and public freedoms, is the National Assembly, it is Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u242	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u243	I am very surprised at the responses to requests for shorter extension periods. If we agreed at the end of March to vote for a state of emergency, it was because the seriousness of the health crisis required you to take concrete measures and because the time frame for the adoption of laws was too long to allow you to do so. It is now 7 May. The state of emergency was originally scheduled to end on 23 May. That you ask for another 15 days to take action to deal with the health crisis, I understand that very well. However, as long as you have the necessary time to put the legislative function back into service, an eternally prolonged state of emergency is in no way justified. I therefore do not understand the comparison you make between the current situation and the very serious emergency that prevailed when the epidemic struck the country. You also seem, Mr. Secretary of State, to consider us an advisory chamber: you give us the grace to explain your actions, and we can ask you questions. But not only do you not provide answers, but the role of the National Assembly is not limited to this function: it is to vote. You cannot act if we do not vote, because we represent the people and the Nation, when you are a mere member of the Government. I am sorry to tell you, but this prolonged closure of Parliament is contrary to all our republican principles. These principles, curiously, you spend your life talking about them, but you are very fast and effective when it comes to removing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u244	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u245	Madam rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, among the arguments that you have used to contest the idea that we should shorten the period of extension of the state of emergency proposed to us, you have mentioned the unanimous opinion of the Scientific Council, which considered it necessary to extend the state of emergency, which no one is contesting. It would therefore be appropriate, in a way, to give precedence to the scientific injunction to define a period of extension sufficiently long for emergency measures to be effective. I recall, however, that when the President of the Republic decided to set 11 May as the date for the beginning of the deconfination, he did not do so in accordance with the opinion of the Scientific Council, which, moreover, took great care to recall that, if deconfination was possible at that date, it was nevertheless a decision of the Head of State. It was therefore a highly political decision. We are faced with the same considerations: it is up to the policies to decide whether the extension of custodial measures and the restriction of Parliament's rights are compatible with the state of health. The question is not only scientific, but eminently political. It can therefore be said that a delay that is still shorter than that decided by our colleagues in the Senate – and thus far shorter than that proposed by the Government – is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u246	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u247	In such circumstances, we are told that a state of emergency will be established on a basis similar to the one that existed in 1955, where it was planned to be renewed every month. It was then suggested that, once the provisions of the state of emergency on terrorism had been amended, it could now be based on a two-month period, however, that we should not worry about it and that it would be revisited every month. Finally, we are told that it is in the law of prorogation that we will indicate for how long we want to introduce it – we no longer talk about a month or two. In fact, we are not given any duration, but we propose to extend it until 23 July. Why, by the way, 23 rather than 10? This gives rise to a lunar discussion, where you tell us that July 10 is a less bad date than the 23rd, because it is a little less in the middle of the summer and so it would be less bothersome to meet that day if we had to renew the state of emergency. In fact, the Scientific Council does not say that it wants to extend the state of emergency: what it wants to see extended are measures that promote barrier actions and prevent contamination. I would also like to appeal to all of you: between 16 and 23 March, the confinement and the whole of the system requiring, in particular, the certificates were applied without resorting to the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u248	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u249	Many of the measures that we are referring to here, which you think are important in particular for the protection of businesses, have not been introduced on this basis, but on the basis of the ordinances provided for in the same text as we voted on 23 March on the state of health emergency. You can certainly please yourself by saying that it is imperative to prolong the latter, but that is neither right nor true. It is wise to set dates. A monthly renewal would allow us to come together and take stock, which is not possible as it is, even though it seems to me to be the wisest in this matter. That is why I agree, at the very least, with these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u250	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u251	It should have been part of the joint debate because it also dealt with the duration of the extension of the state of emergency. I would have liked that time limit to be limited to one month, for two reasons. The first is that we are going through a period during which the expression of the French has been rather blurred because of the difficulties that Parliament has encountered in working and meeting. We must also learn many lessons for the future, because a great democracy like ours cannot be satisfied with such a limitation, even in exceptional circumstances. We must find ways to make democracy live in times of crisis, whether it be the one we live in or the ones we can fear in the future. The second reason is that one of the constants of this crisis is the rapid evolution of the information available, so fast that, almost every day, the Government must make corrections to the system. During the period of confinement, the French were riveted on their television to find out what, today, was different from yesterday. We find it difficult to explain to them now that we are going to spend another two months without a democratic debate on the emergency situation in which they are placed, especially as we approach a period of seasonal activity over the summer. It is particularly unfortunate that this element has not been taken into account. The most problematic was not so much the date of 10 July, on which a compromise seemed to be found, as the date of 23 July originally envisaged by the Government, which referred very far to the re-visit clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u252	I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 22, 102, 121, 264, 285, 559 and 565. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u253	This amendment is underpinned by the perfectly legitimate question of the responsibility of mayors, who must put in place, for the reopening of schools, a very strict health protocol – and that is so much better – decided at the top and applied at the bottom. The question therefore arises in practice. We've talked a lot lately about the Fauchon law. It responded, when voted in the 2000s, to the well-known phenomenon of the judicialization of public life, which did not save communities. Since then, however, many associations of elected representatives, regardless of their size, have found that this law suffers from a major defect: the serious fault referred to in article 121-3, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code is often defined a posteriori, whereas we all agree that the predictability of the fault must be questioned. Two responses were provided on this point. The first is the Senate's amendment. The latter does not propose an amnesty, as there is no obstacle to a person who considers himself or herself to be a victim being able to bring those whom he or she considers to be responsible to the courts. The other answer is that which was given this night in committee by the majority groups. However, it suffers from a defect: the notion of the state of scientific knowledge is already, in a way, reflected in article 121-3, paragraph 3, of the Criminal Code, when it refers to the "competences" and "means" available to the perpetrator. In this respect, however, recent events show us that we must be very careful, because the state of scientific knowledge refers, in fact, to the scientific debate. There are different or diverging views between the Academy of Sciences, the Scientific Council and other authorities which, as is quite predictable, debate these issues. The amendment adopted yesterday in the Committee on Laws does not therefore in any way address the concerns of the elected representatives. That is why, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we ask you to give another answer, which is at the same level as the issue at stake, particularly with regard to the serious fault. We ask you either to maintain the existing law or to clarify how the plans drawn up by the municipalities for the resumption of activities can be validated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u254	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u255	The drafting introduced yesterday by the majority organizes a form of irresponsibility of public decision-makers faced with the management of a health crisis and, which is just as disturbing, it does so by referring to the state of scientific knowledge. We understand that, for the past two months, this government has been primarily responsible for its inaction, generated by the tetanus it feels at the thought of having to account for its actions, and frozen in the fear of legal proceedings brought by citizens who would have understood that it has acted wrongly and failed to protect them. An article published today in Le Monde and already mentioned here explains how this government has condoned the destruction of hundreds of millions of masks since the beginning of the quinquennium. He'll have to answer for it. The members of the Government should be responsible for that. On the pretext of the advice given by some health director or senior official fully protected by the technocratic system, it is not necessary to exonerate from his responsibility the policy that has made the choice to destroy strategic stocks that have been constituted for decades. That is what you are doing with this amendment. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] We are opposed to it, while wishing to protect the links in the chain implementing the decisions you are making – we will present an amendment to that effect earlier. Ministers and heads of headquarters who are now bragging on television without ever taking on their responsibilities must be held accountable to the citizens. That is why we want paragraphs 2 and 3 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u256	Amendment No 121 by Mrs Marine Le Pen is being defended. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u257	The moment is important. Ladies and gentlemen, France is watching us and I fear that in a few weeks, a few months or a few years, it remains of this debate, which is largely obscured by the Prime Minister's press conference, that the idea that elected officials and members of the Government wanted to be self-amnesty. I know that this is not necessarily the dominant intention, but I warn you about the risk of sending such a message to a public opinion that has virtually lost all confidence in those who lead it. In proposing to include in Article 121-3 of the Criminal Code a reference to "the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts", the majority wanted to go beyond the provisions of the Fauchon law, which I think are sufficient to protect those who, in good faith, act on a daily basis – I am thinking of our mayors and all those who are mobilized against the virus. This mention is at best unnecessary, since the judge will assess the circumstances in which the damage was caused; At worst, it accredits the idea of self-amnesty or even conceals certain intentions. Everyone has to shoulder his or her responsibilities. There have been mistakes, which are increasingly reported in the press. The newspaper Le Monde now makes an extraordinarily severe diagnosis of the management of precaution stocks with regard to masks: 1.7 billion units when Nicolas Sarkozy left the Elysée Palace, they melted to 700 million units in 2017, then to 100 million at the beginning of this year. There will have to be reports and explanations given to the French, because the absence of masks has fueled a strategy of gruelling and inefficient struggle. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that you delete the two paragraphs added yesterday in committee so that we do not repeat here the'responsible, but not guilty'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u258	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u259	Its purpose is to defend the Fauchon law and nothing else, for it has proved its worth and has given rise to constant jurisprudence that protects local elected officials. The Senate adopted an amendment to strengthen its provisions and adapt them to the circumstances of the pandemic. You have deleted it to replace it with the reference to "the state of scientific knowledge". But as some members of the majority have even recognized, such an expression does not mean anything! We are constantly seeing scientists tear themselves apart on television, especially with regard to medicines. I don't accuse you of wanting amnesty, but by sowing confusion, that's the image you end up giving. The Fauchon Act makes it clear that local elected officials are not responsible when they have not intended to commit a fault. It protects local elected officials. I repeat: the whole Fauchon law, just the Fauchon law! That is why I propose the deletion of paragraphs 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u260	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 559.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u261	Lies on the wearing of masks, inability to revive the national production of masks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u262	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u263	...refusal to test EHPAD staff and boarders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u264	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u265	...blocking of the chloroquine treatment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u266	Wrong, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u267	... inability to accept patients in resuscitation beyond a certain age,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u268	It's not true again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u269	... refusal to relocate the production of medicines: your assessment is overwhelming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u270	It's all wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u271	What shameful words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u272	You bear an immense responsibility for the number of victims in our country. And now you are trying, through a dubious maneuver, to organize the amnesty of those responsible for this calamity! Tonight, in front of French people who don't trust you anymore, you want to self-amnesty. Is that what you propose to us, is that what you propose to the nation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u273	What a paranoid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u274	Either the Prime Minister was sincere when he said yesterday in the Senate that he did not want this amnesty, and then your majority will follow his advice. Either your government plays a double game and organises an amnesty through some members of the majority, and then the Prime Minister's speech is no longer of any value. You have a huge responsibility tonight. I hope that we will delete these paragraphs and stay with the Fauchon law because what is happening in the Chamber today is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u275	What a movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u276	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 565.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u277	I am very pleased that the guarding of seals is present in the Chamber as we deal with this important issue. A confusion was created when our fellow senators tried to address the concerns of some of our fellow citizens – mayors, but also employers or public servants – who were responsible for implementing the decisions taken to combat the pandemic. As I said in the general discussion, the confidence of our fellow citizens in the state's ability to carry out this struggle would have been the best legal guarantee for them. Unfortunately, there is no such trust. The suspicion in our fellow citizens that certain decisions – or lack of decision – have given rise to concerns about mayors, employers and other agents, whether public or not, who work on behalf of and on behalf of the State. The amendment adopted by the Senate was not satisfactory in that its general scope already suggested that attempts were being made, in a way, to exonerate all those responsible for implementing decisions from their responsibility. This was obviously not the intention of our fellow senators, nor was it the intention of the members of the majority who proposed the amendment voted in committee last night: if they wished to go back to the general scope of the measure, they wished on the contrary to remove the suspicion that a form of amnesty was about to be decided, more so by elected officials of the Republic, with the support of the Government. It is clear from this analysis that it is best to return to the current state of law that protects mayors and business leaders alike.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u278	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u279	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I ask you to clarify this point and to assure us that nothing is being done today and that nothing will be done tomorrow in favour of an amnesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u280	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u281	This issue gave rise to lengthy and lively debates in committee yesterday. Personally, I'm very comfortable with the Fauchon law. The drafting that we drafted yesterday in committee had only one objective: to invite the judge to assess the exceptional conditions under which decision-making has taken place since the beginning of the epidemic in order to determine the responsibility of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u282	That's what he does already every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u283	That is true, but in the particular context we know, and in order to take account of what some of our colleagues are pushing up the ground, we felt it was necessary to clarify this point. This was in no way a manipulation intended to obtain amnesty or immunity from I do not know who.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u284	Maybe that wasn't your intention, but that's the result.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u285	No, our intention was the opposite of that, and the result is also. On the other hand, the amendments adopted in the Senate are problematic because they are aimed precisely at creating a category of persons exposed to different criminal responsibility. In addition, they lead to different application of the law depending on whether a decision to combat Covid-19 was taken before or during the state of health emergency. It is this distinction according to the function or period that we refuse. The opinion is therefore unfavourable for all these amendments, precisely for the reasons described by the authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u286	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u287	He's unfavorable. As the rapporteur said, the Fauchon Act and the interpretation given by the case law seem to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u288	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u289	In other words, the commitment to the responsibility of decision-makers can only be made under strictly and rigorously defined conditions that you know. In the case of unintentional misconduct, it must be deliberate if standards exist, or characterized in the absence of standards. Moreover – and this is what could justify the proposed wording – the judge always appreciates the situation in concreteo, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of certain elements: powers, own competences, the situation. This general framework seems to me to be balanced, as some of you have said. So we could have left it there. However, in this very particular situation of a health crisis, which could happen again, one can also take into account the expressed need to be reassured and thus, without changing the general framework, add the phrase "in the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts". The judge will not appreciate it in absolute terms but in concrete terms: he will wonder what was, at the time of the facts, the state of the knowledge of the person who is facing him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u290	You have to make it clear, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u291	It seems to me that this is the proposal of the Members and that, in the event of a health crisis, it can reassure all decision-makers without changing the rule of law or the way in which situations are assessed. [[Mr Eric Ciotti exclaimed]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to respond to some of you, including Mr. Dupont-Aignan and Mr. Ciotti, who speak of a danger of "auto-amnesty" and "a questionable manoeuvre". We must be extremely clear: in no way do we want a law of self-amnesty for anyone. This has nothing to do with it! An amnesty law is a law of oblivion. However, when I read the text drafted by the Members, I see nothing in it, absolutely nothing, which translates the notion of oblivion. On the other hand, this text applies to everyone. It is therefore absurd to say, as some people do, that ministers would like to self-amnese themselves. That doesn't make any sense. I want to do politics, but there are limits. We have to read the text, he doesn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u292	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u293	I do not understand, Madam Minister – or I understand it too well – why you are not in favour of these deletion amendments, by which we are asking to remain with the current provisions of the Fauchon Act. You say that the general framework is satisfactory, that there is no need to change it. But a few minutes later, you explain to us that, finally, if it is necessary, because some people are worried – we understand them, in view of the risky management of the Government – to be criminalized for decisions they would not have wanted to make if they had not found themselves in the situation in which you put them. You say that you will reassure them by amending the law while saying that you must not worry because it will have no effect. But the best way not to change a law is still to avoid any change and to stay in the original state! As drafted, the text provides that the judge must assess the health circumstances, which is redundant with the judge's office. You said it yourself: applying the law by appreciating the situation he is facing is his job! Otherwise, we would not need a judge: we would apply the law, foolishly and simply, using an algorithm – it's tempting, I know, but it's not yet the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u294	Don't give them such ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u295	I therefore do not understand your position, Madam Minister. I have tabled a few amendments aimed at defusing the wording proposed by the majority, and therefore returning to the Fauchon law and nothing but it. However, they will please you as they will help you to reassure those you have made concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u296	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u297	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Where does this debate on criminal responsibility come from? It has its origin in the anxiety climate created by a part of the opposition about the responsibility of public or private decision-makers. Some of the senators had indicated their willingness to establish a mechanism in which the responsibility of mayors or local elected officials would not be exercised with regard to decisions taken, in particular with regard to the reopening of schools. You have created this debate. And you have even created it within you, since democracy works very well in you. We were able to note, in committee, that the Members of the only group The Republicans defended three positions: some were in favour of the Senate text, others were in favour of the text proposed by the majority and others were in favour of any change in the law in force. Evidence that there is no unanimity on this subject in your ranks. Why did we want this writing? The courts on the merits assess situations differently and if the Court of Cassation proceeds to a standardization within the framework of the application of the Fauchon law, there are circumstances which justify that we accompany the judges on the merits. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The legal solution that we propose respects all the main principles of criminal law, the assessment of the commission of facts at the time when the decision was taken by public or private decision-makers as well as the material and intentional nature of any criminal offence. So that the scientific knowledge will be taken into account at the time the decision was made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u298	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u299	I would like you, Madam Minister, to answer the question that I asked you, the same one that our colleague Dumont asked you: can an electoral consultation be organised during the state of health emergency? I guess you won't get away...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u300	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u301	Pascal Brindeau and I have an affectionate thought for Pierre Fauchon, who was an exceptional senator and a great lawyer. And I remember how he drafted his bill, which was considered to be the most balanced by all the benches, in that he provided some protection but not impunity. You began this mandate with the 2017 vote on a bill for confidence in political life. But the article published this evening in Le Monde, to which François Pupponi referred, shows that when we exercise responsibilities we must assume them completely. You stated earlier, Madam Minister, that the judge will rule on a case-by-case basis, particularly given the scientific knowledge at the time of the facts. This consideration reminds me, who, at the time, was young intern, the case of contaminated blood and the trials that took place afterwards. There are always questions about what we knew at some point and what we didn't know. We learned yesterday, for example, that the results of the Discovery trial, concerning Covid-19 treatments, would come a little later than expected, but many want to know more. It is therefore appropriate to be careful that your writing...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u302	It's not my writing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u303	I can hear you, Madam Minister. To be precise, we must be careful that this wording, which you wish to keep since you do not support the amendments to delete it, does not lead you to spread the idea that we would have wanted to protect ourselves. We have no right to do so. We are responsible and we all act consciously and as best we can.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u304	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u305	I confess that I was very surprised by your answer, minister, because you first explain to us that the Fauchon Act is very good, and then you tell us that the drafting of the commission has the merit of reducing the responsibility of decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u306	It's contradictory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u307	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You cannot argue at the same time that these two paragraphs do not add anything and that they add much. Everyone understood that you want to take shelter behind the "state of scientific knowledge at the moment of the facts" to try to avoid the terrible judgments that will come upon the ministers and senior officials who have so badly managed this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u308	That's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u309	So be consistent: either you think that the Fauchon law is enough, or you are involved in a well orchestrated but not fooling anyone, aimed at exempting decision-makers from their responsibilities, which will further undermine our democracy. The French will judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u310	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u311	When the committee finished its work last night, I heard the majority say that they were not satisfied with the wording of paragraphs 2 and 3, in particular the words "status of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts", and that they were going to think about an alternative solution. Today, you keep these paragraphs as they stand, while insisting that the Fauchon law already provides everything in this matter. However, on the Fauchon law, the jurisprudence is constant, the minister said herself: the judge appreciates in concreteo, in the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts. So you write a chatty law, and sow confusion, suspicion. We therefore ask you to delete paragraphs 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u312	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u313	I prefer not to understand your position – I do not want to tell you that in fact I understand it unfortunately only too well. Since the beginning of this crisis, indeed, we have been talking about the deteriorating confidence and this is one of the main obstacles to an effective fight against the Covid-19, which presupposes that we are united, each Frenchman acting in a responsible, civic manner, without any mistrust of the Government. This trust, however, you further degrade it with these two paragraphs. You can still attack the oppositions, but the doubt about justice in France, the oppositions are not responsible for it. The idea that one is not judged in the same way depending on whether one is powerful or miserable is deeply rooted and constantly progressing among the French people. And in a country like France, where the people have the memory of things, do you think for a second that we have completely forgotten the case of contaminated blood? Of course it is present to everyone's mind when we talk about the responsibility of each other in managing this pandemic! Instead of saying that each public official will assume his or her responsibilities because he or she cannot go any differently, you introduce, with these paragraphs, a doubt about your intentions. So, of course, this is not an amnesty project, but a text that opens the possibility, in the future, of an amnesty, which is intolerable and unbearable for our fellow citizens. (Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u314	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u315	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u316	I am surprised because we are looking at a text on the extension of the state of health emergency and I did not imagine that we would have to discuss article 121-3 of the Penal Code. It is in fact following the adoption of a Senate amendment that the House has to ask itself a question which is not appropriate. As has been pointed out on all benches, and the majority who, I believe, share our opinion, must hear it well, the Fauchon law, written with a trembling hand for months and months, and the resulting jurisprudence, do not pose any problems: we have no legal vacuum to fill, no penal provision to complete so that criminal or criminal acts are condemned. The Assembly can very well, responsibly, turn its back on the Senate guidelines to forcefully argue that the law in force already protects the elected ones – it is enough to do pedagogy with the latter to show them. I don't suspect an amnesty will and I think it's a false trial. On the other hand, the addition which has been done here with caution, with a trembling hand, since, despite everything, you know that we do not change the penal code according to the circumstances, merely repeats what is already contained in the law. I do not imagine a judge who would have to decide a dispute about a health disaster like the one we are going through not taking into account the context or the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts. Therefore, if these paragraphs do not add anything to the Penal Code, they instill suspicion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u317	That's exactly it! What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u318	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u319	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] There is little to add to the observations of the seal keeper and the rapporteur. I have had to apply the Fauchon law and I cannot accept that our colleagues say that we would be writing an amnesty law by introducing these two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u320	So what are they for?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u321	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I, too, know what politics is, but there are limits. I am talking about the limits imposed by what the text actually contains: we are legislators and we cannot get the text to say what it does not say. Moreover, what prevents us from incorporating into a piece of legislation an element of jurisprudence? We often do so, and often the case law precedes the legislation that will confirm it. However, we are faced with a truly new situation in which we must specify an exceptional circumstance which seems to prevent certain actors, whether public or private – everyone is concerned up to the Government itself – from taking the decisions that will allow us to live again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u322	That's not how you're going to reassure them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u323	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand your reluctance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u324	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u325	The keeper of the seals said so, just as, at the moment, Laurence Vichnievsky: the paragraphs in question do not add anything, in terms of protection, to the law in force; They engrave in the marble of the law a jurisprudence according to which the judge evaluates in concreteo and therefore, in particular, according to the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts. Parliament has dealt with this issue in the context of the bill extending the state of health emergency, in a context where our fellow citizens are anxious, do not understand, sometimes prove defiant. Therefore, the solution of maintaining this provision, which does not create anything in law but raises some kind of suspicion, is worse than the one which would have consisted of sticking to the existing rules. That is the meaning of the amendments to delete sub-paragraphs 2 and 3. The debate is legitimate, but the addition we are talking about does not meet the requirement of our fellow citizens that the mayor of the most rural municipality of the Loir-et-Cher cannot be judged in the same way as the Director General of Health, should this happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u326	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u327	I will not go back to the substance of the debate, but I would like to respond to a number of points which I find difficult to ignore. I will not say anything about those of Mr Dupont-Aignan who are simply not at the height of the historic moment that we are experiencing, but this is not the first time and it will not be the last, I am afraid. As for you, Mr. Schellenberger, before you left,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u328	I'm not leaving at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u329	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. They extend until the end of the intervention of the Secretary of State]] ...I want to tell you that the way you attacked people who are not present is not very glorious and that it is even unworthy. You can't attack state agents like you did. I invite you to spend some time in the corridors of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health; I invite you to go to your prefecture; I invite you to visit your regional health agency. All these agents of the state who have been sleeping only a few hours a night for three months to protect the health of our citizens, it is to them too that we owe the fact that the epidemic is no more serious than it is. The way you have spoken is not worthy of a representative of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u330	You're not worthy to be a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u331	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u332	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to see politics in this House, this is the place. This is the place where what our fellow citizens think is expressed, what the people think. That is why, at the moment, we must express the anger that the French feel for not having been protected by your decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u333	It's shameful to say something like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u334	You who are appointed, Secretary of State, you cannot consider that one of the members of this assembly is not worthy of representing the people: we have been elected for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u335	I never said that! All I've talked about is what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u336	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] In response to the remarks made by my colleague Eric Ciotti at the beginning of the sitting, I would add that I am very disappointed that, for a text as important as this one, the Prime Minister or the Ministers of Health and Home Affairs are not there and that they have sent a Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u337	Really? Touched!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u338	Let's find our peace, please! I have before me nine amendments, Nos 178, 94, 421, 239, 166, 185, 403, 129 and 353, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u339	The debate on responsibility is difficult and delicate, as we can see. I'm afraid he's also causing a lot of confusion. Amendment No 178, of which Mr Guillaume Larrivé is the first signatory, proposes to improve the drafting of paragraphs 2 and 3. It is even a question of replacing them because, as you understand, for the members of the group The Republicans, they are subject to bail, to say no more, to utter great words or to take great postures. These paragraphs can lead to confusion when no one here wants a regime of self-amnesty, irresponsibility or immunity – I readily acknowledge this to each other. We propose, therefore, to replace paragraphs 2 and 3, five paragraphs clarifying, in the context of the application of the measures of the state of health emergency, the provisions of the Fauchon Act adopted in 2000, in the light of the case law which gave rise to this text. We confine ourselves to describing the contributions made by the case law of the Fauchon Act with regard to additional protection and particular lighting. This is what we propose without any posture that would cause a disproportionate emotion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u340	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u341	This subject can cause friction and it raises passion that is never good counselor. The Senate text was rather balanced because it allowed decision-makers to be treated according to their involvement. It guaranteed them not impunity but the possibility of taking decisions under the best possible conditions, setting the framework for their responsibility. As officials of authority and ministers were excluded from the scheme, there was no possible confusion: this provision had nothing to do with an amnesty. As for the text adopted last night in the Committee on Laws, it refers to the state of scientific knowledge, which raises some questions today, for example, concerning the administration of certain substances or the wearing of masks. In addition, she said that the text would apply to everyone. That is precisely the difficulty of the majority text, Madam Minister: it protects the powerful and the small in the same way. The powerful one is the minister, the officer of authority, the one who will regulate and design the deconfination. The small, the most modest, is the one who will enforce the decisions taken by others. It seems to me that there is a difference between the two. In order to ensure that there is no ambiguity and trial of intent, we propose to revert to a formulation closer to that of the Senate and to exclude from the application of this measure persons whose criminal responsibility is defined by article 68-1 of the Constitution, that is, ministers. You will achieve your goal without risking a trial of intent. On the other hand, if you maintain the wording of the commission, the doubt will persist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u342	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 421.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard the concern of local elected officials to rise from our constituencies. Before deciding whether or not to open schools in their communes, many of them are concerned about the risk of criminal proceedings to which they might be exposed. It would be harmful for mayors to make the decision not to open their schools for this single reason. The text adopted in the Senate exempts all decision-makers, at all levels, from criminal responsibility. But the French would not understand that elected officials, and in this case public or private officials, could be excluded from the general principle of criminal responsibility, from which no citizen can exonerate himself. It should therefore be pointed out that decision-makers at the central government and administrative level will be able to have their criminal responsibility engaged in the commission of crimes or offences demonstrated by judicial investigations. As drafted, paragraph 3 also appears to be intended to protect the Government from possible legal proceedings. The reference to "the state of scientific knowledge" is a way to avoid prosecution on the issue of masks, for example. For a mayor, responsible for enforcing a health protocol in a school, the state of science will not be of great help to prevent children from exchanging their pencils, which is a mode of circulation of the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u344	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u345	Local elected officials must ensure the implementation of the national guidelines in which they have not been involved, and they may be held criminally responsible, following decisions taken by the Government. It therefore seems to me legitimate to strengthen the protection of their responsibility for decisions of which they are only executors. This is all the more legitimate because, in some cases, they are prevented from taking measures that ensure the safety of their fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u346	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u347	This debate contains two poisons: mitigation of responsibility and suspicion. There is no political commitment, no mission at the service of the public, no responsibility. In a political commitment, responsibility is total or zero. It's either one or the other. Any attempt to tinker or adjust a liability is a negation of what politics is. I say it as I think it is, this debate is indicative of what has gradually become of politics: a skeleton. A few decades ago, the honour of politics was to assume its responsibilities. More recently, in the case of contaminated blood, we were given the notion of "responsible but not guilty". The Republic and justice had already inflicted a fatal blow on the concept of political responsibility. Now we would be strengthening the disconnect between politics and responsibility. This idea is purely crazy and even absolutely dangerous. As for the second poison, suspicion, you can't get rid of it. These amendments and attempts to rewrite lead to suspicion. If all this leads to nothing, then don't change anything! In conclusion, I should like to address the Secretary of State. There are no heroes here. Neither you nor we are heroes. Heroes are those who assume their responsibilities on the ground without ever asking for protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u348	Amendment No 185 by Mr Guillaume Larrivée is being defended. I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u349	If you do not wish to delete paragraphs 2 and 3, at least ensure that they apply only to mayors and local elected officials who are obliged to follow instructions you give them. Moreover, this whole debate arose from the concern of senators to limit the responsibility of mayors who receive instructions from the prefects, mayors to whom the Council of State denied all autonomy and independence in their decisions by rejecting, by a recent order, the application of the commune of Seals concerning the wearing of the mask. I therefore propose to limit the application of this mitigation of responsibility to local elected officials alone, leaving full responsibility to those who ordered the acts: the directors of central administration and the ministers who will be accountable to the French. As Mr. Pradié has said, the issue of accountability is inherent in the political commitment and exercise of these functions. For the mayors, whom you order to make decisions against their will, the concern of the Senate is understandable; We need to find the legal formula to answer it. The custody of the seals will undoubtedly refer to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council that no distinction can be made between persons. But the situation is different: some – ministers, directors, prefects – give orders; Others are obliged to apply them and are in some way liable by proxy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u350	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u351	The mayors proved their effectiveness during the crisis and we were very happy to find them. They must of course be given more latitude because they are closer to the difficulties of our fellow citizens. However, in the fight against the Covid-19, administrative and criminal responsibilities are shared between mayors and the state. Amendment No 129 seeks to secure mayors, in particular when exercising their powers in the field of education. We must therefore continue to protect the mayors, especially those of the rural communes – such as Hélesmes and Famars in my constituency, whose elected representatives have called us to help. But it should not be used to protect public officials, especially ministers, who would have taken the decisions. But you jumped on the occasion of the debate in the Senate to open this door. A tweet sent by Mrs.Aurore Bergé, on May 3, the eve of the Senate Law Commission meeting, shows that you had considered it. You opened a door to eventually sneak you into this irresponsibility corridor. If you do, it will be the last nail on your coffin, but it may also be the last nail on the coffin of the entire political class.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u352	I call Mr Krabal to support Amendment No. 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u353	We discuss the responsibility of mayors as well as that of all elected officials. Every mayor who has the honour of exercising such a mandate, in a rural commune or in a large city, knows that he has to assume his responsibilities, he knows that he will not clear his customs. However, he wanted the exceptional nature of a situation to be taken into account if he was called into question and his responsibility was incurred. Paragraph 3 should therefore be drafted in such a way as to take into account, in the event of a crisis involving a state of health emergency, the means and knowledge available to mayors, elected officials and public officials at the time when their responsibility was called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u354	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u355	With these amendments, some of which are aimed at re-establishing the text in the language that the Senate had given us, we are returning to a debate that we had earlier. However, I would like to give a precise answer, so that we can understand each other well. Several of these amendments are aimed at eliminating criminal liability in the event of serious and serious misconduct, while the perpetrator could not ignore that he was exposing others to a risk of particular gravity. Let us be clear: this case corresponds not to the case of a mayor who could not have taken all the necessary precautions in the face of the epidemic because of lack of adequate means, but to the case of a decision-maker who, for example, would have brought together a large number of people in a public meeting and refused – I say quite refused – to take the necessary prophylactic measures. That is the problem with these amendments and, as was said earlier, the wording adopted by the Senate. I would also like to reiterate that some amendments also pose a risk of a breach of equality by limiting the scope of the scheme to acts taken during the state of health emergency. In concrete terms, this scheme would not apply to a mayor of Alsace who had taken measures before the declaration of the state of emergency, whereas a mayor of Brittany acting within the framework of the latter would be concerned. That is a problem. Finally, the adoption of such amendments would change the architecture of the criminal liability regime by creating different categories. With regard to the question of available scientific knowledge, which has been the subject of exchanges in committee, I repeat that it will be up to the judge to assess their state at the time of the facts, as well as the degree of information given to the person concerned. The judge will not appreciate in the same way the knowledge expected of a director of SRA and the knowledge expected of a mayor or business manager. However, any liability is based on knowledge not only of the rules of law, but also of the rules of prudence or security. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u357	Three things. First of all, I fully agree with the view expressed by many of you that for all those who have responsibilities – whether they are public decision-makers or private decision-makers, since, as I recall, the provisions of the Penal Code are addressed to everyone, regardless – there is an ethics of decision-making and that this ethics is closely correlated with the issue of responsibility. It goes without saying, it cannot be otherwise, and it is quite salutary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u358	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] This is the first time you've put us on average!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u359	However, our rule of law requires, as has been said, specific conditions for this responsibility to be incurred. If I am not in favour of the text as it was adopted by the Senate or as it would be amended by several of the amendments before you, that is for two reasons. The first is, as the rapporteur has pointed out, that it would create a particular different legal regime by removing – this is the crucial point – the concept of gross misconduct.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u360	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u361	That is the case, however, and it is impossible for us to embark on this path. The second reason is that, in doing so, it would introduce a break in equality. However, as I said at the moment, the principle of equality before criminal law is an essential principle. This breach of equality before the criminal law would be twofold. This would first be a breakdown of temporal equality, since, in the face of the same situation, namely the Covid-19 epidemic, there would be different regimes of responsibility depending on whether or not one would act in the context of the state of health emergency. There would then be a breach of equality between the authorities that make the decisions: some could be held liable simply by negligence or carelessness, while others, in similar situations, would be held liable for deliberate violation – which is obviously not the same. If I agree with the ethics of accountability, I find that the wording adopted by the Senate is not satisfactory; Many of these amendments take it back. Finally, it seems to me important to reassure the elected representatives, especially the mayors – since there has been a lot of talk about it. In this regard, the addition made by the Law Commission of the National Assembly does not seem to me to be unnecessary, because it provides a clarification, without changing the rule of law. If a clarification can be accepted, no derogation or exemption from liability can be accepted. The Government was opposed to the amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u362	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u363	Having asked with conviction that the Fauchon law should remain in force during the examination of the amendment which we adopted yesterday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans – as it is mainly about them – now ask us to re-establish the text in the wording adopted by the Senate on the initiative of the Chairman and Rapporteur of the Law Committee, Mr Philippe Bas: admit that it is surprising! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a parliamentary procedure. A joint joint committee will meet. There is a strong expectation of mayors. The honourable senators have heard it. I would remind you, however, that at the outset there was a bill that looked more like an advertising slogan than anything else and which, for this reason undoubtedly, was supported by the President of the Association of Mayors of France. President Bas was obliged to put the book back on the job in order to bring some seriousness from the legal point of view. A mechanism was adopted in the Law Committee yesterday. I am convinced, because I heard it from President Bas who was interviewed on the Public Senate, that we will find an agreement in CMP to meet the legitimate expectations of the mayors and legally secure all the decisions that all stakeholders will have to make in the fight against the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u364	So, you might as well go straight to CMP!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u365	Mr. Questel, you have just confessed: your writing is intended to protect "all stakeholders"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u366	The law applies to everyone, Mr. Ciotti!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u367	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u368	I find that all these amendments are the result of legitimate fears – even though I do not think that the amendments are legitimate, or even timely, because they risk introducing bias into the Fauchon law, a bias that could result in people who have actually committed mistakes, even unintentionally, but characterized, being able to get away with them. I don't think that's anyone's intention here. The main problem, in fact, is that the plan proposed by the Government is not being finalized. My colleague Éric Coquerel told me that at RATP, most agents did not have clear information about what will happen on Monday – not to mention that the Prime Minister said earlier that Île-de-France was a somewhat special case, classified red, and that we should be particularly vigilant, after the 11th, to respect the gestures of barriers and social distancing in public transport. But this is not the case today: in the RER, during rush hours, people are side by side, without masks – we see it on screenshots of surveillance videos that circulate on the internet. However, if the fears are well-founded, I do not think there is a need to amend the Fauchon law, because we would do worse than better. It is preferable to remain in the current state. That is why I am going to propose that you amend the government text to bring it to a legal nullity and to make the law ineffective, so that we can remain at the current state of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u369	This is not the "government text"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u370	The reference to the state of scientific knowledge is questionable, because there is still something disturbing in the current situation: it has been several times that the Government, particularly through the voice of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, points out, with regard to masks, that at one time scientists said that it was no use to wear them, while others claimed the opposite. Given that controversy is what, by its very nature, animates science, it is clear that by focusing on scientific aspects before the judge, we can do well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u371	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u372	You say, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that paragraphs 2 and 3 will not change anything in law. That means we're making a gossip law! However, I remember that in this House we were repeatedly denied amendments on the pretext that they would not change positive law and that all this was nothing but useless chatter. Today, you support the inclusion in the text of provisions that are of no use, since positive law will not be changed in any way. You also say that the amendments before us are problematic because they would be tantamount to exempting mayors or elected municipal officials who commit a mistake from their responsibility. Let us take the example of Amendment No. 185 by Mr Larrivé: it states that the criminal responsibility of a mayor, or of a municipal elected representative, the deputy or having received a delegation "can only be committed if it is established that he has the means to implement this decision fully and that, by negligence or negligence, he has manifestly deliberately committed a serious fault". There is therefore no exemption from liability if the fault is characterized, and these amendments – at least some of them – are in line with the arrangements you call for and which aim, without totally exempting mayors or municipal elected officials from their responsibility, to take into account the fact that they have been required to implement certain decisions and that, for lack of means, they have not been able to ensure the health and safety of their fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u373	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u374	First of all, as our colleague has just said, the proposed amendments are not intended to exempt mayors from any responsibility. To affirm this is an exaggeration on your part. Secondly, you speak of equality, but the situation of a mayor who applies a prefect's directive is not that of a prefect, a head of central administration, a minister, who makes decisions applicable to mayors: the legislation can therefore distinguish them. Finally, you are surprised when the Government is suspected of preparing its defence, predicting that trial time will come. This is not a trial of intent, but a concordance of arguments: since the beginning of this crisis, to justify your manipulations, your lies, your incompetences, you always invoke scientific expertise; as by chance, you choose this scientific excuse to mitigate the responsibility of decision-makers, of all decision-makers. You will allow me to think that you are neither unconscious nor stupid, and that in view of the disaster, the number of victims in our country, the weakness of parliamentary control, the number of complaints, it is knowingly that you are preparing your defence and mitigating your responsibility. In a way, it is a tendency towards amnesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u375	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u376	These amendments aim to do exactly what we did not want to do, that is to say to create a specific regime, legislation specific to the health crisis that we are going through. While you say you do not want to touch the Fauchon law, you create cases of exemption: that is what we do not want. We wanted, and that is what we do, to maintain the beautiful architecture of the Fauchon law, which achieved an excellent balance. Of course, we never raise any mitigation of responsibility. We remain in the general principles of our criminal law. We add, we incorporate an element of jurisprudence, which we are free to do. It will apply very specifically in the event of a health disaster, i.e. beyond the only epidemic of Covid-19. We are talking about the circumstances that the magistrates usually appreciate; we specify them because we know a situation that is not usual.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u377	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-07-O1201.u378	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions. The meeting is adjourned.
