ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u1	The next item is the debate on the advisability of a fourth industrial, ecological and digital revolution. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u2	Molière said in his time: "Almost all men die from their remedies and not from their diseases. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u3	It's a Molière character who says that, not Molière himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u4	For almost five months, 190 countries and territories have been struggling with a new pandemic that is particularly deadly and anxiogenic, as its characteristics and mechanisms are little known. Only the thesis on the origin of the disease appears to be valid, revealing the close links between the proven destruction of ecosystems and the outbreak of this epidemic. The relationship between overexploitation of resources and the emergence of zoonosis – this type of animal-borne infections to humans – has been established for many years. Unfortunately, the alerts of the researchers remained unanswered. While lessons need to be learned from crisis management at the international and national levels, we, as policymakers, must also reflect on changing interactions between human populations and biodiversity. The health crisis will have disastrous economic and social consequences for our country, but it may be a huge opportunity to transform our production, consumption and finally accelerate the ecological transition. Major epidemics have often led to major advances in science and technology. These desirable developments must now focus on low-carbon research and innovation. For if we wish to leave behind pandemics, such as the one that is currently hitting us, the relationship between natural resources and our industrial society must be completely rethought. Today, more than ever, the need for a rapid and strong ecological transition is, therefore, widely needed. Is this change in the social model, made indispensable for regulating pandemics and combating climate drift, not laying the foundations for a new industrial revolution? Previous ones have laid the groundwork for today's world. The first was made possible at the end of the 18th century by the massive extraction of coal and by the operation of the steam machine; the second took place at the end of the 19th century thanks to the emergence of electricity, gas and oil; The third, which began at the end of the 20th century, was characterized by nuclear energy and the development of electronics. After the health, ecological and economic crisis that we have been going through in recent months, are we not at the beginning of a fourth industrial revolution, of which human beings and virtuous economic ecosystems would be the guiding thread? If we call for this new industrialization, called for by many French people, and if we want this process to be successful, we must define, after collective work – guaranteeing the success of their implementation – fundamentals accepted by all citizens. As parliamentarians, let us therefore take this opportunity to direct our work towards this new industrial society, which could be structured around two fundamental issues: our relationship to the planet and the reshaping of our social ties. The first question that arises is: how do we want to live with nature? I invite you, by the way, to read the interview with Philippe Descola published today in Le Monde. This anthropologist perfectly develops certain tracks on which I do not have time, here, to linger. In my view, our relationship to the planet must be at the heart of our thinking. If we begin a transition to a new model of society, the decarbonization of our industry is an absolute first condition. The development of renewable energies, the deployment of soft and active mobility, the reorganisation of our ecological taxation or the goal of zero net artificialisation of soils are necessary steps. To achieve them, public investment in low-carbon technology research must increase in order to offer new solutions in energy supply. But every company must also be encouraged to undertake low-carbon transitions, for example through tax advantages. Public banks will, of course, also be able to play a role in financing the decarbonisation of our economies. The development of renewable energy will also have to be part of our thinking because we cannot move from a diesel- and gasoline-dependent society to an electricity-dependent society. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement hopes that this new industrial revolution will be based on a real energy mix in which renewable gas, green hydrogen and geothermal energy will have their full place. We must, of course, meet a second requirement: to put an end to the destruction of natural habitats, which is one of the causes of zoonoses. It is necessary to transform our land use so that our production is sustainable in the long term, a resilience of ecosystems that avoids the irremediable transformation of landscapes. The agricultural world, aware of these challenges, has, in part, seized these challenges by changing practices and developing quality labels and brands. Our decisions must foster more rational attitudes in agriculture and livestock. So let us accompany massively the agricultural transition but also, for example, the renovation of our energy-efficient buildings. The setting up of large areas of the natural territory seems to be a solution, as these areas are little or no man-made. The Government's objective of increasing the share of marine and terrestrial protected areas to 30 per cent, one third of which was natural by 2022, was to be welcomed. But we must stick to it and raise the level of our ambitions even further by affirming strong objectives for virtuous urban planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u6	After addressing the issue of our relationship to nature, the second is how we want to live between humans. Reshaping human ties is, in our view, the second condition of a new model of society. First of all, I am thinking of the systematic integration by companies of social and environmental concerns into their business activities and their relations with stakeholders. I am also thinking of a new distribution of value chains so that development can no longer be assessed solely on the basis of wealth and growth, but also taking into account social, health and environmental indicators. Value should not be measured by wealth creation alone, but above all by very different criteria such as social bonding, health, level of education and respect for environmental objectives. As we are now seeing, the preservation of health and ecology guarantees quality of life and even survival. At the country level, both must be as important as economic growth. The value of a healthy life surpasses the benefits of increased consumption – this was the conclusion of the Stiglitz Commission in 2009. These indicators of social well-being will also have the advantage of being indicators of social inequality, which will have been the basis of many of the crises we have experienced. The protest movement of the yellow vests, on the one hand, and the containment due to the epidemic, on the other hand, have highlighted a highly underestimated aspect: the search for human ties. Many took advantage of the first crisis to recreate the social bond, to be in contact with others again, and during the second one saw the French develop new bonds of solidarity, among others by supporting caregivers or assisting elderly or isolated people. Isn't that the society we all want? This human link must be the basis of our economic and social indicators. We must get rid of the obsession with gross domestic product – GDP – and invent new growth indicators by no longer considering wealth creation as a standard but by integrating the creation of these value chains. This reshaping of relations between individuals is a corollary of this fourth industrial revolution, the deployment of digital technology in the service of human beings. Indeed, while the third industrial revolution was based on the massive development of new technologies, the European economies have left out the impact of digital tools on the environment. It is known that global electricity consumption, due to our phones, tablets, computers, but also data centres and networks, is steadily increasing. The development of new technologies and the expansion of artificial intelligence should not be a pretext for suppressing people but a vector for creating and facilitating the real human link. All this reflection on low-carbon reindustrialization will of course be possible only in a wider framework of multilateral cooperation. At the international level, France's positions have always been consistent: the protection of biodiversity, the expansion of protected areas, the fight against trafficking in animals – the cause of emerging diseases – and, of course, the enhancement of our local products. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] International trade cannot, of course, be ignored, but it must be seen in terms of balance, sustainability and international aid. Let us therefore take advantage of the upcoming international meetings to go in this direction. As we see, the crisis of the covid-19 is the time, at the same time, to propose a new framework for rethinking our relationship to the planet and to revisit certain economic and practical considerations, since the answers of the past are obviously not working. This new specification should allow the reindustrialization of our economy, which will enhance low-carbon innovation, medical research, the redesign of the social link and a rational relocation of our activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u7	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u8	Our colleagues in the MODEM Group invite us to look at the possibilities opened up by the fourth industrial revolution and to reflect on its consequences for the world to come, in the light of the health crisis. It seems to me imperative that this industrial revolution be thought of as an opportunity for our territories. If it is a feature of this global change, it is indeed the central place given to digital. However, the development of all the capabilities offered by it is insufficient in some of our territories. The dematerialization of trade and the development of new technologies will facilitate contacts between remote territories and populations, thus enabling action to be taken on land-use planning in favour of rural, peri-urban and medium-sized towns. If this development can be seen as an opportunity, it will greatly facilitate the emergence of a strong new act of decentralization. While the first two industrial revolutions have resulted in the concentration of large parts of the population around places of production, such as factories, leading to massive urbanization, we must grasp the positive elements of the profound change that we are experiencing in order to rebalance our territories. This industrial development must take into account the economic actors – small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, breeders, artisans, traders, workers, employees – who want to do otherwise, especially in the territories where alternative means of production are safeguarded. This word does not refer to marginal or eccentric production, but to the maintenance or return of productive techniques in line with the needs and challenges of tomorrow: agroecology, respect for cultures, seasonality, responsible distribution and consumption. Technological improvement must offer models that protect our farmers, producers, breeders, traders, artisans and employees by enabling them to improve the flow of their production in a concrete manner in accordance with the approach in which they are engaged. This revolution must also improve the service sector. As we saw during the covid-19 crisis, the possibilities opened up by telework, for example, represent a change both in the relationship to work and in the interactions between people. But there are questions about the increase in productivity in telework, the right to disconnect, the assimilation of one's place of residence into one's working environment – all of which must be considered if we are to move towards a change in practice. The opportunities offered by the fourth industrial revolution must be a means of accompanying what we decide, not an imposed model. Robotisation, production processes based on algorithms under the pretext of infinite increase in productivity... That's what we don't want. Another, perhaps the most important, issue: this fourth industrial revolution must and must place the human at the centre. All industrial revolutions have had an impact on the way of life of the men and women who make up our societies; the current one will perhaps upset our social and economic relations more than any other before. It will have a considerable impact on the labour market: robotization and the development of artificial intelligence will destroy a very large number of jobs; Some tasks will be deleted because they become useless, others will be performed by robots. What are the capabilities of a human in the face of the speed of calculation, communication and analysis of these technologies? Dematerialization will upset our interpersonal relationships: if everything goes through the internet, that the treatment is carried out by artificial intelligence and delivery, by new technical means, what will remain of the human relationship? What will remain of the possibility of discovering a book out of algorithmic calculations that depend on our research history? Let's think of the doors that close and lock in the tastes imposed because more profitable. What about the security of our data already widely collected and used for commercial purposes? If human beings are deeply affected by this industrial revolution, it must involve them: consultation and decision-making must be the responsibility of the men and women who make up our society. To make a conscious choice, they will need knowledge of these processes. Whatever the specificities of each industrial revolution, they must take into account the human person, whom they have all too often forgotten. Yes to technology and technology as factors for development, provided they improve the situation of men and women while respecting our ecosystems. The challenge is not to know whether we are for or against a revolution that is already under way, but to set its objectives, otherwise we will have to go after it once again to protect those who have been damaged by its progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u9	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u10	I thank the MODEM and related Group for having scheduled this debate on the occasion of the monitoring week. The health crisis that we are experiencing is only the tip of the iceberg, the submerged part, alas much larger, being the economic and social crisis that we are going to be going through, perhaps the strongest that we will have to experience, in the contemporary period, since the crisis of 1929. In our misfortune, we have a duty to seize the opportunity offered by the recovery plans – those of states like the one announced yesterday – to counter the crisis, thanks to which thousands of billions of euros will be injected into the economic machine on a European scale. The question is what meaning we're going to give to the money we're going to spend. We can ensure that it contributes to a new economic, social and environmental model, a society project that gives our societies what they need most in the current context: hope. This new economic, social and environmental model, which we must build around humans and the planet, must, in our view, be based on four priorities. The first, of course, is renewable energy. We need to strengthen research on tomorrow's energies: we are finally only in the 21st century and we would be humble in assuming that not all energies have yet been discovered. It is therefore necessary to put the package in place in order to find the energies that will actually take over fossil fuels over the course of the century. The second priority is the planet, the environment, our relationship to man, but also to biodiversity. We must ensure that we can continue to produce – we are in favour of growth and not of decline – but in a circular economy that allows the recycling of all products. Indeed, we will not be able to continue to draw raw materials from the planet indefinitely, some of which will dry up in the course of this century; It is therefore necessary to ensure that everything is recyclable. The third priority, of course, is digital – which is to put at the service of man and the planet. Mr Balanant said it and we will come back to it: we will have to remove a contradiction. Indeed, digital is a consumer of energy. Thus, simply sending an email with an attachment implies an energy consumption equivalent to that of a bulb lit for an hour; Few people know it, but it's a reality. To succeed in this digital revolution, we will also have to equip ourselves with the industries that will enable it; At European level, however, we do not have GAFAM – Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft – US or BATX – Baidu, Alibaba, Tencent and Xiaomi – Chinese. Today we must build a European digital sovereignty in order to have tomorrow a kind of digital Airbus that allows Europe to play, in this field, in the court of greats and to really put, as Joaquim Pueyo said, digital at the service of human beings. Finally – as you can see right now – the fourth priority is health. It is necessary to ensure that digital is also at the service of the latter, in particular through the applications that will be put at the service of all generations. I am thinking in particular of the upcoming papy-boom, which raises the question of the dependency and home retention of older people. Here too, the digital revolution can serve us. [[MM. Jimmy Pahun and Bertrand Bouyx applaud]] These are the four priorities that we believe need to determine a new economic, social and environmental model. We are living in a historical period: a part of our economy is unfortunately collapsing, but we have the opportunity to build this new model, to draw a project of society that gives hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u11	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u12	The unprecedented crisis we are going through undoubtedly reveals the weaknesses of our economic model. In particular, it highlights our dependence on third countries in the European Union, in particular China – which is more important for the supply of basic necessities. The de-industrialization movement of our country is old, it dates back at least to the 1980s. Although it can be recognized that industrial job creation has been partially halted since 2017, industrial rearmament policies are long-term – something that must be borne in mind when talking about relocating certain strategic activities. Minister of Economy and Finance Bruno Le Maire has repeatedly argued for a reindustrialization of the productive fabric. The injunction for relocation, however, has no effect if it is not followed by a policy of attractiveness of the territory, which must first be reflected in the recasting of our fiscal policy. To begin with, we need to look at the various production taxes – the social solidarity contribution of companies, the C3S, the value added contribution of companies, the CVAE, the property contribution of companies, the CFE – which are, as we know, considered by some to be too high. Drawing competitiveness down, they contribute to the relative atony of the French economy. Moreover, the Government had made the reduction of these taxes one of the key projects to be carried out. Will it still be up to date after the crisis? Will it be one of the levers of your recovery plan? Once this question has been asked, it is necessary to look at the finances of local and regional authorities whose production taxes represent a structural part. We are convinced that only a reform of local taxation will guarantee the financial autonomy of the communities and restore our territories to their attractiveness. Hence this other question: has the crisis prompted you to reconsider your objectives, to strengthen the first two pillars of the 3D law – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration? Will you finally give the local authorities the means to carry out a policy of attractiveness of the territory? Another lever for action is support for research and innovation. While we have long had world-renowned laboratories and researchers, we are not as present as we should be in the technological revolution. In France, the research tax credit plays a key role in stimulating innovation; We also regret the reduction in the overall budget allocated to it in the Finance Act for 2020. Are you considering a reform of this scheme in order to support the research and development expenditure of its beneficiaries in the context of crisis? In the same vein, are there any inflections in European innovation policy to allow for the emergence of new European champions? Industrial recovery must also be in line with the ecological imperative. In the face of the climate emergency, we need a green revolution based on a circular economy, while taking advantage of the smart technologies of the Internet of Things. At the key is the development of tomorrow's industries, whether it be the transformation of the aviation sector, the electric battery or electric vehicles. Here too, public support for investment will be crucial, which is why the Libertés et territoires Group will pay particular attention to the deployment of the Green Deal for Europe. This, however, cannot be enough; What is the status of the proposed carbon tax on Europe's borders? Is the setting of a floor price for the carbon quota under consideration? To carry out a new industrial revolution under the ecological seal is also to perpetuate the successes that have emerged from this crisis: I am thinking of the short production circuits. In the field of handicrafts and agri-food, it is the multiplication of these processes that will make it possible to revive the territories far from the metropolises. That is why I will add the agricultural revolution to the industrial, ecological and digital revolution. More than ever, French agriculture must take the turn of an ecological transformation, creating value and in line with consumers' expectations. Finally, in a few days, the European Commission will announce its recovery plan. It could be an opportunity for Europe to stand on the world stage as a driving force for this new revolution. The Union shall have the necessary skills, knowledge and strength; It is up to her not to miss out on this historic opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u13	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u14	A revolution involves a change, a profound upheaval, but there is no indication of the meaning of the rupture. If there must be a fourth industrial, ecological and digital revolution, we must agree on its objectives and its orientation, not simply in words – I am thinking in particular of ecology, which may be simple and pure communication – but in acts. For, for us, it is never a question of accompanying decided technical or economic developments, I do not know where, by multinationals or by the European Central Bank; We aim to master our destiny and therefore seek the capacity to decide democratically on our industrial and digital organization in order to achieve a better life, committing for it the necessary social and ecological reforms. If we were to tell the story of the last few months, ladies and gentlemen, the story would be horribly dotted with holes and gaps. The state's lack of confidence has appeared in its smallness, leaving to everyone – and especially to everyone – the task of coping with cascading shortages. Blouses sometimes made with garbage bags, masks attached with staples, extensions of hospitals in tents due to a shortage of beds: every day the list of deficiencies has grown and, with it, its procession of victims. It is the professionalism and sense of the common good in society that have made it possible to hold where the power in place, the Government, has clinged to incoherence, lies and incompetence. In a way, the covid-19 gave us a mirror, it revealed the structural flaws of our social organization. These flaws, we must name them: austerity, neoliberalism and consumerism that do not protect or liberate but destroy our ability to cope with such crises. But these crises will be repeated with climate change. Unfortunately, the one we are going through is only a repetition of the disasters that await us. Austerity, neoliberalism and consumerism turn their backs on the sharing and development of what is needed to live well. Still, everyone has to agree to look at this mirror strained by the virus. When we hear the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, tell us that France has "never been in a break of masks", when we listen to him gargarise himself of his plan for the hospital – a super-strategy that should have been decided ten years earlier – we remember that he is not more blind than he who does not want to see. The reality is that our industrial sector is fallow, yes, damaged by decades of public policies that have encouraged relocation, economic deregulation and dilapidation of state-owned enterprises. Between 1980 and 2018, our industry lost 2.2 million jobs. And the "start-up nation" did not just remove the dedicated ministry, it boned our industrial apparatus to deliver it to the game of finance. How, then, is it surprising that she has remained deaf to our calls for reactivations, nationalizations of factories that can produce masks or oxygen bottles? The crisis of the covid -19 plunges us further into a world of all perils – which we will never be able to face in this context of globalized capitalism and frantic productivism. It is time to put an end to the great move of the world, as the powers in place have constantly multiplied the free trade treaties. Even at the height of the crisis, you were able to sign it! Our agricultural policy needs to be reoriented in depth. The time has also come to relocate our production while the Government has constantly encouraged relocations and has given way to the flagships of our industry: Alstom, Technip, Alcatel, Latécoère and so many others. We need to develop activities that make sense in the context of a necessary ecological revolution – thermal insulation, renewable energies, rail and river transport – at a time when Emmanuel Macron and Édouard Philippe have their eyes on aeronautics and automobiles, two sectors that have benefited from the recent aid. We have stopped, ladies and gentlemen. It's amazing: the economy has stopped! Isn't it time to ask ourselves what we really need? Production must be backed up to the real needs of all and not create artificial needs to increase profits. That is the meaning of the revolution that we want to promote. Finally, it is more than time to support the SMEs and the TPEs, the very small enterprises, frankly. We must also stop giving billions to large companies without any counterpart. Digital giants should not be allowed the freedom to develop this sector according to their financial appetites. Individual and collective freedoms must be guaranteed in the development of digital technology and equal access to such technological progress. In short, we must make a Copernician revolution. But you are locked in a frame that does not allow you to lead it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u15	I just spent ten minutes explaining the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u16	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u17	[[Smile]] The communist I'm sure is happy to talk about revolution, you know that. We still need to know which, how to do it and with whom – obviously crucial issues. We are really experiencing a pivotal period, which calls for great transformations. In any case, citizens are wondering about the need to rethink an entire system in many ways, not just our practices. According to American historian Mike Davis, the covid-19 opened Pandora's box by exposing all the flaws of global capitalism. Hope should not remain at the bottom of the box, which can nevertheless be feared. The spread of covid-19, described as an anthropocene disease, is related to how human beings inhabit and use the earth. We can link global health to climate-related economic activities. In many parts of the world, the industrialization of fishing and massive deforestation have given rise to new diseases that can be feared to multiply. Faced with the environmental and health emergency, we see the need to take action to break it down. We call for a real ecological revolution which, frankly, involves the reorientation or halting of entire sectors of industry. Such a revolution must take place with the citizens and even be decided by them on the basis of their needs – this citizen involvement must therefore be the driving force behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u18	That's what I said, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u19	With this revolution and its indispensable ruptures, it is a matter of breaking with the logic of profit at all costs that has weakened and even reduced the capacity of States to respond to the crisis. Following the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, SARS, in 2003, two vaccines were being developed in U.S. laboratories. Without sufficient funding and commercial purpose, the research had been stopped while these vaccines could have been of great value today. Millions of people around the world could turn into hunger. In our country, the queues have grown in front of the popular relief and food banks; students are in "survival mode"; Some parents prefer to skip lunch to leave it to their children who no longer have access to the canteen. Yet, food exists on our planet. Although there is no shortage in sight, the law of the market threatens to throw hundreds of millions of human beings into distress. This Kafkaian logic was found in the management of the epidemic in France. Since the beginning of the crisis, public health professionals and citizens have been asking for free masks for the entire population. Refusal. For many years, caregivers have been demanding a significant financial injection into the public hospital. Refusal. This system is guided by maximum profit. Those who support it, like those who feed it, have responsibilities for both the causes of this virus and our ability to cope with it. In view of the time allocated to me, I come to the proposals without going further into crisis management. Ecology risks losing ground in the wake of the recovery: China announced a plan that relies heavily on coal mining; Donald Trump dismantles anti-pollution standards for vehicles; in France, millions of euros are paid to large companies that don't care about humans and non-humans. We stick to slogans: "Ecological transition at the heart of the next", "Green Deal" and others. But there are solutions. They call for very profound and urgent changes. Yet many citizens aspire to these breaks that must be put at the heart of choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u20	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u21	We submit some emergency measures: disarming the financial markets; condition the aid of the Central Bank and that of enterprises for the social and ecological conversion of the latter; detoxifying French banks of oil assets; massive support for public services; undertaking an ambitious plan for the relocation of agriculture; build on the intelligence and citizen involvement that are unfolding in society; think about digital and how it relates to environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u22	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u23	On behalf of the La République Group on the move, I would like first of all to thank our colleagues in the MODEM Group and their associates for putting this issue on the agenda of our monitoring week. This debate is not born out of nowhere, it is not timeless, but it happens after two important presentations. The first took place at European level on 11 December 2019: the Green Pact set out the way forward for the continent to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. The second took place at national level on 15 October 2019: according to the broad guidelines of the productive pact, the aim was to build a new French model that respects the environment in order to achieve full employment. Above all, this debate is organized after a major global event: the covid-19 pandemic. By revealing our dependence in many strategic economic areas, this health crisis has put the imperative of sovereignty on the agenda. This will does not rhyme with self-absorbing and the closing of borders; it requires the reconquest of our strategic industries. We must rely on a logic of circular economy and societal, environmental and territorial responsibility. A number of projects must therefore be undertaken: the development of an energy mix through the development of renewable energies, the energy sobriety of production and transport modes, permaculture, longer product lifespan, recycling of materials. The extraction of raw materials, in close connection with the circular economy, is of strategic interest until now very little considered. In France, only 18% of companies are aware of their entire supply chain, one learns in a report on the vulnerability of companies' supplies, published at the beginning of June. However, we see a risk of inflation and even the possibility of interruption of supplies. This risk is known for some metals: in Europe, most of the metallurgy, electronics, chemistry and energy sectors depend critically on metal resources extracted mainly in China and Africa. The environmental and social consequences of mining are the subject of great attention and even mistrust on the part of our fellow citizens. However, conciliation is possible. We can consider redesigning the mining code, setting the conditions for sustainable and responsible mining throughout the life cycle of a mine. The circular economy will allow us to strengthen the position of French and European companies in the competition for resources. To do this, we must support and support the evolution and transformation of the production tool. To be realistic, we will also have to apply the rules that we will apply to ourselves in the field of responsible exploitation abroad, because we will always need to use resources from partner countries in a relationship based on respect and benevolence. The fourth industrial revolution will also be territorial. By declining the circular economy in the inter-firm relationship, waste from one can become the raw material of the other, in order to create industrial symbioses. Industrial ecology is then part of a sustainable economic and regional development strategy. The second pillar of this revolution: digital technology, this formidable vehicle for the development of the economy and education, which we have seen recently, not only the merits but also the limits. France, which has indescribable assets in this field, must join the talents of other members of the European Union to ensure true digital sovereignty on a continent-wide basis. We need to make progress in protecting and securing our data. It is therefore necessary to invest heavily in quantum technologies, cybersecurity and data storage and processing infrastructure, in order to guarantee security and sovereignty. That's the stakes of the future. To quote Michel Paulin, Managing Director of the French data storage service provider OVH, we must create the sovereignty of values. The aim is to encourage public and private investment in companies concerned with their environmental footprint and non-financial performance. This also involves the strategic use of public procurement, integrating specifications and criteria for the protection and development of the environment, social progress and economic development. This fourth industrial revolution will be inclusive in that it will establish a dialogue between all stakeholders: suppliers, local actors, employees and representatives of civil society. This dialogue will cover both the identification of negative impacts and how to address them, and the optimisation of positive impacts and the strengthening of the social link. Without delay and without fear, let us enter fully into this industrial revolution that will achieve the balance between economic development, sovereignty, social progress and environmental protection. The fourth industrial revolution will be sustainable or not. [[Applause on several banks in the LaREM group.–M. Jimmy Pahunapplaudited]] Before leaving this microphone, I dedicate my intervention to all the employees of the UPM-Chapelle-Darblay stationery in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u24	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u25	For more than two months, our country has been at a standstill and is experiencing an unprecedented situation: economic activity has almost ceased and is now only recovering in part. We already know that France's gross domestic product is expected to fall by more than 8% in 2020: France will then face a recession of exceptional magnitude. In order to deal with this now economic health crisis, an ambitious recovery will be essential. This is the path taken by all major world economies. Unfortunately, due to the lack of efforts in the area of public finances in recent years, while the European economy was fully growing, France must now draw up a recovery plan with a public debt already exceeding 100% of its GDP. A courageous plan to reduce public spending, such as the one undertaken ten years ago by the right, would have enabled the state to build up the means for its economic recovery. Debt should not be a facility when the economy goes well, but a necessity when activity is threatened. This is the case today; It is therefore up to us to act. In the face of the economic crisis, a revival is needed and the State will have to assume its strategic role. The expenditure will have to be effective. Any crisis in it carries opportunities for rupture and it has highlighted in particular our need to produce more in France and in Europe in order to reduce our dependence on foreign economies when they are strategic sectors. The shortage of protective masks – although some say – and the tension in the supply of medicines are certainly the most visible flaws. Europe's competition rules must no longer drain the European industrial fabric for the benefit of foreign actors who do not fall under the same constraints as us. We must, without further delay, introduce a competitive barrier at the borders of the European Union with an ecological import tax. If the desire to find areas of industrial sovereignty has emerged forcefully on all the benches of this House, including even those of the majority, it is not enough to proclaim it to make it a reality. The directions of the minister and then President Macron have, in recent years, directly contributed to the deindustrialization of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u26	The opposite is true: we have created industrial jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u27	In particular, remember the sale of Alstom's energy branch to General Electric – GE – followed by the elimination of 1000 jobs at the Belfort plant – I have a thought for my colleague Ian Boucard, Member of Parliament for this territory – or the takeover of Alcatel by Nokia and the elimination of hundreds of jobs in France two years later. What about the four factories that Renault intends to close today? France's industrial competitiveness is not based on fine rhetoric but on concrete foundations. Any desire to relaunch based on the ambition to relocate industrial production requires the recognition of a principle: energy is at the heart of production. There can therefore be no French industrial ambition without reliable and high-quality energy. But our power grid is already energized. Enhanced industrialization in the country will mechanically lead to an increase in electricity consumption. Any industrial ambition involves developing new and clean production capacities. For this, we must break with the incoherent energy policy initiated by François Hollande and pursued by Emmanuel Macron. France can no longer afford the luxury of sacrificing on the altar of ecological ideology the efficiency and cleanliness of its nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u28	Oh, yes, it's clean!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u29	How can we understand, yesterday and even more today, that in a country in crisis and very heavily indebted like ours, the State closes the Fessenheim nuclear power plant, which functions perfectly and produces properly, each year, 90% of Alsace's annual electricity consumption? How can we understand that the State pays €400 million in compensation to Électricité de France – EDF – and probably much more in view of the risky mechanism of subsequent payment, denounced by the Court of Auditors, to close an industrial tool to which more than 2000 jobs are linked in this region? How can we claim to defend the Paris Climate Agreement when we close a low-carbon-emitting energy source while extending the operation of the Cordemais coal-fired power plant until 2024 or even 2026? How can we justify spending between €70 billion and €90 billion in public money on wind energy, an intermittent energy that is neither up to the climate challenge nor able to support serious reindustrialization? To be credible, these deep inconsistencies will have to be removed. Indeed, industrial recovery can only be based on our ability to design an efficient energy policy, guided by a triple objective: clean, reliable and competitive energy for French companies. And this is all the more so if our industrial ambition involves a sovereign, national digital sector that will require high electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u30	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to have you here for the first time since the start of the health crisis, and I thank Mr Balanant for having scheduled a debate on a crucial topic since it is a matter of reconciling the industrial independence of France, the preservation of the environment and solidarity. The third industrial revolution, from which our current model emerged, was a revolution in digital tools aimed at increasing labour productivity. In the twenty-first century, in the context of an environmental and social crisis, the acceleration of the fourth industrial revolution must be aimed at improving resource productivity. Many of you have pointed out that natural resources and biodiversity are neither eternal nor infinitely extensible. That is why we need to increase productivity in our consumption of natural resources and, as Andrew McAfee, one of the thinkers of the fourth industrial revolution, decouple wealth creation and the consumption of natural resources. In this sense, the health crisis that we have just experienced has highlighted what we no longer wish: first of all, an addiction to the disposable whole, even though our production capacities are not infinite and the materials already present in our territories could be recovered and become an asset for them; Secondly, a lack of sovereignty in some key sectors of our economy, for which we sometimes depend 100% on imports; Finally, an economic system that is difficult to take into account in its indicators values that are increasingly important to a large part of the population – I am thinking of the health or quality of the environment, water, air or biodiversity. The crisis has also revealed that what seems impossible to us today can become obvious. Thinking the unthinkable is what the President of the Republic has invited us to do. We can draw two conclusions from the health crisis. The first is that it must be an opportunity to reshape a more virtuous economic and industrial model, in the service of human beings, capable of giving meaning to the French. It seems obvious, but the whole issue is of course how to put this new model in place, and I will come back to it. The second conclusion is that we need a new industrial revolution. We must therefore accelerate the deployment of the fourth industrial revolution, in order to reconcile three strong aspirations of the French: sovereignty, solidarity and respect for the environment – all at the same time, without bad word play... To do this, the circular economy offers a method: we must move from "what" to "how", that is to say, the practical implementation of a new model and its declination in the territories. What's this about? A system based on better management of natural resources to limit waste and to ensure that industrial processes are more efficient but also more competitive. It is also a more virtuous production system, with products made to last and manufactured from materials that can be recovered. Matter must become an asset of companies. Finally, it is a production system anchored in the territories. Solidarity must be at the heart of economic recovery and the fourth industrial revolution. The latter is primarily based on tools that are supposed to meet a political objective. I am thinking of new technologies, innovation, new ways of collaboration, everything I call "extreme forms of collaboration", between actors – non-governmental organisations, companies, state, associations, etc. – and between disciplines – digital and biology, for example. These various collaborations are accelerated by the fourth industrial revolution, which allows the emergence of an intelligent, responsive and adaptable system, especially when a crisis as unpredictable as the one we have just experienced comes to our societies. As for the benefits of this new industrial model, it is the strengthening of our strategic independence in key sectors, to protect the French and reduce our dependence on imports, but also the preservation of the environment, resources and biodiversity – you stressed the importance of nature, Mr Balanant – and the strengthening of solidarity, with the creation of sustainable jobs. We are not starting from scratch: France can rely on a solid foundation not only in terms of new technologies, but also in terms of circular economy. This could be a response to the economic crisis by creating wealth in all territories and protecting our sovereignty. Waste is by nature a locally produced resource. The collection, sorting and recycling of waste therefore represent opportunities to create jobs in our territories. The circular economy is therefore also a response to the social crisis because it creates meaningful jobs in each territory. I would point out that one ton of recycled waste creates ten times more jobs than one ton buried. Finally, the circular economy provides a response to the ecological crisis, since inherently respectful of the planet's resources. The target of 100% recycled plastics by 2025 saves the equivalent of carbon dioxide emissions from four coal-fired plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u32	It doesn't allow you to leave them open!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u33	What size are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u34	We currently have four coal-fired plants in France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u35	Do you intend to prolong its existence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u36	... four power stations that we are closing, as you well know, Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u37	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The circular economy has a solid foundation, I said, with already 800,000 jobs created. France has been a pioneer in the development of the extended producer-responsibility sectors, which will continue to foster tomorrow's emergence of this new economy that we have the means and the duty to build.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u40	The crisis that we are going through requires us to respond in a differentiated manner. First of all, there was the imperative of urgency. In the face of an unprecedented health and economic crisis, we have had to react quickly to ensure that it is not followed by a major social crisis. We have therefore drawn up an immediate plan of EUR 110 billion and are currently drawing up sectoral plans with the various sectors concerned. In this regard, in response to questions raised on some banks, it is clear that these plans will have social and ecological counterpart. I would add that these counterparts show that we are not in denial of the world in which we live. Besides the urgency, there is also the strategic time, that of the long-term response, which requires us to draw the consequences of the crisis of the covid-19 and the upheavals that it brings about for the day after, according to the consecrated expression, and perhaps especially for the decades after. The crisis of the covid-19 showed the need for a new industrial and technological revolution. The epidemic has changed our ways of consuming, working and even living. In a few days, we had to rely on our only digital infrastructure to operate most of the country. And we have achieved this, and we will have to learn the lessons for the future. This is because we have made significant investments in digital infrastructure. However, this full-scale test has revealed many inequalities in access to these infrastructures. The crisis has also demonstrated the usefulness of new technologies such as 3D printers, which have played an important role in the manufacture of masks, visors or other medical devices, or artificial intelligence, which has made it possible to better model the evolution of the epidemic and anticipate health needs. Nevertheless, the last two months have revealed the structural weaknesses of our industry and our dependence on innovative processes or ordinary products, without much added value, which have sorely missed us the time to organize ourselves. The question of our ability to take charge of our destiny must therefore be asked. We must act in common with our European partners. France must remain an economic power that produces and innovates. It is not just about ensuring the country's economic prosperity, it is about guaranteeing its technological and industrial sovereignty. The conclusion is therefore clear: it is essential that France be at the forefront of the fourth industrial revolution. Even before the crisis, the Government had seized these problems with arms. Since the issue was raised, I recall that, for three years, we have created industrial jobs, which had not happened between 2000 and 2016. There have been more open sites than closed ones. It is not we who say it, but the statistics compiled by third parties, experts...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u41	What's weird in your sentence is the use of "we." "You" have created industrial jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u42	I'm going on. We have become the first destination of foreign direct investment in industrial projects: in 2018, we welcomed more than 330 of these projects, compared to 150 for Germany, yet a great industrial nation whose power we envied. These are facts, which show that we did not wait for the crisis to launch this industrial revolution; the epidemic of covid-19 has only strengthened us in the idea of accelerating it. This was also the heart of the productive pact that we were to present in April, where the ecological and energy transition, good food, good health and digital transformation of the economy were prominent. The challenge is not only to relaunch our productive tool, but also to prepare it for the next ten years so as not to be downgraded. Indeed, China accelerates its investment in innovation, builds up value chains and aims to acquire world-class market shares, not just second-class manufacturing. The United States has favoured business over social management, opting for rapid unemployment, but which will give agility to businesses. So we, too, must find our right balance and pull our pin out of the game. We will achieve this by following four principles. The first is sovereignty. We need to make France and Europe places of production, to relocate production to our territory. This is the ambition that I was already defending under the Industry Territories programme. It assumes that we become attractive, competitive – the question of cost comes into play – and that we simplify certain regulations. But let us be realistic: some activities are not intended to be relocated to France. That is why, together with our European partners, we will identify, within the value chains, critical sectors, the most strategic and innovative sectors. This is what we have begun to do in the context of the European Electric Battery Project, which continues to develop rapidly: it allows the relocation of plants currently located in China or South Korea to produce new generation technologies. The second principle is innovation. If it does not develop in France and Europe, it is entire parts of our economy that will be ousted and so many opportunities for business creation will escape us. 5G, artificial intelligence, robotics, high-density energy storage, hydrogen, quantum computing: these are the structural innovations designed to irrigate all sectors and on which the economies and societies of tomorrow will rely. We must also defend our human capital and invest heavily in it, because innovation is also a human adventure and a matter of skills. To this end, European cooperation must replay fully: the European Recovery Fund must be the instrument of the fourth technological revolution. The third principle is the ecological and energy transition, in particular decarbonisation. To believe that it could be abandoned because energy prices are low for economic reasons would be irresponsible short-termism. Because the health crisis could succeed an ecological crisis of which we do not know the forms, but whose effects on our economies could be of the same order. Ecological transition is also a matter of competitive advantage. That is how we will stand out on the world stage. We are ahead of innovation: some of our major groups have filed patents and developed technologies in the field of circular economy and ecological and energy transition. It is time to reap the benefits, by continuing to invest and by positioning new offers that can be welcomed, in the coming years, by a large number of customers. The fourth and final principle is European cooperation. We will only be able to take the required turn if we act together. Indeed, it would be counterproductive for us, working on our side, to take measures that could cancel each other or compete with each other. Moreover, alone, we will not be able to do the job in the face of China or the United States. That is what the President of the Republic recalled on Monday, alongside the German Chancellor; This is what I am trying to draw the consequences with Thierry Breton and my European counterparts, whom I consulted frequently last week again in the framework of the Competitiveness Council. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] France and Europe have always been rich in innovative and entrepreneurial people. The mobilization of the last few weeks has shown that this is still the case. The factory of the future and future ecological revolutions are not a matter of opportunity for our country, but of necessity. We are living a historic moment, and we must be at this meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u43	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, as well as that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to see you both on the bench of the Government because, through you, ecology and the economy are side by side. But sometimes it is small progress that, put to an end, make the greatest revolutions. One could speak of society "from close to close", to paraphrase Bruno Latour. So I will not invoke break-up innovation, nor miracle innovation, but innovation on the ground, on the territory – I have noted Mrs Poirson's insistence on the territories. This debate provides me with the opportunity to highlight what is known as industrial and territorial ecology – EIT – which deserves to be firmly supported for a truly ecological industrial revival to be possible. To say briefly – perhaps too – this is the application of the circular economy principle to the industrial fabric: reuse, recycle, reduce. In concrete terms, companies in the same territory are connected and encouraged to pool their resources – energy or materials. The synergies produced thus reduce waste – because the waste of one becomes a resource for the other –, promote productivity gains and are a factor in the attractiveness of the territories. Such approaches are already flourishing all over France; they are the work of motivated communities, such as the town planning agency of Dunkirk or, in the Morbihan, the community of communes Blavet Bellevue Océan and Lorient agglomeration. But in order to realize their full potential, they need to be further supported, because they are still too dispersed. However, an important step has been taken at the initiative of the MODEM Group in the consideration of the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy, in which I have had the honour and the pleasure of participating with you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. If this text has allowed major advances against society at all plastic – and let us preserve them! – I do not forget its measures in favour of the consumer or to support the actors of the social and solidarity economy. Thus, in Article 109, a provision aims to generalise the EIT by entrusting the regions with the task of coordinating actions in this field at the territorial level. How can we work together?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u45	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u46	I naturally remember very well our joint, long but fruitful work to co-build the circular economy as close as possible to the territories, especially the regions – whose industrial and territorial ecology is now an official competence, as you said. The President of the Republic has stated this on several occasions: the reconquest of our industrial autonomy must be at the heart of French and European recovery plans. On the basis of local elected representatives, we will therefore continue and step up our efforts to promote industrial and territorial ecology. The crisis that we are going through has highlighted the need to strengthen our strategic independence in key sectors, to protect the French, as well as businesses, from external shocks and to reduce our dependence on imports. In this context, industrial and territorial ecology is a lever to enable us to regain this strategic autonomy and to activate a new industrial revolution, but also to create local, non-relocable jobs of several types. As in one natural ecosystem, co-products and other materials generated by one activity can become useful resources for another. Companies thus limit the extraction of new materials, transport or waste disposal. These synergies between the activities of the same territory are a source of attractiveness for the latter and of competitiveness for our companies. As you said, the regional scale is the most suitable for coordinating circular economy projects for the territories. You fought a lot to make him recognize; Let me thank you again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u47	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u48	As many of our colleagues have pointed out, one of the fundamental debates about the scale of change we are talking about is network and data security, which will be heavily used. While the question of the exploitation of our personal data is no longer to be asked, will we be able, in the context of this industrial revolution, to become aware of the importance of these resources and to protect them from unreserved exploitation? Since their private nature is already clearly under way, it is essential to have the technical, legislative and educational means of this necessary awareness. Moreover, the centrality of the data will force us to acquire immense protection capabilities in a rapidly evolving world where reliance on digital tools could prove to be a real threat. The question of our sovereignty also arises: in the face of companies with astronomical amounts of data on each of us, the imposition of this new organization, based even more on the same material, should prompt us to question the power we offer them. We know the ability of these private actors to attract brains. Too often, our legislation only reacts to already common practices; Too often, the limitations we try to bring to them are anticipated and ready to be bypassed. For several years, we have seen the power of these companies, which can compete with, or even surpass, the power of states in certain areas. The fact that almost all are not Europeans also poses a real sovereignty problem. We mentioned this during the debate on the deployment of 5G: the links between certain states and the countries in which these companies were born expose us to risks. We have already seen this: in the event of a crisis, the independence of large companies vis-à-vis the powers is quite relative. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Even with massive financial resources, how can our country secure its sovereignty when it is even more connected and dependent on private technology?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u49	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u50	Your question, honourable Member, is at the heart of our independence and sovereignty. I will place it at the European level because I believe it would be presumptuous to imagine us capable of building this sovereignty on the scale of France alone. But you are right: the last eight weeks have shown that when it comes to finding the tool that will allow us to communicate remotely, via video conferencing or other means, we have often wondered whether this tool is not too American or Chinese and whether it does not have security loopholes. We asked ourselves regularly enough to agree that the European ecosystem would benefit from much more development. With regard to access to and sharing of data, you know that the European Union, in the same spirit as the legislation in force in South Korea, has adopted the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation. On the other hand, this regulation has been able to hinder the development of certain European ecosystems because of its complexity, thereby favouring the large companies that you mentioned and which, if I may say, simply have to plug in their catch. It will therefore be necessary to modify the regulations with the utmost vigilance, while maintaining the principle that everyone must own his or her data and have the opportunity to check and uncheck the data he or she wishes to share, and to specify with whom and for what purpose. Secondly, through the preparations for the deployment of 5G, the Government has taken steps, thanks to the parliamentarians who voted for them, to protect and control our digital infrastructure much more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u51	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u52	My question concerns the reconciliation between digital and the environment. If we all campaign for the preservation of the environment, we are all followers of various digital tools – when we are not addicts. I'm thinking about smartphones, with which we send hundreds of emails, text messages, sometimes photos on different emails every day. However, we do not realize that an email, as soon as it contains a small attachment – a photo for example – consumes on average as much as a light bulb for an hour. Sending all e-mails is the equivalent of 420 million tonnes of carbon each year, half of what the global aviation sector consumes. This huge energy consumption corresponds to the electricity needed to transfer emails between servers, to store them in the clouds, to power the air conditioning of servers... So how, on the occasion of the fourth industrial revolution that we want to launch, can we reconcile the development of digital technology with the moderation of energy consumption?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u53	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u54	Your question is crucial since the fourth industrial revolution we are calling for involves the preservation of natural resources and the limitation of CO2 emissions.. The climate impact of the digital transition is cold on the back: according to an ADEME study, the Environment and Energy Management Agency, the environmental footprint of digital technology represents almost 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions – it still accounted for only 2.5% in 2013 – distributed among data centers – 25% alone – infrastructure – 28% – and terminals – 47%. In addition, 150,000 kilometres is the average distance travelled by data. So we can see that we are facing a potentially huge problem. There is an absolute decoupling between digital development and preservation of the environment and natural resources. This is due to the phase of investment linked to the digital transition and partly to over-consumption, particularly in developed countries. While the energy intensity of global GDP is decreasing by 1.8 per cent per year, the energy intensity of the digital sector is increasing by 4 per cent per year. I stress that, with regard to reducing the climate impact of the digital transition, the curves do not intersect... The role of the circular economy in limiting the environmental impact of digital technology is therefore essential. However, the production of digital terminals is largely responsible for this phenomenon and, moreover, contributes very little to the employment in France, since they are composed of more than 90% of manufactured content manufactured outside France. On the contrary...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u55	Madam Secretary of State, your time has expired. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u56	How can we prepare for the revival of a sector when it faces many uncertainties about its future and evolves in a competitive environment where geopolitical, economic and environmental issues are intertwined? This is the dilemma facing aeronautics companies in France. At the standstill since mid-March, they find it difficult to see better prospects for the months or even for the years to come; rumours of social plans are spreading throughout the value chain, raising serious concerns, particularly in the Occitanie region where aeronautics is a driving force for the economy and employment. A sectoral support plan is promised before 1 July, but it raises many questions. Will subcontractors of rank 2 and rank 3, particularly vulnerable, have access to it? What is planned for Airbus's digital industry, threatened by the shutdown of all non-vital projects? Are specific measures for the maintenance of the workforce within companies in the sector foreseen – known for their know-how, they are particularly exposed to the risk of capture by foreign competitors? Furthermore, is this national plan the subject of a consultation with the regions and with the GIFAS – the grouping of the French aeronautics and space industries – who are working together on an ADER plan – action for the development of regional subcontracting companies – exceptional? And to what extent will the Franco-German agreement on a temporary European recovery fund of EUR 500 billion help the sector, notably Airbus? The current crisis also requires a longer-term view: the next industrial revolution will necessarily require more research and development efforts, particularly to meet environmental challenges. Industry in the aviation sector has been investing for some time in green aircraft projects: prototypes of electric aircraft, research on composite materials, biofuels and hydrogen. But how can we ensure that the crisis will not permanently undermine R&amp;D investment capabilities? What avenues are envisaged in this respect to strengthen innovation? Is there a tax component?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u59	You are asking many essential questions that bear witness to a sophisticated knowledge of the aeronautics sector – your fine knowledge of Occitanie is probably no stranger to it. France is indeed in a somewhat special position since it is still the only country, with the United States, to be able to build an aircraft from A to Z – China is trying to increase its skills in this area and is expected to do so in the coming years. The aeronautical sector represents 300,000 jobs in France, 1200 companies, including exceptional companies and not just the largest. The support plan we are working on will be presented in the first half of June. It aims to accompany the sector, after we have taken the necessary emergency measures to restore its visibility, whether it is State-guaranteed loans, the aid, if not indirect, of Air France, the postponement of tax and social contributions, and, above all, partial unemployment, which protects the sector's specific competences. We thus have very regular meetings with the actors concerned to define this plan. I myself have been in contact with the President of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, Alain Rousset, to maintain this necessary dialogue with the regions, some of which are particularly exposed. I also know that we will be able to count on your assistance. The details of the plan still need to be refined, but three objectives are very clear: to accelerate the ecological and energy transition, i.e. to continue investments in innovation in the various areas you have mentioned – biofuels, lighter materials, etc. ; pay particular attention to the relationship between subcontractors and contractors, and the plan will be open to them; Finally, to deploy massively the new technologies to improve the competitiveness of the sector, to strengthen the site France in relation to the site Monde.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u60	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u61	Emmanuel Macron, two days ago, wrote on Twitter that "the ecological transformation of our country must not be called into question by the crisis. It must be accelerated." I therefore have a number of very concrete questions. Are you finally going to intervene with Société Générale, BNP-Paribas, Crédit Agricole and BPCE – Banque populaire and Caisse d'saving – who have invested 198 billion euros in fossil fuels since 2016? Are you finally going to go back to the free trade treaties that are closing the scope of our possibilities and are ecological and social disasters? Or are you going, like the European Commissioner for Trade, to tell us that Covid-19 invites us, on the contrary, to sign even more free trade agreements and treaties? Will you put an end to the work of the Grand Paris Express, certainly not a social and ecological priority and, likewise, stop the extension of Roissy following the forecast of a 40% increase in traffic? The French Association of Private Enterprises is currently lobbying in Brussels to request the postponement of any new environmental and climate regulation... [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] After all this, you will understand my questions. I would like to make sure that what we can hope to see after the crisis is an aurora, not a twilight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u63	If you will allow me, Madam President, we will share the answer, Mrs Poirson and myself. For my part, I will refer to the economic aspects of your very broad questions, which, in my opinion, call for a principal answer: all the accompanying arrangements for companies provide for counterparties, for example, environmental ones concerning loans guaranteed by the State – and they are not included in the annex but in the contract itself, which gives them full contractual scope. Similarly, our ministry, hand in hand with that of the ecological and solidarity transition, draws carbon trajectories, sector by sector, declines into projects and innovations for four of them. It was also at the heart of the productive pact. These are therefore specific actions, industrial sector by industrial sector, I insist, and in connection with insurance, investors and banks, since the Ministry of Economy and Finance has also taken steps to promote responsible finance. I let my colleague complete this last point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u64	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u65	France has been a pioneer, Madam Member, in terms of transparency regarding exposure to environmental risks, which makes it possible to reorient financial flows. We are fully aware of the need to continue efforts to divert investors from projects that still rely on fossil fuels. We are doing this both at European and international level because, in a context of limited public resources, a leverage effect with private funds is needed to finance the ecological transition massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u66	It's amazing, I've asked many specific questions and I don't get any answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u67	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u68	We are facing mutations that we must not undergo. Technology must be put at the service of humans and the planet. But the risk is great that all this will be overshadowed by profitability appetites renewed by the current situation. Better respect for work, better respect for the environment: that is what must be at the heart of the transformations. You have announced, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, that the State will participate in the Renault Group, but it must be used to influence its strategy and not to accompany a social breakdown plan. And this strategy must also include local control, and that is why I am coming uphill: the steel industry. I just came out of a round table with the employees and the management of Arcelor-Mittal, as well as a number of local elected officials. There is a strong mobilisation of all the players to retain the steel tool in Fos-sur-Mer, to keep the installations in working order, including beyond what was originally planned, but also to maintain the subcontracting fabric. It is also a question of looking to the future, of carrying out the necessary transformations to combat polluting and carbon dioxide emissions, changes already on the agenda and largely expected by the population and employees of the company. This state of mind calls for state support for this transformation project. Why, moreover, not provide for a fund dedicated to investments for the ecological transition of the industry? This would merit open discussion, not just in departments. What initiatives is the Government planning to do so? These aids must not feed shareholders into dividends, but must also be conditioned and give the public power the opportunity to have a better grip on the course of things. What, finally, is the partial activity, which must no doubt be adjusted and include commitments to maintain wages on the part of companies, which is not the case today in the one I have just mentioned? Other security tools should also be invented during this transition phase. What principles will guide the State's action in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u70	Thank you for mentioning this round table, which was organized at our initiative,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u72	- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no no no no no no no no no
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u73	At my request!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u74	...with the state, elected officials and the region. I understand that it has taken place perfectly and that an appointment is made in a month to continue the discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u75	Thank you for responding to my request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u76	It is true that, even if you are not the only one, you are one of the defenders of ArcelorMittal's maintenance in Fos-sur-Mer. Beyond the particular situation of this site, what we want, you will understand, is to conduct a dialogue with trade union organisations, companies and elected representatives. This is the approach we take in this particular case, but also in all the cases on which we are involved. We are also working in connection with Europe, because, in the particular case of steel, decisions must be taken to revise the whole framework for the defence of the European market. Because we cannot consider that the situation of overcapacity that we experienced two years ago persists today, we absolutely must review the quotas that were then established. We will defend this idea, which I had already formulated at the Competitiveness Council of the European Union last week, and we will work to ensure that this issue is reopened, with the support, I hope, of other European countries. The industrial object must also be preserved. This is what we do by accompanying companies as closely as possible, to ensure that the industrial object is not broken by too brutal stops and incorrect restarts. Finally, partial unemployment will be the subject of today's meeting with the President of the Republic in order to define how partial unemployment can accompany the gradual resumption of activity, while at the same time caring for and protecting skills and human capital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u77	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u78	Three industrial revolutions and more than two centuries of progress have given us the power to transform nature. Yet, our model has never seemed so vulnerable. The health emergency and its economic impacts have been added to the climate and environmental emergency, each bearing its own lot of intimate dramas and collective hardships. The crisis that we are experiencing has changed our habits, but also our values. Many of us are now convinced of the urgent need for a transition, and to leave the past period more voluntary and determined than ever before. The necessary change of society and model could be based on four pillars, which the Republic on the move defends through a four-fold strategy: sobriety, sovereignty, solidarity and sustainability. Sobriety first: after what we have just experienced, in this return to the essentials and in the face of the anxiety caused by the lack, the needs of safety and quality have made overconsumption every day more futile, just as the planned obsolescence has become unbearable. The fourth industrial revolution could therefore be that of a chosen sobriety, guided both by our basic needs and by the limit of planetary resources. It is also essential to rethink our sovereignty at the French and European levels. We cannot depend on the outside for our supplies of vital products and essential resources. The transition that we want must also be that of all: the third pillar, which we believe is essential, is that of solidarity, which carries social justice but also collective mobilizations, which are indispensable to protect the most fragile, who are always the first victims of the crises. Finally, the sustainability of this new model requires changing our production patterns according to new criteria: quality, durability and material and energy efficiency. To achieve this, innovation and technical progress will be necessary, but not sufficient. These industrial revolutions do not have to be random, scientific or invisible: they are primarily the result of political and economic decisions. The Government has already initiated a change of perspective through the Mobility Guidance Act, the Energy and Climate Act, and the Waste Control and Circular Economy Act. How can we envisage this development in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u79	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u80	You are referring to the four fundamental pillars which, in my view, will have to occupy a central place in the revival of our economy. The crisis that we are going through reinforces our conviction that ecological transition is an indispensable condition for the resilience of our economy. France and Germany made strong proposals last Monday to increase the resilience and economic and industrial sovereignty of our countries and the European Union. Creating an ambitious EU-wide recovery fund, with €500 billion, will strengthen the resilience, convergence and competitiveness of European economies, and increase investments, particularly in green and digital transitions, which must go hand in hand. At the French level, the recovery plan will place these ambitions at its centre. The President of the Republic has thus recalled that the ecological transformation of our economy must not be called into question by the crisis, but rather must be accelerated. The transformation of our economy is therefore crucial if it is to satisfy the four pillars you are talking about. The development of the circular economy will contribute fully: it will promote sobriety, by reducing and recycling waste and by increasing the material productivity of our economy; sovereignty, through the valorisation of the materials we have in our territory, in order to reduce our dependence on imports, in particular with regard to the metals necessary for the ecological and digital transition; solidarity, because the circular economy leads to the creation of many local and non-local jobs, and relies on industrial synergies as well as on the social and solidarity economy sector; and sustainability, because the circular economy allows the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and the preservation of biodiversity. So be assured, honourable Member, that we take these four pillars into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u81	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u82	To think of tomorrow's world is to draw the consequences of this unprecedented health crisis, to adapt our ways of living and to put technological progress at the service of individuals. As such, digital is an opportunity, provided it is within everyone's reach. In my view, France's success in the digital industrial revolution depends on how it will respond to three issues. The first concerns lifelong learning capacity. Chair of the Study Group on Illiteracy and Illectronism, I am very sensitive to the issue of digital inclusion. While the cost of equipment or access to the Internet is a significant barrier for some, the lack of mastery of digital tools is a much more difficult obstacle to overcome. Pedagogical continuity has been able to highlight digital challenges for some teachers, parents or children. We therefore need to develop learning conditions for all, so that digital skills become a real lever of inclusion. The second issue is societal: the digital revolution must be of lasting benefit to all. Like other industrial revolutions, it has profoundly transformed the organization of work, the structure of our society and the social link, as well as access to information. How can we ensure that everyone can participate and benefit from it, in a resolutely sustainable way? Finally, the third issue is the technological sovereignty of France and Europe, particularly for the development of artificial intelligence. University excellence, as well as research and development, are key factors. We must activate these levers massively to become the new epicentre of this industrial revolution. How to put digital and artificial intelligence at the service of all and ensure that they benefit everyone in a sustainable way? Can we seize this opportunity and stand up to the digital revolution that is already underway?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u83	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u84	Thank you for focusing on the issue of digital access for all. Digital is not only a technological revolution; it is also a cultural and social issue. The last eight weeks have clearly shown this, both by the successes we have seen and by the difficulties of access or the ill-electronism that they have highlighted among the most precarious, at a time when we were relying on digital technology. As you know, the Government is implementing a policy of supporting the appropriation of digital technology and training, closer to citizens and their places of life. We must continue, and even strengthen, this policy. It aims to enable all French people to benefit from the opportunities offered by digital technology, by preparing them for the new skills it requires and the new jobs it creates, but also by giving them keys to be enlightened citizens, knowing in particular how to filter the information – sometimes false – that circulates. This is a dual societal challenge: responding to the urgent need to allow everyone access to digital public services and to avoid disruptions of access to the law, and to become a society in digital times. The health crisis has shown even more clearly the urgency of supporting all French people in digital appropriation, as well as the acute need for it. It highlighted the 13 million French people far from digital, who suffered a double penalty during confinement. It highlighted stalls and revealed greater-than-expected numerical difficulties, as a result of the need to use uncommon digital tools to access the many services and activities we offered during containment. For this reason, the Government has supported the establishment of the Digital Solidarity Resource and Assistance Centre. This call centre helped more than 12,000 people during the health crisis. In general, the resilience of medical, social, educational and professional activities has demonstrated our collective ability to meet this digital need. We will continue our initiatives in this direction. I am thinking in particular of the digital pass, intended for individuals and the accompaniment offered by France Num to companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u85	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u86	Digital has saved the world. The pursuit of economic activities, our democratic functioning and even our most intimate family ties has been supported by the digital infrastructure. In other words, without digital, there would have been no containment. However, not only has our business continuity plan been dependent on digital, but it has been dependent on a certain digital, widely thought out and designed outside our borders. This is where the battle is hurting: France and, more broadly, Europe are the digital vassals of great powers – I am talking here about both the countries that have created the ecosystem favourable to their domination, such as the United States or China, as well as companies whose capitalization far exceeds the GDP of most of the world's states. If, tomorrow, a large digital company decided not to operate in France or, worse, if a country, in the name of an economic war, were to cut off the cordon, it was all our dependent digital infrastructure that would collapse and place us in forced confinement. The recovery plan, which promises billions of avalanches for Europe, must be useful in building total sovereignty. In this total sovereignty, our digital sovereignty is fundamental. It is time to get out of the defeatism that we have shown in Europe after, according to the majority opinion, missing the check of the digital transition. There is no fatality. We must take advantage of the revival to build a framework conducive to our digital sovereignty, based on three pillars: investment in trusted digital infrastructures, so as not to be dependent on submarine cables and offshore data centres; an ambitious European and French law for the repatriation of our personal and interpersonal data to finally close the breach of the plundering of our information by foreign digital giants; and a harmonised and fair European framework for the taxation of digital giants, which would have the dual advantage of creating a recipe for the future European budget and forcing these companies to make a little of the immense value they create with our daily online life. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] As we have seen the health impotence of France and Europe, we have also seen their digital impotence. Is the Government prepared to defend this fundamental issue of industrial, legal and fiscal sovereignty in Europe?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u87	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u88	Of course, France is ready to defend digital sovereignty on a European scale. She has done so several times before. It has been at the initiative, as you know, of the taxation of digital giants – not for the pleasure of taxing, but with the desire to restore fair competition between the various players and to underline the difference in treatment enjoyed by these giants, who access our markets without paying the classic consideration due by any company. We have also spoken about competition law and the urgency to define new rules of the game to take note of the fact that the purchase of a small start-up by a large company is a way for it to kill competition, because, although the turnover of the start-up in question seems low, its valuation sometimes reveals a hidden strength or technological advantage that only a digital giant can afford. It may also, at times, be a way of killing competition by cutting that start-up to nothing. That's for the second element. The third issue we are positioned on is the Cloud Act, or Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act. We want to push European countries to co-develop with us ecosystems that offer digital infrastructure with security levels that allow us to escape a form of extraterritoriality. This applies, moreover, in our approach, to extraterritorial texts as well as to countries whose own companies have the right to submit data on demand – this is the case in another large country. As we can see, we have taken on several times our responsibilities and will continue to do so, in particular by relying on the CSF – Strategic Sector Committee – Digital, chaired by Marc Darmon, which also aims to develop powerful European solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u89	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u90	The revival of the French industrial tool is a priority for all political decision-makers, whether they are members of the Government, regional presidents or local elected officials. As a Member of Parliament for Pas-de-Calais, a territory historically linked to industry, I attach particular importance to the revival of our production tool, whose flexibility, but also the shortcomings, have been highlighted by the consequences of the health crisis that we are going through. A new industrial revolution leading us to the industry of the future, an industry based on better integration of digital innovation and based on environmental constraints, would have as its essential characteristic a need for human capital with a level of qualification that has never been so high on such a large scale. Unfortunately, in many territories which, like mine, have already had to undergo an intense industrial transition and where social plans follow one another in factories forging the soul of a city, like the lace of Calais, the level of qualification of unemployed people and those who arrive on the labour market is not enough to succeed in taking the turn this digital and ecological industrial revolution. Thus, according to INSEE, the rate of persons holding the baccalaureate in Hauts-de-France is 15% lower than that of the rest of metropolitan France is 35% lower than that of Île-de-France. We can only succeed in this transition to the industry of the future if all the territories, especially those with a strong industrial tradition, are irrigated by digital and ecological innovation. In order not to leave these territories on the roadside, we must speed up the training processes for those already present in the labour market, but also, and above all, for those who will join this market within a few years, so that this industry of the future does not concentrate solely on poles of excellence which are already in a situation of near full employment, excluding the territories which would most need these jobs. [[MM. Maxime Minot and Jimmy Pahun applaud]] What strategy does the Government intend to deploy to enable a massive increase in qualifications in these territories, so that they too can catch the wagon of this digital and ecological industrial revolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u91	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u92	Member of the European Parliament, I fully agree with your analysis, because I recently visited your land – in this case, it was on the Lens side – where I saw a volunteer project for the manufacture of superblouses for which a number of volunteers who had demonstrated themselves and had been identified for the qualities of cohesion and respect for the process reflected in their work had been recruited by the business leaders who led this process. Recruitment can also involve testing, valuing the experience gained and, ultimately, valuing human experience in the company. These are often missing elements in recruitment. This detour to say that, to answer your analysis, there are two ways. The first is to invest heavily in vocational training, as we do with the ICP, the Skills Investment Plan, as well as with the NEF, the National Employment Fund, by articulating this approach from the beginning of partial unemployment in order to allow companies to take the time to train their employees, including in digital skills, by removing the conditionality linked to face-to-face training. We want to deepen this approach, because we know that we need to train nearly 80000 digital profiles every year, if only to catch up with the need for skills in this area. The second way is to invest also in and value existing skills, and to invest in crafts and learning. These are the two ways in which this lack of skills can be filled or the skills of people whose professional experience is worth the diplomas they lack can be made visible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u93	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u94	The fourth revolution will not only be industrial, digital and ecological, but also, perhaps above all, logistical. This fourth point is absolutely crucial to propel France into the era of modernity. This modernity, of course, mechanically rhymes with the interconnectivity of technologies, but also with that of people, and therefore of our territories. Effective logistics is, of course, an asset that cannot be avoided in order to reduce export and import costs, as well as distribution costs in the internal market. It is also an effective way to engage more frankly in an ecological revolution, because, with 23% of the CO emissions allocated to transport, the problem cannot be ruled out. It is therefore more necessary than ever to hang up the cars by making the Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan high-speed line. We are lagging behind in this matter, and we cannot wait for work that should at best begin only in 2028. We have to act. This is vital for our territory, not only in ecological terms – as I have already said and I will not recall the number of trucks that cross the Spanish border every day – but also in terms of mobility, so that we can embark on the fourth industrial revolution which, at home, cannot be achieved without the appropriate means of transport to serve new clean and job-intensive production sites. Moreover, in the context of the recession we are experiencing, such an investment would be a strong signal, beneficial in the short, medium and long term not only to connect the south to the north of Europe, but also to allow the system Territories of Industry, to which I know you are sensitive, to develop fully, taking advantage of this opportunity to relocate companies essential to our digital, health and industrial sovereignty. That is one of the great lessons we must learn from this health crisis. Will the Government revise its copy and advance the work of the Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan high-speed line to support the economic recovery in Occitanie?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u95	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u96	The principle of the realization of the new line between Montpellier and Perpignan is not debated. It is certain that exceptional climatic hazards, such as last autumn's floods, are likely to be more frequent and thus increase its interest. As such, the State secured the entire route of this operation by renewing the declaration of a project of general interest in 2018. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law on mobility guidelines sets out a timetable for the implementation of the new Montpellier-Perpignan line, which is sustainable at both the operational and the budgetary levels, with a ten-year work commitment for the Montpellier-Béziers section and 20 years for the Béziers-Perpignan section. Following the final adoption of this law in December 2019, a meeting of the technical committee, bringing together all partners, took place very recently, on May 14. A political steering committee will be organised in the coming weeks to share the detailed schedule of the project with all the partners that co-finance this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u97	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u98	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u99	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u100	The next item is the debate on the shortage of medicines in France. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u101	If the theme chosen by the Socialist and related group for this week of control is not random, it is not entirely inspired by the health crisis either. Since 2017, Valérie Rabault has been calling the alert on this issue. On February 11, following the publication by the National Agency of Health and Medicine – ANSM – of a note on the difficulties in supplying BCG therapy for the treatment of bladder tumours, I myself asked Ms. Buzyn about our dependence on China. If the shortage of drugs is old, the increase in the number of supply disruptions accelerates rapidly. In 2018, approximately 400 medicines were out of stock; In 2019, there were 500. The shortage affects all therapeutic classes of drugs, whether they are essential, such as cancer drugs, antibiotics and vaccines, or generics, thus observing the search for alternatives to the treatments followed. The health crisis that we are experiencing, which is taking place in almost every country in the world, is further exacerbating the shortage. In the first few weeks of the crisis, stocks were under intense pressure. From the very beginning, the European Alliance of University Hospitals has warned about the risks of shortage of medicines used to treat patients with covid-19 – in resuscitation or intensive care – such as curare and hypnotics. The CHUs also echoed this. Even worse: stocks of drugs were missing not only for patients with covid -19, but for those suffering from other diseases – I was going to say "daily". As early as 6 February, ANSM reported tensions on Kaletra stocks, which is used in city medicine for patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus – HIV. We are told that this medicine is scheduled for normal disposal next June. Thus, our country's shortcomings in the production and distribution of medicines have affected not only patients with covid-19, but also many of our fellow citizens. The multiple causes of the phenomenon are well known: a very strong increase in demand caused by developing countries, poorly calibrated hospital tenders, too low prices for certain medicines falling into the public domain and, in recent months, demand exacerbated by the crisis. France has suffered particularly. As regards the production of medicines, we have for many years chosen to depend excessively and dangerously on countries outside the European continent. According to the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – between 60% and 80% of the active ingredients of the medicines we consume are produced outside the European Union. Laboratories have moved their production out of our country, and even out of Europe, where production costs are lower, and regulations are less stringent. Now we all agree that this cannot continue. It is inconceivable that the health of the French depends on India and China. We need to rethink our paradigms. The logic of profit cannot prevail over the health of our fellow citizens. We must quickly make a choice between the search for profitability and the health of the French. I hope that we will focus on the health of the population. During the health crisis, the Government took steps to rationalize and centralize the emergency response. Thus, the response to the shortage of medicines was only a crisis response, in the very short term. We cannot under any circumstances satisfy ourselves with this for the future. We must address the issue of the production of active substances, as well as that of proprietary medicinal products. There are more than 2,800 active ingredients and between 15,000 and 20,000 proprietary medicinal products. Priority will therefore need to be given to products that are threatened by shortages. Are we able to make such a precise photograph of the drug chain, in order to identify the frailties that could lead to tension? For each medicinal product, it is necessary to know at a minimum the number of laboratories holding the marketing authorisation, the number of suppliers of active ingredients, the number of production sites, the number of processing sites, the percentage of manufacturers outside the European Union, the history of shortages and the rate of growth of demand. Mr Secretary of State for Pensions and the Protection of the Health of Employees against the Covid Epidemic -19, my first question is simple: are we able to obtain this data and make the best use of it? In other words, does ANSM have the means to achieve our ambitions? Secondly, when I asked Mrs Buzyn last February, she replied that a reflection on European production and sovereignty was being undertaken at European level. Where are we? While it is clear that there is a need to relocate the production of certain active ingredients and medicines, it is also necessary to discourage companies from offshoring which, at the moment I am talking about, are still taking place – for example the Luxfer company, located in Puy-de-Dôme. More and more voices are rising to denounce these outright relocations, which endanger the lives of our fellow citizens. The issue is complex. Our thinking must be global. It is a health issue, but it is also an economic and environmental issue. We must keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u102	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u103	[[MM. Jérôme Lambert and Pierre Dharréville applaud]] I conclude, Madam President. The complexity of the problem must not prevent us from accelerating the search for solutions. Public opinion would not understand that certain medicines will be reserved tomorrow for the most affected patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u104	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u105	The health crisis caused by the covid-19 has placed under the spotlight the global distribution of production areas and its underlying dangers. The health and drug sector is not eluded by this finding. Thus, at the beginning of the year, concerns emerged as a result of China's decision to shut down its drug plants to limit the spread of the virus. Hubei Province, considered the epicentre of the epidemic, is home to forty-two Chinese and foreign drug plants, including one of the four global suppliers of paracetamol. On 31 March last, the Minister of Solidarity and Health acknowledged before this House the existence of tensions on the stocks of products used in anesthesia. But they are mostly made in China and India. In this context of a global pandemic, the supply chain in France has been severely disrupted. Thus, the health crisis has highlighted, even more prominently, the tensions in the supply of medicines observed in recent years. For the past ten years, supply disruptions have been increasing in our pharmacies. In our discussion of the latest Social Security Financing Bill, I had the opportunity to recall that the number of stock failures reported each year has increased by almost twenty from 44 to 871, from 2008 to 2018. The ANSM estimates that their number has increased further in 2019, with probably more than 1200 medicines missing or at risk of rupture, and there is concern that the situation will not improve in 2020. The worsening of the shortage is mainly due to two reasons. The first is the increase in global demand, driven in particular by the development of health systems in major countries such as India and China. The second is the massive relocation of the manufacture of active pharmaceutical substances, i.e. the raw materials of medicinal products. Almost 40% of medicines marketed in the European Union have been manufactured in a third country; 80% of the manufacturers of their active substances are located outside the European Union. India, China and the United States account for more than a third of world production. Thus, the production of medicines, previously well established in Europe – mainly in Switzerland and France – is moving increasingly towards Asia, where production costs are lower and standards are more flexible. Mr Secretary of State, you know my commitment, reaffirmed every year during the examination of the PLFSS, in the fight against the shortage of medicines, as well as in the defence of innovative medicines. The crisis that we are experiencing only reveals a phenomenon denounced in previous parliamentary debates, in which solutions were outlined. I would also like to refer to the work of my predecessor, Jean-Pierre Decool, now a senator, in his capacity as rapporteur for the fact-finding mission on drug and vaccine shortages. He urgently called for the establishment of a genuine industrial, national and European strategy, making proposals in support of his request. The Social Security Funding Act of December 24, 2019 is based, in its strategic aspect, on some of the ideas emanating from this Senate report. The new provisions – more current than ever – including the requirement for French laboratories to have a four-month stock of medicines available on European territory, will only enter into force on 30 June 2020. In any event, this strategy must be built with the actors in the sector. Moreover, the effectiveness of the crisis cells put in place by pharmaceutical companies to ensure – despite containment measures – the supply of hospitals during the health crisis deserves to be reported. On Monday, 18 May, the President of the Republic, at a joint press conference with the German Chancellor, called for a Europe of health, including common and coordinated purchasing capacities for treatments and vaccines. The health crisis to which we are all exposed strongly demonstrates the need for a European alliance for our health policies. I had the opportunity to reiterate my commitment to the idea of a common European strategy on the industrial policy of medicinal products. If Europe protects us from wars, it must also help protect our health. In order to combat supply disruption more effectively, I remain convinced that it is necessary to encourage the localisation in Europe of the production of raw materials and medicinal products of strategic health interest. Mr Secretary of State, do you not think we should create a list of medicinal products of strategic health interest to ensure their availability through the compulsory stocks? Can you clarify the progress of your reflections with a view to encouraging the localization in France of the production of raw materials and medicinal products of strategic interest? What perspectives can be given to the project of a label "Made in France" or "Made in Europe"? In doing so, I believe we would have a new ability to protect ourselves from supply disruptions due to failure or unavailability of certain production units, such as those we have just experienced. In the same vein, we would no longer be exposed to last-minute auctions, or to the consequences of the difficulties of air transport, revealed by the crisis. In the light of the experience we have just experienced, would it not be appropriate to secure the supply chain of the medicine throughout the national territory, from the metropolis to our overseas territories? We have seen this well in the last few weeks: health is mostly a matter of national sovereignty, and so is its remedies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u106	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u107	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u108	I thank our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group for putting this topic on our agenda. The question of health independence is more relevant than ever. That the covid-19 struck us violently reminds each and every one of us. Since last March, we have seen significant shortages of curare, hypnotics, corticosteroids and antibiotics, which have forced some facilitators to modify their protocols. Resuscitation medicine has been severely affected, with overconsumption of up to 2000 %. The unavailability of these drugs has become chronic for some pathologies, adding one chronicity to another. This results in health consequences. France's independence in defence and energy matters is often mentioned. Independence in health matters seems to me to be an absolute requirement. On this subject, a very good report was published by Senator Jean-Pierre Decool, who deplores "a waste of medical and logistical time" and recalls some truths. This report is only two years old, but I think it deserves a lot of rereading. The phenomenon has worsened in recent years. Paul Christophe recalled with extreme precision – surgical – the reasons for drug supply disruptions. Moreover, we have often dealt with this issue in this House. We can say the same about serology. Why don't the national reference centres – CNR – validate serological tests, as we want them to do? Because the machines used come from China. That's the brutality of things! Why are Abbott and Pasteur competing? Because the last French-controlled research laboratory, Sanofi, was purchased by the Americans. That's what we know! That is what we dare to say, because we are Parliament. Here, we must demonstrate a requirement of truth. We have an essential challenge to face. We can no longer be satisfied with the fact that the drugs we consume are produced in India, China and the United States, often at low cost. Eighty per cent of pharmaceutical substances used in the European Union are manufactured outside its borders. That figure, I believe, should bring each of us back to reason. Who never took paracetamol? It has not been produced in Europe for twelve years: total dependence! More than ever, a true strategy and industrial pilotage are needed. I come from a hearing conducted as part of the mission to inform on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the coronavirus-Covid-19 epidemic. We have discussed the need for reindustrialization. The President of the Republic and Mrs Merkel have indicated that we may be mobilizing EUR 500 billion. I hope that we will be able, at the level of Europe or France, to build a powerful drug industry, not only with a defensive but also offensive aim, as the bill has been heavy in recent years. Now we pay a financial bill, but also a human bill. For some of the treatments applicable to chronic diseases, I can confirm that we have been suffering from drug ruptures for a long time. An industrial strategy needs to be developed. The Government is not responsible for everything, so much so! Over the past ten years, gradually, in each PLFSS, the wings of these large laboratories have been trimmed, which ended up giving so much money that they no longer did research. As soon as these large laboratories grew by 7% or 10%, it was necessary to make sure that they had less. After a while, it was over: the research was going away and the profits were decreasing. Consequence: Total dependency! It is true that the PLFSS 2020 contains a provision – I remember for defending it – obliging laboratories to build up four-month stocks, but it will only enter into force in June 2020, in a month and a half! It's not working! On this point, the agreement is transparant, it seems to me: mistakes were made the day before yesterday, yesterday and today; Let's make sure we don't commit any tomorrow! This morning, we had the great pride to hear on a large radio that a Frenchman was probably going to pilot a new vaccination strategy. But this pride has a cost: we must have the political courage to defend this action at both the French and European levels. We owe it to all those who have died, to all those who struggle for life, and to all those who will struggle in the coming years. (Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Bertrand Bouyx also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u109	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u110	The report published today by France's committee of inquiry instigates on the crisis of the covid is a relentless analysis of the causes and management of the health, social and economic crisis that we are facing. These causes are systemic; They are the product of neoliberal ideology and the destructive policies that have applied it. The crisis we are experiencing is due in particular to the shortage organized by those who benefit from it. This shortage has affected all sectors essential to the maintenance of our lives, including health and drug production. According to Mr. Macron, his government and his majority, nothing could have been done upstream to avoid or at least mitigate the health shock; But the scientific study of events, increasingly provided, refutes these peremptory assertions, as well as the parliamentary archives that resonate with many interpellations and proposals that we and others have made since the beginning of the legislature to fight against the monopoly of large pharmaceutical laboratories and ensure our therapeutic sovereignty. The majority have systematically ignored them, even removing measures to prevent shortages. In 2018, a report from the Senate explained: "Largely underestimated in the public debate, however, the phenomenon of drug shortages is becoming increasingly prevalent and, in addition to major health consequences, entails significant financial risks as well as wastage of medical and logistical time at all levels of the drug chain. It thus contributes to the destabilization of our care system at the same time as it reflects a loss of health independence worrying for France as for Europe. » Even before the crisis, a quarter of French and French people had already faced a shortage of vaccines or medicines, including chemotherapy. France Assos Santé, who published these results, speaks of a "recurring and massive phenomenon", affecting even more those with chronic diseases. At the root of these problems is the patent system, on the one hand, and the financialization of the production of medicines, on the other. The patent regulations confer a monopoly on the commercial exploitation of a drug for 20 years on companies that have discovered it. This rule pushes to relocate production, in order to lower costs and maximize profits. Today, 40% of finished medicinal products marketed in the European Union come from third countries, and 80% of the manufacturers of active pharmaceutical substances used for medicines available in Europe are located outside the Union. In addition to this is the financialization of production. In an internal note from 2018, an analyst at Goldman Sachs wondered if curing patients was a sustainable economic model; and, on 13 May last, Sanofi's boss stated that the United States would be the first country to be served with vaccines, on the grounds that that country was the most financially contributing to risk-sharing. He was referring to a partnership with biotechnology companies such as Translate Bio: it is about guaranteeing shareholders not only the discovery of a vaccine, but also its rapid and large-scale production in offshore companies. Many proposals have been made to remove these industrial and financial barriers to access to medicines for as many as possible, without success so far. In the Senate, Jean-Pierre Decool's amendments to the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, which aimed to combat the shortage, were rejected, as were our own amendments here in the National Assembly. In particular, we objected to the cessation of an experiment which organised the communication by companies of the quantities of medicinal products exported; This experiment would have allowed better mapping of the reasons and breaking points in the supply. In the impact assessment, the abandonment of experimentation is justified by the risk of being in breach of "the rules of business law and free competition". The role of the lack of transparency of supply chains has since been pointed out in the shortage of medicines at the peak of the epidemic in France. Another of our amendments already proposed the creation of a public drug centre, so that the state organizes research and production: it was in 2019. Since then, the reality of the shortage has erupted in the open, both in the resuscitation services and in others – I am thinking in particular of those of palliative care. Large national and international associations, which we support, are also making proposals for comprehensive action, either through the use of open licensing mechanisms to ensure universal access to future treatments against covid-19, or in the longer term through the establishment of patent communities. There's no time to waste. Our bill to create a public drug centre, reported by Caroline Fiat, would ensure our therapeutic sovereignty and participate in international solidarity will be debated next week in committee, and the following week in session. By adopting it, you would serve the general interest. Mr Secretary of State, Members of the majority, will you go in that direction? Our lives, our health, are better than their profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u111	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u112	Health is not a commodity, it is a right; and medicine must be a common good. But it has become the object of a huge trade, and the market has little interest in guaranteeing rights. The period that we are living has raised awareness of this issue. It highlighted the flaws in public policies and the control of private powers over drug policy, and that situation called for resolute action. As evidence of this, I would like to hear from Sanofi's Director General's recent statement that his intention to favour the United States in the event of a discovery of a covid -19 vaccine is staggering. This scandalous approach speaks volumes about the state of a sector that is essential to public health and whose funding is largely covered by social contributions. Should we recall that this company has paid more than 4 billion dividends for 2019, while announcing the abolition of several hundred posts, particularly in research and development? The research tax credit is used to finance restructuring plans. For 2020, the estimated budget for research and development in this company is down 4% compared to 2019. The decision to abandon certain research axes or the outsourcing of activities not only results in the closure of sites, but sometimes also the destruction of the industrial tool. Of fifteen research centres twenty years ago, only four remain. Of the 20 or so research axes, there would remain only one actually worked in France, oncology and immuno-oncology; Of the 6300 French CDI for Sanofi in R&amp;D in 2008, it would be at best 3500 with the last plan announced in June. In one year, in the group's various activities, five social plans followed, resulting in the elimination of more than 1500 jobs. Research on new antibiotics to combat infectious diseases is being abandoned, while resistance to bacteria is becoming a serious threat to global health. Also abandoned are research on heart failure, Alzheimer's disease and soon Parkinson's disease, where therapeutic needs are very acute. Abandoned again, research on endocrine and metabolic pathologies. And I'm not even talking about the production itself, largely outsourced. That's the state of affairs. To this, it should be added that Sanofi decided to stop placing an order at Famar, a laboratory producing twelve drugs of major therapeutic interest, now threatened with liquidation. I also want to mention Luxfer and its production if necessary. We can always make great declarations of love for health, industry, relocation; But here, these are acts that we have been asking, with the employees, for months. The drug is a major public health issue: how can we treat and treat if we cannot count on the availability of the right molecules? How can we avoid social addiction to chemical treatments? How can we prevent the merchandising of care? How can we ensure research that is not conditioned by promises of profitability? How can price transparency and accuracy be ensured? How can we combat the private appropriation of collective discoveries? There are many questions. One must also mention the shortage of medicines – 1200 products were broken or in tension last year, compared with 800 the previous year – but also the privatization of discoveries by aggressive patenting policies. For a long time, the Communist deputies have been defending the idea of a public drug centre. Pieces of the puzzle were repeatedly placed on the table of the National Assembly; and we tabled a comprehensive bill some time ago for a public drug service, reorganizing the tools and creating a public production and research hub capable of effectively weighing the market and ensuring a better response to needs, in a way that is disconnected from the stakes of profit. We must not accept that human health has become one of the most lucrative fields for finance. The law of money ignores the general interest. The right to health cannot be subject to calculations, speculation; It cannot be subject to other considerations than that of human dignity. These political questions are therefore also ethical subjects, issues of civilization. We want to know, understand, make informed decisions about drugs: this is the best guarantee we can give ourselves to meet health needs. We want a new impetus for social security, including the provision of 100% care that a genuine public drug strategy could at least partially fund. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Let's send a signal: that's enough! Let's defend our right to health with a public drug service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u113	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u114	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u115	The crisis that has plagued our country for more than two months now has put a severe strain on our hospital system and our healthcare staff; It has also caused tensions in the supply of certain medicines. I want to pay a strong tribute here to the victims of this epidemic, to the families who have been tried and to all those who are fighting it. This was mentioned in this House last March: our country has been under pressure on certain products in hospitals, including anaesthetic products. On the one hand, the explosion in world consumption of certain medicines, which can reach more than 2000 % in certain resuscitation services, and, on the other hand, of course, the sharp slowdown in international transport. This global event has posed a real threat to our public health. In the face of the emergency, the Minister of Health, in close cooperation with our regional health agencies, at an early stage initiated a massive logistical response, through the command and management at state level of a number of essential products. Our majority had voted in the PLFSS for 2020 strong measures to strengthen the fight against shortages, including the obligation to build up four months of stock. These risks of shortages or tensions are not new, as several of my colleagues have pointed out. Over the past decade, our country has suffered increasingly frequent supply disruptions. It is a phenomenon that occurs elsewhere in Europe and in the world. In its activity report, ANSM identified 44 rupture cases managed by its services in 2008, 173 in 2012. The figures then jumped to 483 breaks in 2014. In addition, in August, some 20 doctors and hospital professors seized this issue by publishing a forum in the Sunday Journal, pointing to the responsibility of laboratories for inventory management. We know, however, that this issue is much more complex and that the solutions will be those of the long term. It is therefore necessary not only to point a finger, but to monitor, regulate, re-adjust and legislate where appropriate. In the area of control, the role of ANSM is paramount, since it has the function of, among other things, listing stock ruptures of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest. It is leading the fight against those in the sector who do not comply with the rules. Today, the time has come for public action: we must collectively – elected, members of the Government, the private sector – prepare for post-pandemicism by drawing lessons from this crisis. This problem of shortage is known for a long time: Olivier Véran, as soon as he took office in February, called for the re-creation of productive sectors in France and Europe, indicating that this was becoming urgent in the face of the rapid ruptures. This wish was relayed by President Emmanuel Macron, who called for a European or even national relocation to ensure the health independence of France and prepare for new crises. Indeed, following a wave of relocations in the 1990s, between 60 and 80 % of the active components of medicines are manufactured outside Europe, mainly in China and India. An effective response must therefore be national and European. A dynamic is already under way: European university hospitals have called for a different strategy, a strategy of international collaboration for the production and distribution of essential medicines throughout Europe. This is an ambitious objective, which calls for a paradigm shift: we are not talking about a production adjustment, but about a new European industrial policy, whose coordination would be finely organised. In this sense, the €500 billion recovery plan announced by Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron promises great prospects if, in fact, health issues are addressed. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is calling for an agreement by the 27 members to establish unprecedented health sovereignty. It will obviously have to respect the needs and economic realities of each State. Finally, in addition to the new supranational solidarity, it seems essential to me to think about this phenomenon in concert with the territorial actors. We need to consult and involve the regional health agencies, which have a major role, the laboratories, the departmental institutes that have so much mobilized during the crisis. Minister, I have no doubt that the Government will take full control of the matter. You can count on the full mobilization of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u116	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u117	A wide range of medicines cannot be found periodically. Almost all therapeutic classes are affected by the phenomenon. One in four French citizens had been confronted with a shortage of medicines and the same proportion had been refused the delivery of a vaccine or medicine because of a shortage. Some stock failures have a direct impact on the chances of recovery of patients. The Government argues that the phenomenon does not date from today. Between 2008 and 2018, reported stock ruptures were increased. In 2019, the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products noted the unavailability or supply strain of more than 1200 drugs, 60% more than in 2018. The problems already existed several years ago, but they were exceptional in nature. The Covid-19 epidemic highlighted the dangers of France's almost total dependence on Asia for the production of pharmaceutical ingredients, so-called active ingredients. This applies not only to comfort medicinal products, but also to medicinal products of major therapeutic interest, for which there is no sufficient therapeutic alternative, while interruption of treatment may lead to life-threatening patients. Breaks can last several weeks – cortisone derivatives and certain antibiotics are remembered. The Government's attempts to limit the observed deterioration are very inadequate. A steering committee, responsible for the strategy to prevent and combat drug shortages and chaired by Mr Biot, was set up last September to secure the chain of production and distribution of the medicine. But we are still waiting for concrete and dissuasive measures. Of course, in the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020, we have adopted the obligation for marketing authorisation holders and operators to build up a safety stock for the national market and located on French or Community territory, but this new obligation has not yet entered into force. Article 18 of the Framework Agreement between the pharmaceutical undertakings and the Economic Committee for Health Products – CEPS – on the inclusion of investments in the European Union in the prices of products, is still not being applied, although it is highly expected by industry. The epidemic has made the situation very alarming, as it has created extreme tensions. Among other things, we have experienced cascading ruptures of intensive care drugs, especially muscle relaxants, antibiotics and anesthetics. On 27 March, the management of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance – AP-HP – recommended rationalizing the use of anaesthetic products. On 30 March, the inter-hospital and inter-emergency collectives unsuccessfully seized the Council of State to request the necessary requisitions. On 1 April, nine European university hospital centres, including AP-HP, called their respective governments for better European collaboration. At the peak of the crisis, it was difficult to make intra- or interregional distributions of stocks as advocated by the Directorate-General for Health, since tensions were general. You yourself, Minister, spoke, in euphemism, of rationalizing the consumption of several health products. Public health France is forced to manage shortages rather than prevent them. It would therefore be appropriate to place before the Prime Minister a national body for anticipation of supply disruptions with the task of defining a national strategy to put an end to such disruptions. Finally, tensions concern not only supply but also production. For a French manufacturer to be able to live in France, it would be necessary to pay attention to prices – it was not successive social security financing bills that helped. Europe now imports 80% of the active ingredients used in medicines, mainly from China or India. Minister, I propose that you create a European leader dedicated to the production and marketing of active pharmaceutical ingredients – this project is in the cartons of the Sanofi company. It would be a real strategic choice to create a new autonomous entity, headquartered in France, which would become the world's number two market. The above-mentioned Steering Committee seems to be looking at this project in a favourable light.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u118	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u119	The debate proposed to us today by our Socialist colleagues is of particular importance. Indeed, it must allow us to address the central issue of French and European sovereignty over the supply and production of medicines. We all make the same observation: the problem is not recent – I spare you the figures that have already been mentioned. Unfortunately, the health crisis that we are going through will have revealed legitimate fears. In recent weeks, there have been several reports of risk of rupture in some stocks of French pharmacopoeia. Thus, the curares and hypnotics necessary for the intubation of patients in resuscitation, have been used so intensively that our hospitals have alerted about a possible shortage. Similar difficulties have been reported for raw materials and reagents used in the production of screening tests. We are well aware of the unprecedented situation of the emergence of an unknown and deadly virus worldwide for all health services, as well as for the drug industry. When all the countries of the world need the same products, at the same time and in large quantities – consumption has been multiplied up to 2000 times its usual volume – tensions on production chains and supply chains are inevitable. We would also like to welcome the mobilization of all those in the public and private spheres who have spared no effort to ensure that health facilities and laboratories are delivered. While we look forward to the Government's insights into the national drug production and import strategy, we would like to highlight the responsiveness of the national drug production and import strategy, assisted by the health authorities, when it comes to identifying, regulating and optimizing the management of products whose sources have dried up. Recall that the French production of medicines was divided by two between 2008 and 2017! Nevertheless, as we observe a decline in the epidemic in the Territory, it appears necessary for the Government to share with us its analysis of the particular context of the supply of medicines during the crisis, as well as its overall vision of national pharmaceutical production, as well as the prospects for its adjustment and improvement. As such, the MODEM and related groups have several questions to formulate. First of all, the Prime Minister announced the creation of a strategic national stock, designed to organize rigorous, regionalized management, according to the needs expressed by health institutions and liberal physicians. Minister, can you tell us how to create this state stock? What drugs are we talking about? The crisis has revealed or rather confirmed the extreme dependence of European countries on China for the production of the active ingredients of many medicines or tests. While private laboratories continue to produce in fine in France, the raw materials necessary for the manufacture of many generics seem to come from only one country whose prices defy all competition. Currently, only 30% of them are produced at home, and the rate drops to 17% for drugs used in hospital! Would it not be appropriate to guarantee a minimum number of production lines fully located in the national or even European territory? Does the Government intend to commit to the transfer or relocation of certain productions? If so, which ones? The relocation action involves a long-term effort as the pharmaceutical industry is subject to strict health rules and complex protocols. Does the Government therefore intend to draw up, in collaboration with the relevant health agencies, an action plan to reshape the national drug production grid, and at what time? Finally, the covid-19 pandemic, by definition without borders, has raised the same concerns in most European countries. We therefore believe that it is essential to address all issues at European Union level. The President of the Republic called for the construction of a Europe of health at the beginning of the week. Yesterday, the need for European health sovereignty was often mentioned. If we fully share this ambition, it can only be achieved if the entire health spectrum is taken into account. A Community approach to the production of medicines therefore has its full place! The MODEM Group reaffirms its confidence in the Government's ability to draw lessons from the extraordinary situation in order to consolidate the foundations of our health security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u120	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u121	If the Socialist and related group has chosen to put the issue of drug shortage on the agenda of the control week, it is because, since 2017, we are alerting you. In three years, we have received almost no answer. On December 13, 2017, the president of our group, Valérie Rabault, sent a first letter to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who was content with an acknowledgement of receipt. In April 2018, she again questioned the Government, without effect. In February 2019, in response to an oral question without debate, the Secretary of State to the Minister, Adrien Taquet, acknowledged the problem, without finding a solution. Faced with this silence, on 19 June 2019, Valérie Rabault interviewed the Prime Minister directly during questions to the Government. It was almost on the same date, in July 2019, that it was decided to reflect on a plan. Of course, the shortage is not recent, our country has been suffering for several years. That is why we regret your attention for three years on this major subject when all the indicators were red. In 2018, the ANSM identified 868 reports of stock failure and risk of rupture for drugs of major therapeutic interest, an increase of 62% over 2017. As ANSM points out, the unavailability of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest may pose a major public health problem. For the record, 44 reports had been reported in 2008. Thus, in ten years, the number of alerts has been multiplied by twenty. All territories are affected by stock disruptions or supply tensions. In total, one in four French citizens has already been confronted with a shortage, i.e. a difficulty or impossibility to supply to a pharmacy within 72 hours. If the phenomenon is not recent, the crisis of covid-19 has revealed to the public our fragility and that of Europe, by showing supply tensions on certain medicines essential for the care of patients in resuscitation, such as curares or midazolam. The awareness is there, we must now take action. On 19 September 2019, the Prime Minister entrusted Jacques Biot, former President of the Polytechnique School, with a mission to analyse the root causes of the situation, including industrial choices. The report was issued on 4 February. My first question is therefore simple: do you intend to publish the conclusions of this report? We want to believe that the crisis of the Covid-19 delayed publication, but we would not like to believe that if the report was not made public, it is because you will not agree with the conclusions. Our other questions are as follows: Do you commit to publish a precise map of the drugs that are in short supply and those that are at risk of disruption? The consequence of this question is the need for an effective management of drug shortages by ANSM in order to identify upstream and anticipate possible stock and supply disruptions. Can you clarify the causes of each of the shortages? Are they linked to a problem of access to raw materials or production? Secondly, with regard to the future strategy, the relocation to France and Europe of the production of certain types of active substances and finished medicinal products appears to be an absolute necessity. According to the European Medicines Agency, almost 40 % of finished medicinal products marketed in the European Union come from third countries, and 80 % of the manufacturers of active pharmaceutical substances used for medicinal products available in Europe are located outside the Union. So, can you tell us how you intend to proceed: which priority channel do you think you will choose to start this relocation? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, we believe it is important to review the dimensioning of hospital tenders for the purchase of medicines. Hospitals favour large calls for tenders for large quantities of medicines. While this logic allows for a rationalisation of costs, it also restricts the number of companies able to respond to them, which may lead to supply difficulties in the event of market holder failure. In this regard, we believe that it would be necessary to seek more modest and multi-attractive tenders in order to encourage supply to several suppliers in order to secure them. Can you tell us what your intentions are in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u122	The Secretary of State for Pensions and the Protection of the Health of Employees from the Covid -19 Epidemic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u123	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist and Related Group for having initiated this debate. The Minister of Solidarity and Health, on whom I depend, could not participate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u124	We regret it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u125	... but he will be present earlier and it is on behalf of the Government as a whole that I will speak before you. I have listened well to all the speakers, taking many notes, and I will endeavour to answer you. Since some of your questions are recurring, we will certainly have the opportunity to come back to them during our discussions. So don't be surprised if I'm not exhaustive at this first speech. First, you should be aware that the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products was seized in February to determine if certain drugs could be missed as a result of the coronavirus epidemic. The Agency has always assured us that there is no risk of a shortage of essential medicines, both for the management of acute and chronic diseases. However, it maintains active monitoring and I believe that the quality of its operation should be recognised. On the other hand, it is true that there has been, and still is, tensions regarding the drugs used in resuscitation. These are tensions, not ruptures, contrary to what some have, I believe, suggested.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u126	It's all about breakups!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u127	This has been said by Philippe Vigier, we have seen a very significant increase in the use of the products necessary for resuscitation, by more than 2000 %. France has faced this increase, and we have never fallen into a dry breakdown.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u128	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u129	That being said, let's face it. I think that's what you're asking us to do, Mr Lambert: let's do it together, it seems to me that national representation is willing to do it. For more than a decade, this phenomenon of drug shortages has been growing, for several reasons. It is due to relocations or to the evolution of pathologies, with an increasing number of chronic diseases calling for more and more recurrent use of certain medicines. This phenomenon has particularly increased in recent years: some vaccines, antibiotics and medicines such as cancer drugs or antiparkinsonians, which you have mentioned, are most affected by these tensions or ruptures. To address these shortages, active and effective measures have been adopted by Parliament under the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. I am thinking of the obligation to build up a stock of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest for four months of use on European territory. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we must go beyond these measures, both in France and in Europe, because the reality of the pharmaceutical sector is European. That is what you call your wishes, ladies Liso and Deprez-Audebert, while Mr Door imagines, more precisely, a European leader in this field. You support the initiatives that have been taken in this area and you have rightly referred to the recent intervention by the President of the Republic and the German Chancellor. A number of decisions have already been taken, which are bearing fruit. First of all, on the basis of these findings, the Minister of Solidarity and Health Agnès Buzyn has drawn up a roadmap as early as July 2019. In this regard, you know well, Mr Lambert – you will not blame me for questioning you, because the Socialist and related group has experience in the exercise of responsibilities –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u130	It's a lot of bad things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u131	... that a road map is not being prepared on 4 July to be made public on 18 July; We work there for several weeks. The letters sent by Mrs Batho, about which you and Mrs Pires Beaune have called me, have therefore been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u132	You mean Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u133	Of which, if you wish to have the assurance. This roadmap will of course be complemented by all the lessons we learn together from this crisis of the covid-19: that is why we are debating, and that was the subject of my introductory thanks. As you know, the Minister of Solidarity and Health will also pay close attention to the proposals that will be made; We may have the opportunity to revisit some of them, such as Pierre Dharréville's. Our health care system is at the forefront of major changes. The discussions that will take place today and in the coming weeks will provide additional answers to the questions that we are asking ourselves more legitimately than ever before. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the message I wanted to convey to you. I stand ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u134	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, as well as that of the replies, is limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u135	I hope that I will not teach you anything, Mr. Secretary of State, by recalling that hospital pharmacies currently supply critical drugs through two circuits. There is the traditional supply chain for the majority of drugs, which is experiencing supply tensions. And there is a specific circuit for five molecules: three curares and two drugs used for sedation. Indeed, for these five molecules, the state had to requisition the stocks from the supplier laboratories and deliver the pharmacies of health establishments – the ETS – on the basis of their consumption and the occupancy of the resuscitation beds. The situation is particularly critical with regard to propofol, a major drug in anesthesia and resuscitation. The stocks of hospital pharmacies are very low and the supply by the state is very limited, with only a few vials of a dosage which, moreover, is not usually used. Practitioners have no visibility on the delivery of this essential product. The Minister of Solidarity and Health has asked hospital pharmacies to investigate the possibility of manufacturing major injectable drugs for which the State has raw materials. The feasibility study is under way, but for some complex drugs, such as propofol, this will not be possible. These tensions have a major impact on the functioning of ETS pharmacies: a complexity in the management of supplies and stocks, with more frequent upsurges in the state of stocks on the MaPUI platform of pharmacies for indoor use; a continuous resumption of orders from suppliers; a significant iatrogenic risk to be anticipated by hospital pharmacies; tris; re-labelling; information to be provided to services to avoid the risk of error; and important work to be done for the resumption of surgical activity. In this regard, given the state of the stocks and the lack of visibility on the supply, the resumption of surgical activity takes place at the dropper, trying to save the drugs as much as possible. Despite all these constraints, the pharmacies of the ETS have been able to cope and we owe them a lot. But an essential question deserves a clear and precise answer: what is the visibility, Secretary of State, on the supply of propofol?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u136	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u137	I would like to take the floor to return both to your question of propofol, Mrs Pires Beaune, and to the elements that you have mentioned with regard to all the products used in resuscitation during the crisis of covid-19. As I said earlier, I believe that we need to be attentive to the words we use. If we talk about tensions, it is because there are tensions, but it also means that we have, at all times, been in a position to respond to the demand of doctors, to be active in the markets and to acquire large stocks of products useful for resuscitation such as curare. I think it's important to say that again. You also stressed the commitment of hospital teams and the fact that some hospitals have been able to manufacture medicines to meet demand; We will learn from it and share this experience. As far as curares and hypnotics are concerned, we said earlier that the stock had certainly been widely used, as consumption had increased by more than 2000 %. These are indeed essential products for resuscitation, but when we are faced with such an important overconsumption, it takes time to replenish stocks, to resume normal activity and to use these products in other areas, such as anesthesia. With regard to the action plan you mentioned...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u138	Please close, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u139	[[Smile]] Mrs. President is harsh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u140	Excuse me, Madam President. You'll find that I'm interested in the subject. As in many areas, domestic industrial production of medicines can be seized and, in this case, it has been totally seized. After verification of the feasibility and quality of the production lines, it will also be possible to supply raw materials for industrial or hospital sites to produce these drugs. We are working on this, including to produce propofol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u141	Thank you, Secretary of State, and I would like to remind you that the time for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u142	The shortage of medicines is, of course, an old phenomenon, but we still see that between 2016 and 2017, the number of medicines out of stock increased by more than 30%. 405 reports were made in 2016, compared to more than 530 in 2017, and to date more than 800 drugs are missing very regularly. One in four Frenchmen, as Mr. Door recalled, were refused treatment because of shortages. ANSM has increased the number of reports of shortages by more than 20 since 2008. In the face of this observation, which we have all done, several factors are pointed out: the approach to raw materials; the sale of medicines in countries where their selling prices are far more advantageous than in France; Amendment of marketing authorisations; the introduction of a tight flow production system; point and massive increases in prescriptions as in the case of curares for the management of patients in resuscitation with covid -19 – and I believe, Secretary of State, that we can still say that some products have experienced a break. The mere increase in sales volumes is, moreover, an important factor, contributing to this significant shortage of medicines. In the face of this shortage, action is needed in several areas. First, the information needs to be improved to better signal ruptures and, where appropriate, allow professionals to adapt the requirements. Secondly, ANSM should work with the Strategic Council of Health Industries – the CISS – to better inform, manage stocks, adapt and anticipate; We don't anticipate enough. This battle for a better supply of medicines cannot be waged without European cooperation aimed at better preventing shortages, including harmonisation of regulations, innovative solutions and financial and fiscal incentives for maintaining or relocating production sites in Europe. Finally, priority should be given to research, specifically European research; It's essential for the future. I would like to ask you two questions, Mr Secretary of State: what direction will the French Government take with regard to the €500 billion plan announced this week by President Macron and Chancellor Merkel? As we approach the discussion of the PLFSS, can you commit to a moratorium on lower drug prices?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u143	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u144	I will follow the chronometer more closely in order to stick to the two minutes allotted. You also mentioned, Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, the European action taken jointly by the President of the Republic and the German Chancellor. At this stage, I am not aware of the details of the stimulus fund – if that were the case, I would be happy to share it with you – but we can assume that it will be reserved for the most affected sectors, in order to remedy the difficulties associated with the pandemic. It will certainly contribute to increased investment in research and innovation, which you have mentioned, and will therefore ultimately benefit the health sector, even if I do not have an indication of the precise share that will come back to it. You asked me about the possibility of a moratorium on lower drug prices. It is important to be clear about the strategy we have developed in this area in our country: the price cuts on the oldest products are intended to give as many people as possible access to innovative products. That is the strategic choice we have made. In this context, I see little possibility for a moratorium on price reductions. However, I am careful to leave a form of openness: no doubt the level of the decline will have to take into account the economic health of the various sectors; That seems relatively clear to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u145	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u146	The shortage of medicines is not a new phenomenon, but it is becoming a reality for us today with an unusual magnitude and strength. In the midst of a covid -19 pandemic, hopes quickly shifted to the discovery of a treatment or vaccine. Since then, a global race against the clock has begun. There is, in the key, a major health interest, but also, as we know, obvious financial stakes. With regard to treatments, many clinical trials have been initiated, with the hope of finding a molecule that is effective in a short time. In the case of vaccines, approximately 120 projects are being carried out worldwide. France seems to be quite well placed in this area, thanks in particular to the Institut Pasteur. We were all moved by the words of the leader of the Sanofi pharmaceutical group, who announced that he would serve the United States first if he found a vaccine against covid-19. According to its logic, the U.S. government would be entitled to the largest orders because of its investment and risk taking in research, alongside Sanofi. After anger, the questions remain. We know that France has released €8 million for the only Discovery trial, which focuses on the search for treatment, but what about the risk-taking of the French Government in vaccine research? What was more, was the Government preparing for the possibility of large-scale vaccine or drug production? For if any of the research results, there are risks of global tensions to be predicted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u147	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Mr Secretary of State, the health emergency obliges us to anticipate the risks of shortage and break-up of molecules; Without prejudice to the results of research projects, we must prepare ourselves. What partnerships have been established with industry to anticipate, whether it is the production of molecules, their marketing authorisation or their distribution? Will we be able to guarantee every Frenchman rapid access to a potential treatment or vaccine potential?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u149	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u150	A word first about Sanofi, the subject being also raised by Mr Dharréville and Mrs Obono. As you know, the Prime Minister had an exchange with the chairman of Sanofi's board of directors. He reminded him that equal access to vaccines for all was not negotiable. The president of Sanofi's board of directors gave the Prime Minister all the necessary assurances regarding the distribution in France of a possible Sanofi vaccine. You call for a collective and coordinated response to the pandemic. The priority is to provide such an answer, not only with Sanofi, of course, but also with all the multilateral actors competent in this field. In addition, France is in discussions with several industrialists to launch clinical trials in the summer to find a vaccine. It is true, Mrs. Pinel, that no vaccine is available to date. Of the 150 potential vaccines, twenty are at an advanced stage, and the only French route to enter phase 1 of clinical trial, as of July 2020, is the vaccine platform developed by the Institut Pasteur. Out of a total of EUR 7.4 billion of financial commitments announced at a donors' conference on 4 May to finance the global fight against covid-19, the European Commission has declared that it will mobilise 1.4 billion, and France 500 million. Looking at all the funding, the Government has announced the creation of a $50 million fund for covid-19 research and the launch of a call for projects by Bpifrance, targeting collaborative industrial lead projects, including vaccines. Nevertheless, collaboration between researchers must be European and, no doubt, international. The European Commission has created a European platform for data sharing between researchers, while WHO – the World Health Organisation – has developed a global cooperation platform to accelerate research. That is the state of affairs, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u151	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u152	I have received absolutely no answer to the four concrete questions I put to Mrs Pannier-Runacher earlier. If the members of the Government respond by talking to us about something else, I do not see very well what these debates and questions are for. So I'm going to ask a very simple question about drugs. First of all, for more than ten years, the National Pharmacy Academy has been alerting about the loss of sovereignty caused by excessive dependence on China or India in the production of medicines – many of us have noted it. In 2018, the senatorial fact-finding mission on the shortage of drugs and vaccines, chaired by Yves Daudigny, indicated in his report that the conditions of local pharmaceutical production had been destroyed and that they should be recreated. In 2019, a bill on the organization and transformation of the health system was introduced by Ms Buzyn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u153	They don't know her in the majority anymore! They forgot his name!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u154	On this occasion, very many amendments were proposed precisely to move towards the objective of reproducing medicines in France in order to guarantee our sovereignty in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u155	A public pole, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But they were almost all rejected from the committee stage for the simple reason that they were, we were told, out of the question. Now, with the crisis of the covid-19, these proposals are no longer out of the question. I therefore ask you an extremely simple question: how are you going to relocate the production of medicines? What do you say about our proposal to create a public drug hub?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u157	Good proposal! We're for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u158	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u159	Mrs. Autain, you raise the question of the relocation of production and, as well as Mr. Dharréville, the question of the creation of what you call a "public drug centre". Let me remind you of a few things. Even before the health crisis we are experiencing, there has been a reflection at national and European level on the increase in stock shortages and shortages, which are the subject of our debate. It was therefore not the health crisis that triggered the work on this subject. Despite a context of solid growth in global and European demand for medicines, linked to the reasons I mentioned earlier, in particular the development of certain chronic diseases, it seems that a lack of investment in the capacity to produce mature medicines may be at the root of some of the drug shortages that we have been experiencing for several years. In addition, the health crisis highlights two other industrial factors directly contributing to health product shortages, mentioned in the report submitted by the Senate in October 2018, which several of you cited: a reduced flexibility of the industrial tool in the face of fluctuations in demand and difficulties in accessing certain active ingredients related to the concentration of raw material suppliers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u160	We know all this, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u161	This actually creates, sometimes, difficulties in the supply and stock-building. We say yes to thinking about a public pole, but this issue needs to be addressed at European level. It is within a European framework that we can carry out a realistic reflection because, as I said earlier, the market for medicinal products is European; That's the reality. Yes, in any case, to bring this message to the European level and to secure all supplies, from A to Z.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u162	Will you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u163	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u164	Caregivers have repeatedly alerted you not only about the lack of protective equipment, but also about a shortage of medicines, especially those used in resuscitation services and for end-of-life protocols. In some geographic areas, reserves of certain drugs ranged from 24 hours to 5 days. Even today, the supply of these medicines remains essentially under stress. However, some medicines are essential for the proper management of patients, while respecting their dignity. On 30 March, several trade unions and associations submitted a request to the Council of State to require emergency measures, in order to avoid, among other things, this shortage. Recently, in the midst of a health crisis, the Prime Minister acknowledged the existence of very strong tensions on certain medicines needed for resuscitation and intensive care services. Corroborating these comments, the Minister of Solidarity and Health recommended the use of the products concerned with sobriety, which necessarily leads caregivers to reduce the care provided to their patients. These answers, Secretary of State, are far from satisfactory. Offshoring policies have led France to a situation of shortage, including for medicines. We should be able to requisition non-essential drug manufacturing lines on the national territory and re-allocate them to the production of these essential medicines as a matter of urgency – Communist MEPs have already asked you to do so on several occasions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] What would we do in the event of a second wave? Are we ready? The stakes will be, as in the first wave, to save lives. It is no longer a question of making risky projections of what might be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u165	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u166	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u167	I know your commitment to the hospital and I know that you are familiar with the case, Mr Bruneel, but let me tell you a few things and not necessarily agree with you. First, there is no line in France to manufacture resuscitation products, and such production lines cannot be developed in two months – I think you yourself, who know the medical thing better than I do, agree. So, what choice can we make? The Government has made: import and secure the necessary volumes of products. Thanks to our action, we have been able to acquire significant volumes of the products that you and Mrs Pires Beaune have mentioned on the market. Of course, there were tensions – as I said earlier and, as you recalled, the Minister of Solidarity and Health also said – but in no case did they cause a break; It's an important point. To answer your question very precisely, we secure the supply through imports to deal with a possible second wave. As far as the future is concerned, since your question is also concerned, we will have to consider the means by which the whole of Europe can collectively gain autonomy in this area – and that is what we have been doing for an hour and a half, in a quality debate, I believe. The question of European autonomy in resuscitation-specific products is relevant, and the answer is likely to involve the creation of strategic stocks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u168	Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u169	For several decades, France has experienced a stock shortage of medicines, both in the compendial sector and in the hospital sector. These shortages are detrimental first of all to patients, to whom they pose additional risks, at the beginning of their treatment, as well as in the follow-up and continuation of their treatment. Every day, health care professionals, physicians, pharmacists and nurses spend many hours looking for alternative therapies to remedy this deficiency, which weighs heavily on the performance of their duties. It's a waste of time for them and a loss of chances for their patients. Essential medicines are thus out of stock: I am thinking of insulin for diabetics, anti-infectives, corticosteroids, anticancers, as well as medicines of anesthesia in resuscitation, because of the crisis of covid-19. The health crisis is exacerbating a situation which we had largely anticipated, namely France's dependence on third countries for its supply of medicines. This is therefore a crisis of national sovereignty: 80% of medicines sold in Europe containing active ingredients are imported from India or China. Minister Agnès Buzyn had proposed a roadmap to combat shortages and improve the availability of medicines in France. It provided, at the international level, for strengthening national and European coordination, working to harmonise regulatory practices, proposing financial and fiscal incentives for maintaining and relocating production sites and promoting shared information on shortages between European countries. In the face of delivery times, supply disruptions, quality deficiencies and the disruption of our health system in the management of shortages, what are you going to do, Mr. Secretary of State, to implement these measures, to make France attractive to the pharmaceutical industry and to enable it finally to become sovereign again in this essential field of availability of the medicine?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u170	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u171	I have already partially answered your question, but the point of such sessions is to be able to expand the answers. It is true that the health crisis that we are experiencing highlights the need for a safe and independent European supply of health products and active ingredients for resuscitation, but also more generally. Shouldn't a list of essential drugs be drawn up? The Government has outlined its plan for a Europe of health, which the President of the Republic calls for and which the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, supports in his European exchanges. France has proposed that the Commission and the Member States should study possible incentives to develop investment in the production capacity of active substances, raw materials and medicinal products in the European Union. Financial support for innovation and the industrialization of more efficient production technologies and the adoption of regulatory measures aimed at harmonising and rationalising the procedures for the qualification of industrial lines within the European Union are two powerful ways of fuelling the European policy you want. Thanks to your journey, you know the difficulties of supply, and the need for European countries to become autonomous in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u172	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u173	My question has already been asked, but I think it is important and the subject is worth insisting on. In order to limit the difficulties in supplying medicines of major therapeutic interest, reported to ANSM since 2008, this Government, like its predecessors, has sought to bring about durable solutions. I would like to pay tribute here to the work of our former health minister, Agnès Buzyn, who, last July, presented twenty-eight measures to combat shortages and improve the availability of medicines in France. To deploy its strategy, it has set up a steering committee, bringing together all stakeholders, as of September 2019. In addition, Article 48 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2020 has also created a new mechanism to build up four months of stock for the national market for certain medicines, in order to protect against a possible shortage. However, the context of a health crisis raises the question of French capacity to ensure its security of supply of medicines. Indeed, as has been said, France depends on China and India for 80% of its input of raw materials for the active components of medicines, and when several Chinese regions have been shut down for weeks as a result of the pandemic, the shortage has been felt, from the beginning of 2020. To strengthen our therapeutic sovereignty, we need to consider restructuring the drug's value chain. France is fortunate to have small and large pharmaceutical companies throughout its territory, which employ more than 100,000 people. Thanks to their research capabilities and know-how, they are an innovative sector and a national asset. However, the pharmaceutical industry has halved its production in France between 2008 and 2017, to the benefit of other countries. To reduce our dependence, it is therefore time to make this strategic sector more important. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm to me that the drug industry will have its place in the policy of reindustrialization and that you will be able to find the economic levers necessary to restore attractiveness to this sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u174	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u175	Your question joins that of Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo on the investment that the drug sector will receive; I confirm my answer. With regard to attractiveness, it is true that, since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have made the health industries a strategic sector in this area. Nevertheless, the events we have faced in recent weeks show that we need to go much further – I say it with great humility. In July 2018, on the occasion of the Health Industries Strategic Council, the Government presented several measures aimed at improving the competitiveness and attractiveness of our country in the field of health, particularly in the areas of research and development of biopharmaceuticals and innovative therapies. The reduction of market access delays was one of the main measures announced; It is an important element, mentioned several times here, on various benches. I repeat that it did not imply in any way a reduction in the level of health requirements, which must remain excellent, but rather a simplification of administrative procedures. Incentives also sought to encourage our industries to turn to innovation. The introduction of a more stable and legible dialogue has been reflected in the last two social security financing laws by simplifying the rules governing the market for medicinal products and by the definition of a 3% annual growth floor for innovative medicines. As a result of these measures, the health industries have again taken our country into account for their investments in research and production. A recent analysis by Business France confirms this, as our country has returned to the top 5 most attractive for investors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u176	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u177	On March 27, 2019, I tabled a bill on the floor of this chamber, inspired by the work of the Senate, to ensure continuity of treatment and to strengthen the drug chain. The text was already following a clear and alarming observation: many medicines of vital interest and daily use are affected by repeated shortages. The list was long; It has spread further with the health crisis that we are experiencing, resulting in untenable and unacceptable situations for patients and staff facing the virus. What are the causes? The first, which we have all cited, is the massive relocation of the means of production; then comes the tight flow system aimed at reducing stocks; Finally, some unscrupulous laboratories voluntarily use product depletion strategies, or even production strategies, for lack of sufficient profitability. What solutions did I recommend in my text? Among other things, I will mention the relocation, thanks to an advantageous tax system, with significant reductions; the strengthening of the role and resources of ANSM and the accountability of manufacturers, by making public, on the ANSM site, for each pharmaceutical company, the history of the stock ruptures of its medicines. Since the majority has shamelessly plagiarized a bill that I made about a month ago, according to merit – which is a major deontological mistake – why not have done the same with the one I was quoting? Further highlighted by the current context, it would certainly not have helped to solve everything, I agree, but it would have allowed us to be better equipped to face the covid-19, and to invite you to finally take action. Why not listen to the opposition?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u178	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u179	I will not enter into a debate as to who is responsible for any legislative initiative; I now belong to the executive branch and I leave you with these controversies, which I have understood could be the subject of intense discussions in the salons next door to your House. The Social Security Financing Act for 2020 has strengthened the regulatory and sanction powers of ANSM. Consider what this House voted for: an obligation for manufacturers to build up safe stocks for all medicines, up to four months in France and Europe; the obligation to supply, at the expense of industry, alternatives in the event of a shortage; obligation to inform of any risk of stock failure of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest; strengthening information on shortages on the ANSM website – you can see it from this afternoon. Mr. Jérôme Lambert asked me about this; I forgot to answer him, and I ask him to apologize, but I take the opportunity that Mr.Minot's question offers me to do so. The Social Security Financing Act has also strengthened financial sanctions against industrialists, particularly in the event of a failure to build up stocks: the incentive is therefore strong, since sanctions are imposed. You will probably say that there are still some implementing texts to be taken. They are being developed, and it is true that it takes some time. Today we are talking about the health crisis, because it is the urgency we are facing, but our will is to enforce this law, and the regulations will be published before the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u180	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u181	The increase in the number of people kept in artificial coma in hospital resuscitation services has inevitably led to an increase in the use of anaesthetic medicines used for patient sedation. The number of hospitalized patients is now decreasing. However, we know that the epidemic can re-emergence and that our hospitals can quickly meet important needs. The resumption of surgical activity also depends on the availability of these drugs. So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like a precise presentation of the state of stocks at the national level. Some say that France would not be restocked with propofol until the end of June. What about it? My second question concerns the distribution of these medicines: on 27 March, in order to optimise stocks, you decided to introduce a new system, since the distribution of five anaesthetic medicines is now ensured by the Minister of Health, on the proposal of the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products, taking into account, for each establishment, the state of the stocks, the level of activity in resuscitation, and the proposals for the allocation of regional health agencies. However, many health institutions denounce the opacity and lack of readability of this distribution. Some receive products that they do not need as a matter of priority, whereas they are not delivered in expected products. Others receive unreferenced products. After accurately expressing their needs, institutions obtain a response based on an overall calculation in milligrams or grams, which absolutely does not take into account their actual needs. They note a mixture of suppliers, the lack of consideration of dosages, different concentrations. It is only when the products are received that pharmacists see the problem, while the needs are often immediate. Many examples of these difficulties could be cited. Are you considering returning to less administrative, more decentralized and closer to needs management?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u182	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u183	Mr. Lurton, I hear your question. It is often a good idea to look for the answers closest to the field and to choose the regional rather than the national level. You are right to want to give health facilities visibility on the different products you are referring to, as this is necessary for their normal activity to resume. We will ask the SRAs to exchange to determine, based on the supply of medicines necessary for resuscitation, at what rate the resumption of heavy surgery should be programmed – as it is programmed. This work, which we will ask RHAs to carry out, will also be shared with health facilities. I did not hide this earlier in my answer to Mrs Pires Beaune's question, which also dealt with our ability to provide propofol to health facilities: as we all know, tensions persist, and the return to normal will not take place until the summer. While the volume of consumption of these products has reached more than 2000 % of what it is usually, it takes time to regain the necessary stock level, and to be able to program surgery, particularly heavy, that you mention. More specifically, with regard to propofol, the situation will improve this summer, as with all products. Before we resume 100% activity, in order to rule out any risk of stock failure, we are considering a gradual restart. The commitments made will thus be respected, both for those who schedule heavy surgery, and for those who are operated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u184	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u185	My question is close to Mr. Lurton's. The crisis of coronavirus has necessitated the increased use of certain medicinal products in hospitals. In response to these important needs, and given the difficulties of manufacture and supply, the health authorities have introduced a centralised management at national level of the stocks of several medicines, including propofol, midazolam and curare-based specialties. While this centralised management is intended to ensure that hospitals most at risk of the health crisis have the means to cope with them, it is not without other important problems. For example, propofol, used in resuscitation, is almost indispensable for general anaesthesia. However, if the non-emergency hospital activity was initially suspended, it becomes essential to perform conventional surgical procedures again. Indeed, many health care professionals alert us and stress the importance of no longer postponing such acts. However, without knowing the rules for the weekly allocation of this specialty, hospital managers are unable to know what volume of interventions they can program. How to restart the operation of an operating unit, when there is only a few days of visibility regarding the availability of an essential anaesthetic? Some will say that propofol can sometimes be replaced by midazolam. But for this product too, the supply is very limited. In addition, its active ingredient is fundamental to palliative care. In addition, the products received are often very disparate: if they have the same active ingredient, the packagings and dosages are different, which increases the risk of misuse. In the short term, what solutions are you considering, Minister, to give visibility to our hospitals, and to supply them on a regular basis, especially with propofol and midazolam? Is it conceivable that our industrialists, even our hospital pharmacies, will ensure the production of these essential specialities very quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u186	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u187	You may be suspected, Mr. Turquois, of working with Mr. Lurton, since you are asking the same question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u188	It's because they don't have any more questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u189	I will add to my answer just now. As I indicated to Mr.Lurton, the SRAs are already working to trace information on health facilities' stocks to them in order to have an image of their volume.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u190	And more questionnaires!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u191	This makes it possible to decide on the redistribution of stocks. There is also a need for health facilities to have visibility in this area – otherwise, how could they program their activity? That is why we have asked the SRAs to close the loop, and to give the health facilities themselves, who provide them with the information, an image of the stocks. I repeat: the right solution is to gradually resume, starting with the most urgent surgeries, before getting in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u192	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u193	"Drug stocks count on a day-to-day basis. They are so small that we no longer have access to certain medicines. Secretary of State, we all have in mind calls for help like this, after hearing them from the medical staff themselves. The tensions, as you say, were strong in Hauts-de-France, from which you come. The first reason? Almost 80% of active drugs are manufactured outside Europe. Our hospital system currently has only 10 days of visibility for these stocks, and we are moving towards serious difficulties in the event of a rebound or second wave of the epidemic. What is true for medicines is also true for protective equipment – masks, blouses, charlottes and gloves – which can be described in some cases as inappropriate, both for the use that makes it, and for the image of the public hospital it gives. No, a garbage bag is not an appropriate outfit for a caregiver, even in times of health war! Similarly, it is regrettable that some liberal health professionals are almost on their own, with famelic endowments: only 12 masks per week for Occitanian podologists! Some speech therapists are obliged to request a special grant from their commune, in order to be able to resume care, especially from their patients with strokes. Similarly, to postpone the classical surgical acts in order to reserve the medicines for the anesthesias and resuscitations of the services dedicated to covid-19 is not a normal policy, even in times of health crisis. No, giving liberal health professionals a supply similar to an obole is not satisfactory, even in times of health crisis. My question is twofold: what plan do you intend to adopt for France to regain its health independence? Do we have sufficient stocks of medicines and protective equipment in the event of a second wave of the epidemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u194	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u195	Mrs. Thill, thank you for reminding me of the Hauts-de-Frances and the hospital of Armentières, which is dear to my heart. I am regularly the situation, for this one as for the CHU of Lille; We're from the same area, even if you're from a little further south than I am. If I do not want to cut our exchanges short, Member, I have already answered your question quite clearly earlier: we must gradually resume surgery; information on the necessary product levels should be made available, in particular through SRAs. You have asked a number of questions which I think are somewhat more controversial than political. Earlier, during questions on decisions on the management of mask stocks, you will be able to talk to the Minister of Solidarity and Health on this subject. For my part, I do not believe that the measures taken by the Government to recognize the commitment of hospital staff should be seen as alms. It is a true recognition of the nation with regard to those who have been exposed and engaged. Finally, as Olivier Véran said: we must co-build with hospital staff, which will be done in the coming weeks, you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u196	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u197	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u198	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u199	The next item is the question of decisions on the management of mask stocks. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u200	Minister of Solidarity and Health, between 2017 and 2020, we are told, 600 million masks intended for the general public or health care providers have been destroyed. You said that it was because of their expiry – whereas in reality it is more often the elastics that perish – and the appearance of moulds. In short, the stock made up in previous years has been destroyed. The result: when we needed these masks, there was no more, which led the Government to explain successively that they were not necessary, then not necessarily indispensable, then not so easy to use – we now see what is happening in the streets of France... However, in 2019, the National Academy of Medicine on the one hand, the High Council of Public Health on the other, indicated that masks constituted in case of a serious epidemic the "payment of insurance", which could give the feeling of spending for nothing but constituting as many individual protections. In essence, the question is simple: why, when these masks were destroyed, were the stocks not reconstructed? Moulds and perishing can be invoked; In the end, the question is not why the stocks were destroyed, but why we didn't have masks when the crisis occurred. You had not yet taken up your duties, but I imagine that you have since conducted an investigation into your administration to determine why the stocks have not been reconstituted, who has decided to do so, and why the French have found themselves without masks. Clearly, why did the state not take insurance when it was up to it to do so, that it even had a duty under the law? What is the state of the investigations that you conducted to establish the responsibilities for the deprivation of the French in the face of the human, health and economic catastrophe that we are forced to endure because of this failure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u201	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u202	Mr President Lagarde, I will not come back in two minutes over ten years of history in France, especially since I have spoken on this subject several times and a committee of inquiry, as I understand it, will be set up in the coming weeks to examine it in detail and in depth. What is certain is that in 2020, the bulk of the masks stored in the warehouse of Santé publique France in Marolles were essentially no longer able to protect caregivers, because they no longer corresponded to the crucial standards of filtration and/ or breathability. The request for expertise of these masks was sent in 2017 and the response obtained at the end of 2018, as a result of which masks that were no longer usable for caregivers were gradually destroyed. After a review in March 2020, it was possible to switch some of these masks into the general public category, which did not previously exist, as filtration capacity standards were less demanding for the latter than for caregivers. We will shed light on the reasons why, year after year, the stock of masks has fallen from more than 1 billion to a few hundred million, out of use for caregivers in addition. The questions that this raises are entirely legitimate. I repeat, we will have the opportunity to reply not in two minutes at this question-and-answer session, but probably at a hearing of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u203	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u204	We are in the middle of a week of scrutiny, Minister, when, during the commission of inquiry, we will only have a minute to question you if things continue at the same rate. I hope, however, that we will have other investigative procedures. Moreover, you will not be the only person interviewed because those in office will also be held accountable. The doctrine established by the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security in 2013 was simple: the state had to take care of FFP1 masks to protect the French – I don't speak by caregivers – and employers, hospitals and private companies, had to buy FFP2 masks to protect their employees. Thus, until the disappearance of the EPRUS – the health emergency preparedness and response facility – which had proved its worth, it was decided to build up stocks. Why did the state – perhaps you won't be able to answer this afternoon, but I look forward to the future – not have stocks? It's not just because the masks were out of date: my previous question was about the political decisions that were taken at some point by successive governments not to buy them back. Who checked the stocks for hospital staff? I asked this question, during a hearing of the fact-finding mission, to a prefect in charge of a defence zone, whose work it is. There has obviously been a complete technological dysfunction: the enforcement of the law intended to protect us has not been monitored in private companies or in local authorities and hospitals. I know that, on these issues, you will not fail to conduct the necessary investigations in your administration – because you will have to come to it, even if you have had something else to do in recent times – but you could at least answer the following question: when did the Government realize that we did not have legally imposed stocks in private companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u205	Those are good questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u206	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u207	You are referring, Mr. Lagarde, to a change in doctrine regarding the management of the FFP2 mask stock that dates back to 2013. Until then, this management had been national; Secondly, the doctrine has evolved on the basis that FFP2 masks should be intended for workers most at risk of aerosol viruses and that it is therefore up to local bodies, public or private, to provide for the stock of masks necessary to cope with the risk inherent in the activity of their employees. These are in any event the first elements that have been communicated to me, subject to the results of the diligent checks and the work of the future commission of inquiry. The state no longer had stocks of FFP2 masks in 2015 or 2016 – I no longer have the exact date in mind but I can assure you that when I took up my duties, we didn't have one. As for the stocks of surgical masks that can be used to protect caregivers, I indicated, as early as the first or second week of my appointment, that it stood at approximately 114 million and that this was going to pose difficulties. I note – although there is no question of releasing anyone from the responsibilities related to the management of masks for ten years – that France is far from being isolated: Germany, Italy, Spain and many others of our neighbours have disarmed themselves from their protective equipment, hence the question of Europe's ability to constantly anticipate this kind of health crisis. You are right to point out that this also raises the question of decision-making mechanisms: who controls? Who's watching? Who's checking? In this case, the stored surgical masks did not even have a expiry date when they were purchased in the early 2000s. It was in 2017 and 2018 that they had to be removed from the warehouse to analyze samples in order to verify compliance. The masks we now buy are all equipped with expiry dates, which allows us to control stocks in real time and to anticipate any shortages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u208	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u209	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, faced with the shortage of masks to deal with the covid-19 epidemic, numerous initiatives have been launched, which demonstrate the dynamism of local elected officials. Some have organized workshops for women dressmakers and women dressmakers. Others encouraged residents to make fabric masks, most often stating that it was necessary to comply with AFNOR's recommendations, as set out in its Minimum Requirements Guide, regarding testing, clothing and use methods. The mayor of a commune in my department even made hundreds of masks for its administrators. We have all seen these initiatives motivated by goodwill and the need for urgent action; I take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to all those who took them. Some seamstresses wonder about their responsibility for the quality of masks, although not tested, but which have been very useful in pacifying the shortage of the first few weeks. At the same time, these masks have sometimes been distributed by communities. Manufacturers and communities should be reassured that they will not be disturbed in the event of a covid -19 occurrence despite wearing these masks. The public should also be reminded that these devices are only a complement to barrier actions, that they must be properly maintained and regularly changed, and that they do not provide as much guarantees as masks tested and sold by professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u210	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u211	Like you, Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, I salute the commitment of the seamstresses – those of a trade such as the many on Sundays – who, especially in rural areas, have mobilized to make masks. They started by consulting tutorials that were circulating on the Internet and then, as we worked with AFNOR, we gathered all the knowledge about the correct manufacture of a mask, including the textiles to be used, in a recommendation whose application makes it possible to produce high quality masks. An international comparison which I have made revealed that only two European countries have adopted regulations on masks in order to guarantee a high level of filtration: France and Portugal, which have also opted for the same level. In any case, I note that in many other countries masks made by seamstresses are recognized as barrier masks that protect the mouth and nose. So I want to thank and reassure these seamstresses: they have done a great job,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u212	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u213	... to the point that, when the sale of masks was authorized, the distributors informed us that many people did not want new masks because they already had copies made by seamstresses. I would also like to point out that we have ensured that the VAT rate applicable to masks is fixed at 5.5% for those who comply with AFNOR and fabric indications. And we've worked with fabric manufacturers so that seamstresses can continue to produce masks by acquiring now certified filter fabrics and using the logo of the same industrialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u214	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u215	Mr Minister, on 21 March you said at a press conference: "It will be time, at the appropriate time, to draw all the consequences in terms of preparing our country for a threat which, I would remind you, has been a health first for more than a century. » The health crisis is not yet behind us, but avenues for solutions can already emerge. In the face of some of the central State's difficulties in managing mask stocks, the local authorities have done considerable work in purchasing disposable and reusable masks from abroad at the beginning of the crisis, and in taking various initiatives to order and manufacture these health products locally. I have a particular thought for the Northern Department, which has been exemplary in distributing many masks to certain health professionals, instead of the regional health agency, or in delivering certain products on behalf of the government services. Thus, taking into account the specificities of their territory, the local elected officials have been able to react with the agility given to them by their proximity and their precise knowledge of the needs of the field. Eight pharmaceutical establishments manage the strategic stock of drugs and health products on behalf of the Government. Do you not think, in view of the lessons we must learn from this crisis, that certain powers relating to the management of this stock could be conferred on local authorities, more able to meet the specific needs of their territory? Overall – I have experienced it on various occasions – if we are not sufficiently trained in crisis situations in France, the networking of local authorities and the associated skills are sources of real effectiveness on the ground. I continue to believe that health policy is also based on a spatial planning logic, taking better account of the role of communities and their capacity to organize. The current health crisis gives us an opportunity to verify this, and I wanted to highlight and commend the investment and sense of responsibility of local elected officials. Therefore, should we not, at the most relevant level, equip communities with concrete competence in the management of health commodities, without dispossessing the central State? The aim would be to improve complementarity so that each entity could usefully complement the other's weaknesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u216	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u217	Mr Christophe, you are right to stress the very important role that local and regional authorities have played and continue to play. The State is accompanying them since it covers half of the cost of masks intended for the general public, as long as they meet AFNOR standards. Communities have made much more and made many decisions, which we have accompanied every time it is necessary – I have responded to telephone requests from territorial executive presidents who needed a hand in importing masks. Should we decentralize the management of masks to the level of town halls, for example? I replied to President Lagarde earlier: since a state official considered that the management of FFP2 masks should be decentralized, the state stock has vanished and the management of these products has become very complicated. Similarly, at the time when a mask requisition order was taken, we found that there were several small stocks in state agencies or companies, which were distributed to caregivers. I can testify without provocation, the piloting of mask stocks is already complex when it is centralized; I am therefore not convinced of the relevance of its decentralization. On the other hand, we could equip the CIREs – the intervention cells in the region of Santé publique France –, placed with the ARS, with decentralized means of protection, articulated with a national management and control designed to verify that everything is in order and that the stocks of masks and other protective equipment are not out of date. This subject will be integrated into the global reflection that I will carry out with all the actors, after the health crisis, to protect ourselves from another and to prepare us even more than we were for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u218	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u219	Minister, at this time of epidemic, the mask, nolens volens, has become the symbol of our unrepair, not to say the abandonment of our sovereignty. The Government's statements on the wearing of the mask by the population may have seemed vague, and that of the President of the Republic, according to which France had "never been in breach of masks", seems to us to be a denial of reality. Beyond reporting, the greatest misunderstanding lies in decisions about the management of mask stocks, long before the epidemic. It is not a question of designating culprits, but of reconstructing a decision-making process, which has clearly proved ineffective, if not dangerous in the midst of a health crisis. The aim is, of course, that these mistakes will not happen again. We're starting to get a little bit of back-up and information about these malfunctions. In 2017, the state had zero FFP2 masks in reserve – that's little – and 714 million surgical masks, most of which will prove obsolete and will be destroyed, this has already been recalled. Since 2017, only 100 million masks have been ordered: Jérôme Salomon, the Director General of Health, himself told us that, at the time of his takeover in 2018, he had asked for an expertise, as well as another order of 100 million masks. It would appear that these two orders are the only ones placed since 2010, so much so that the stock in March 2020 was 117 million masks, if we understood correctly. What is the state's doctrine regarding mask stocks? Has the principle of holding a strategic stock of 1 billion masks been abandoned and, if so, why? How can we explain that the state has not increased or even renewed its stocks, even though they were growing rapidly? We believe that these issues are relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u220	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u221	I would not want to be too redundant, Mr Castellani, although I understand that many questions concern the management of mask stocks in the decade preceding this health crisis, in particular the fact that there were 114 million masks in stock in 2020 compared to more than 1 billion ten years ago. As I said, an investigation is under way and work is under way to explore the issue. You have pronounced the word "sovereignty": the European countries, over the years, have indeed disarmed themselves, in terms of their stocks as well as their production capacities; This is true of masks, blouses, overblouses, charlottes, gloves and medicines, which pose many problems, especially for medicines used in resuscitation, which are of major interest. You have just debated drug issues for two hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u222	But we didn't get any answers to our questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u223	We have to think about the future. However, rather than doing so at national level, it seems to me, in a European convinced, that we have an interest in having a Community strategy for the production and anticipation of such events. We quickly revived the production of masks, even though France was one of the European countries to continue to manufacture protective, surgical and FFP2 masks. I take this opportunity to greet the employees of French companies who do so because they have been working at a much higher rate for weeks and weeks, thus participating in the effort to protect the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u224	They're over thirty-five hours?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u225	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u226	Minister, the covid-19 epidemic has shown that our reserves of protective equipment are very insufficient to cope with a major health crisis. With regard to masks, the situation is clearly the result of a series of decisions taken in the 2000s. In a first step, we have been massively supplied to protect ourselves in the event of a health crisis However, after the episode of influenza A in 2009, during which the state had spent considerably, the doctrine has evolved: a distinction has been introduced between the strategic stocks of the state, managed at the time by the EPRUS, and the tactical stocks, borne by the health institutions; Since then, FFP2 masks have been reserved for directly exposed caregivers, and employers are responsible for building up stocks. The result of this change in doctrine: the stock of surgical masks fell from $1 billion in 2009 to $150 million in 2019, and the stock of FFP2 masks completely disappeared at the time of the epidemic, compared to $1 billion in 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u227	Thanks to Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u228	However, this strategy was denounced in 2015, in a report by Francis Delattre, a senator at the time: it certainly makes considerable savings but results in increasingly frequent supply disruptions. During the epidemic, we faced a real shortage, which forced a restrictive management of the distribution of masks and late and urgent orders. We need to review our stock management policy, especially as the crisis can last and other health threats can be foreseen. Are you considering a change of doctrine and, if so, which one? The major role played by local authorities, particularly the regions, should be highlighted: they have often been more responsive to supply hospitals and health professionals, even though it was a State responsibility. What is the State's contribution to the financing of their actions? The question arises as the date for taking over was set for 13 April, while many orders were placed before to deal with the crisis. In addition, the scale and benchmark are largely inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u229	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u230	Mrs Pinel, I can share some elements of your intervention, but your assertion that the regions would have been more active than the state to protect hospitals is false. You cannot say that, if only for all the people who, in the RHAs - the regional health agencies - and the central administrations, have chained days and nights to organize logistics and destock masks, so that hospitals never lack masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u231	At the Great East SRA, it wasn't that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u232	We are not very numerous in the Chamber, so we can hear you well... We didn't have enough masks to equip everyone in the conditions we would have liked, so dentists and physiotherapists had to stop their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u233	And the liberal nurses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u234	And no masks for EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u235	This does not mean, however, that others have been more effective than the State. Regions sometimes had strategic mask stocks, stemming from the provisions of the old doctrine, such as companies, some of which agreed to give them to hospitals. All this brought a complement of masks, but only a complement. We were destocking 35 million masks a week at the beginning of the crisis and the number has now increased to 100 million; I very much doubt that a single territorial community is able to provide even half a day in hospitals. All the special efforts have been praised, encouraged, accompanied and thanked, but this does not justify all the criticisms addressed to the State regarding its management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u236	I didn't blame you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u237	We all love the state deeply, and I would like to emphasize the injustice of some critics. Finally, I have already responded four times on doctrine, and I will have four more opportunities to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u238	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u239	Like many colleagues, I strangled myself yesterday listening to Emmanuel Macron saying that there was no shortage of masks. Is it a memory black hole or black humor? I do not know, but the more than 40,000 caregivers in medical and social institutions who were contaminated largely because they did not have sufficient protection had to find brackish the head of state's reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u240	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u241	Moreover, since priority was naturally given to carers, some employees were not at all protected in their workplaces, for example those in the nuclear sector, as the Nuclear Safety Authority told me. Management has been catastrophic, at least we can say, for years, and your unrepair has worsened the situation. This prompted you to lie many times, claiming that the masks were not useful, then that the French did not know how to use them and that they were not willing to use them for cultural and other fads. In truth, you have left the market largely to ensure the supply of masks, which has led to a tenfold increase in their price, whereas they should be free. What are you waiting for to organize the relocation of a French sector of mask production? I ask you this question because I am worried after speaking with the former Managing Director of Honeywell, who confirmed to me that the US equity fund had ordered, in 2018, after the relocation of production in Tunisia, the destruction of machines in Brittany so that they would not be used for competition. He told me that he had submitted a draft SCOP – a cooperative and participatory society – but that he had not received any reply from the State, although he might have found a Swiss investor, with whom I hope he will succeed. When will you put the means to plan the development of a French mask industry allowing self-sufficiency in FFP2 surgical masks? Indeed, it may be feared that it will be needed again in the years to come, because of covid-19 or other diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u242	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u243	Mr Coquerel, your question gives me the opportunity to present our work over the last ten weeks. For the FFP2 surgical masks alone – France was one of the four European countries to produce them – the weekly production has increased from 3.5 million to 20 million as of next week, and we are working to increase it to 50 million in October. I would remind you that in normal times, we use about 5 million a week. We have accompanied the four companies that own sites in France to help them build their capacity, as well as the manufacturer of machines that produce masks in France, which we have brought closer to Michelin for industrial processes. We also looked for companies capable of producing masks, and we made the link for the timely supply of raw materials, machinery, some of which were transported from China with our support, through customs clearance on departure and arrival. That is very concrete! We have also set up a line of reusable filterable masks: now about 80% of the masks produced filter more than 90% of the particles of 3 microns. They are validated by the ANSM - the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products - and by the ANSES - the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour. A large half of these masks have been made in France, and we are currently supplied with about 40 million masks per week, representing just over 400 million single-use masks. I would therefore like to reassure you:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u244	You don't reassure me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u245	... we have many industrial sectors that make masks intended for France. Let us know that, on this point, we are rather ahead of other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u246	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u247	"We've never been out of masks. This lunar sentence by the President of the Republic is shocking. We have three hypotheses: either her "we" designates Mrs Macron and himself – in which case he is surely right – or he lives in a parallel dimension where the coronavirus never existed, or it is simply a lie. I'm leaning for the last option. You have accustomed us to the "truths and fiascos" in the management of the crisis: the title of our investigation report published today was therefore found everything. You can read on page 27: "France had 2 billion masks ten years ago, compared to 117 million at the end of March this year. » How can we explain this disaster?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u248	Sarkozy, come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u249	It is quite simple: the establishment responsible for the management of sanitary stocks has been dismantled and it has been decided that they will be managed by health facilities, already suffocated by austerity. That's how stocks melted like snow in the sun, that's how austerity policies threatened our health security. You're going to tell me that it wasn't your responsibility, it was the responsibility of previous governments. We agree: it is certain that their responsibility is engaged. But yours is, too. Who removed the national health reserve? A certain Emmanuel Macron, minister under the presidency of François Hollande. In addition, as of 2018, Public Health France had warned your Government of the shortage of stocks, and you ignored a request for the reconstitution of a stock of 1 billion masks that came to you in 2019. Your responsibility is probably the caregivers who talk about it best. I quote André Grimaldi, professor emeritus in a university hospital: "Having removed the stocks of masks formed in 2007, it was a mistake. To say today that masks are useless except for caregivers is worse than a mistake. Yes, Emmanuel Macron is the president of the shortage. Yes, we've been breaking masks, and you yourself have created the conditions. So my question is simple:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u250	So there's a question?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...how can the President still lie in the face of those who had to deal with your guilty impreparation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u252	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u253	For a minute and a half, I thought it was a political trial. Fortunately, your speech ended with a question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u254	It's a political question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u255	What I will answer to you, Mrs Panot, is that we should perhaps listen to the President of the Republic's comments in their entirety. Perhaps you have only listened to one sentence or read only a short excerpt published in a tweet. The President of the Republic, listening carefully to his speech, was extremely clear:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u256	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u257	... he said that we had an insufficient stock of state masks to protect all the health professionals of the city and hospital over time, which is why we carried out a requisition, extremely strict management of the stocks and the destocking of masks, so that the state stock never falls to zero and we never find ourselves in the situation that would have required us to ask caregivers to take care of the patients of the covid -19 hospital without protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u258	That's what they had to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u259	It's amazing to hear that! They even had to make masks with 3D printers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u260	Madam Member of Parliament, you spoke of a lie: I answered you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u261	We're just repeating what caregivers say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u262	Please, ladies and gentlemen, only the minister had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u263	We can't let him lie like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u264	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u265	Mr Minister, you first explained to the citizens of the country that the masks were useless, then that they were essential exclusively for the caregivers, and then that the French might not use them properly. Finally, once the definity has come, it is time to increase the stock of general public masks, made mandatory in transport and then in colleges and high schools. The subject is too serious to laugh at and be the object of a gag. But what a fiasco for the sixth world economic power! You used and abused a false argument, the uselessness of masks, to hide a real shortage. In fact, orders were placed late and in too small volumes. Worse still, the laws of health requisition that we proposed to you have not been applied. You will have to answer for these actions once the crisis has passed. We shall not forget that, even if, by then, it is necessary to allow all French people to obtain masks. The Government has effectively capped the selling price of surgical masks. According to surveys conducted by consumer associations, it has already been multiplied by 6 or 7 since 15 March: a box of fifty surgical masks which at that time cost 7 euros on average now costs more than 40 euros. No need to ask the multiplication to imagine what this amount represents for a couple with two children who have to go to college or high school. This financial burden cannot be borne by all the households in our country, on the eve of a major economic recession. Fortunately, some cities make masks available free of charge. As masks are an essential instrument of health, it is the responsibility of social security to take care of them at 100%. Do you intend to introduce such a measure? The security is vital; The masks, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u266	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u267	Isn't the minister answering me?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u268	I will answer you, Mrs Faucillon; I am sorry if you are not satisfied with this, but we have agreed with my colleague. You're asking about access to masks. I want to say again what the state is doing about it. First, as the Minister of Health has decided, 100 million masks are available to caregivers. I'm not just talking about those who treat patients with covid-19 or who work in EHPADs, but about all those who have a medical activity, be they dentists, physiotherapists, radiotherapists, and receive patients – it's very important because we all have to go back to our doctors, for control or prevention visits, for example. These 100 million masks are also made available to patients who are ill, on prescription, in pharmacies. Secondly, masks are distributed every week to the French, not always through the social security circuit, but free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u269	And the ones people have to buy, who's gonna pay them back?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u270	They can be provided by employers as part of their responsibility for protection, but we also distribute more than 5 million masks per week to vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u271	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u272	... washable more than 20 times, allowing more than 105 million uses per week. As a first step, we chose to go through town halls and prefects, because it was simpler, and the CCAS – the communal centres for social action – have played the game perfectly in recent weeks. In addition to the 100 million for caregivers and the 5 million per week for the precarious, the State is the first provider of free masks in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u273	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u274	As you can see, our answer is largely up to the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u275	What about the refund?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u276	With regard to precarious people, we are working with Secretary of State Christelle Dubos to improve distribution channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u277	So we will never get an answer, Madam President! I must say, it was up to the minister to answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u278	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u279	My question also concerns the free payment and reimbursement of masks, and I regret that you did not answer that of colleague Elsa Faucillon. We'll discuss the masks until the end of the afternoon. I would like to point out that, in a 2005 parliamentary report, experts already predicted that pandemics would occur, and more and more often. They therefore felt that wearing the mask, although costly, would be an effective protection tool for the population, stating: "The provision of sufficient masks would certainly be very expensive but, at the same time, would help to limit the paralysis of the country. » I am well aware that at the time of this report, neither you, Mr.Minister, nor I were responsible for this matter, and that many health ministers have followed each other since then. Unfortunately, the problem of masks and their production remains topical. Without a trial of intent but placing myself on a political ground, I note that this mask problem is a reality and that we must be aware of it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u280	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u281	... especially when the President of the Republic says that "the day after [...] will not be a return to the day before". You answer that you are trying to do the best you can; We ask even better than that. In the event that the pandemic lasts – we would have to live with it – and if masks are missing again, it is important for us to know whether storage arrangements will be made, and which ones, and that you provide us with details about production. The issue of free masks is also important because it is a public health problem. I would also like to point out that it will be the subject of a proposal by the Communist Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u282	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u283	Regarding access to masks, as Mrs Pannier-Runacher said, 5 million of them are distributed to the precarious public through the CCAS...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u284	We're starting to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u285	... and 100 million masks are destocked and distributed free of charge every week to all caregivers, from the state stock from the 3 billion copies ordered in China. A reflection is being carried out and is at an advanced stage, concerning the coverage by the health insurance of protective masks intended for certain audiences, in particular the beneficiaries of the CMU – universal health insurance – or of the ASS – the specific solidarity allowance – in order to further strengthen the level of protection. You also asked me about the doctrine of future management of masks and stocks. We're going to see all this again. As you can imagine, we are not going to go back as before by pretending that the problem is behind us. Believe me, the first decision we will make after the crisis will be to prepare for a new crisis. There'll be a state stock. This time, we will find no one to criticize the minister who will decide to keep a massive state stock of masks. I would just like to remind you that the Prime Minister has made such a decision for weeks and even months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u286	It was the socialists who mocked her!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u287	This is Roselyne Bachelot, to whom I also pay tribute because she was the first to say that we had to build up a stock of important masks when we heard in the media that it was an unnecessary expense, a gabegie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u288	His hospital law, patients, health, territories, it was not a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u289	In hindsight, these facts must encourage modesty and perhaps avoid, Mrs Faucillon, speaking out in a parliamentary debate. History will judge. Concerning the doctrine of wearing masks by the general population, one can repeat the story a hundred times – that is what will happen – but, at the moment when I speak to you, in some European countries, the wearing of masks is not recommended by the general population, or even not recommended at all. Studies are being conducted to determine whether or not it is an effective tool. WHO – the World Health Organization – is cautious in saying that if you think you're safe with the mask and that it encourages you to stop applying the barrier gestures, it can be worse than anything. We will have scientific elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u290	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u291	We took the lead not to be taken in default if the wearing of the mask by the general population proved to be really useful in the face of the coronavirus epidemic. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. Until then, caution: history has given many lessons, especially to the teachers of lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u292	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u293	Minister, it is with total humility that I wish to address the issue of the management of mask stocks. We have heard so many lessons from those who, a few years ago, thought it useful to destock. We need to understand the situation in order to learn from the various difficulties encountered. I want to make a quick chronology of the mask supply crisis, seen from my activity as a Member of Parliament for the Far East, at the heart of the spread of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u294	We must not change the meaning of history!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u295	Can you let me talk, please?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u296	Only Mr. Belhaddad has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u297	Since the beginning of March, hospital staff have been alerting me, telling me that they are not sufficiently protected while engaging in invasive acts. Unfortunately, several health professionals have left their lives there. Starting in mid-March, I was alerted by EHPAD and home services. Then, in April, it was the Liberal professionals and finally the general public. Despite the requisition, it has been possible to find stocks of masks, which I myself have collected and distributed, in a very insufficient number unfortunately according to the needs. Much has already been said about what happened before the crisis and what should happen at its end. For my part, I would like to go back to what happened during the crisis. At the end of February, we had 117 million surgical masks. We knew the state of need in the face of this pandemic, about 1 billion masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u298	That's not what the President says!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u299	I would just like to focus on this point. Has the so-called "commando" unit set up at the Ministry of Health adequately understood the realities of a world market facing shortages? Are the tools and skills we have well suited to this boiling market?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u301	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u302	I am not trying to brocade officials, but simply to understand the path from the dissolution of the EPRUS within Public Health France to the European announcement of the centralized emergency stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u303	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u304	For seeing it closely, week after week, day after day, I can tell you that, when the risk of epidemics in our territory became serious – I had to tell the French that the stock of masks I had found when I arrived was not enough to protect the caregivers of our country in the long term – everything was done to find the masks wherever they were, with perseverance and hard work. The French production plants started to run day and night. The orders have been placed. Contracts for the manufacture of masks have been concluded with Chinese factories. Importation by air bridges has started: Antonovs have been sent back and forth several times a week, and masks have even been imported into airline planes so as not to lose the slightest day and never to fail masks in our country. That doesn't mean we weren't in tension, but we were always able to hold on. We managed to serve hospitals when the use of masks was increased by 40 – especially in your area, Mr. Belhaddad – and it was necessary to provide them with a lot of masks to protect caregivers. French production at the bottom of the balloons; Maximum import of all masks that could be ordered and purchased. We also received countless offers of masks, various and varied: all were examined, although many of them did not, alas, correspond to realities. We did everything we could. This is an opportunity to greet once again our fellow citizens belonging to institutions, private or public, who decided to join the crisis cell of my ministry and took turns to give us help for logistics. This was very complex, especially because of the requisition established in our country, which allowed us to review both our production capacities and our needs and our stocks, but in fact, in the early days, made it particularly difficult to organize the distribution of masks, especially for pharmacies. It was really a struggle all the time to make sure that our stocks were supplied and distributed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u305	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u306	Minister, since the beginning of the crisis, you have always advocated transparency on the stock of masks that we had. You said we didn't have enough – and certainly, yes, we didn't have enough masks, like virtually every country on the planet affected by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u307	Not practically: all countries!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u308	No one – I say no one –, not even the greatest epidemiologist or commentator in public life, could anticipate the scale and severity of the current crisis. The choice, assumed, was therefore made to give priority access to surgical masks and FFP2...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u309	There wasn't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u310	...to those who were on the front line: the nursing staff of hospitals. This doctrine, decided in consultation with the Scientific Council Covid-19 and still recalled this week by the President of the Republic, is restrictive. Yes, we have lacked masks in some areas of activity, particularly in the home help sector; Liberal nurses have also experienced supply difficulties. However, given the stock of masks you had and the exceptional situation we faced, the distribution work was complex and difficult to carry out. With the debunking, a more open policy of access to masks has been put in place, in particular with the emergence on the market of consumer masks. I would like to recall that in two months, only two months, more than 400 French companies have reconverted to make masks in fabric...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u311	Little hands...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u312	There have been 400 companies, but also small hands of collective solidarity as we know how to organize in France. In this connection, I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary of State and her collaborators, who have done an extraordinary job. It is now a matter of protecting our population as much as possible as possible in the context of the definity, in order to avoid the second wave. If this was to happen, what doctrine should be adopted?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u313	Thank you, dear colleague; We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u314	Yes, I come to my question! In this situation, would you opt for a restoration of the initial doctrine of restriction or do we have a sufficient stock of surgical masks and FFP2 to deal with a possible second wave, which I hope will not occur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u315	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u316	If it were necessary, Mrs Hammerer, we could continue until August to destock some 100 million masks a week for caregivers in hospitals and in the city. Moreover, the import and distribution channels have gradually resumed their normal course; As a result, health care institutions and liberal professionals were able to take back their supplies from their usual provider. We are still in a situation of tension, far from a return to normal – that is why we continue to destock masks by hundreds of millions. However, the distribution channels have nevertheless been considerably strengthened, and it is so much better: Chinese productions were able to restart during the spring, as well as French productions, as Agnès Pannier-Runacher rightly points out, whose work I once again salute. We can therefore face a possible upsurge in the epidemic, even if we must remain very careful; I've been doing this since the beginning because you can never predict the magnitude of an epidemic crisis. As I speak to you, with both national experience and expertise, but also European and global, we will be able to keep this rate of destocking until August in case of necessity, which is a good visibility. Finally, I note – as you are right to say – that not a country has escaped the difficulties of masking, including among those who are often cited as examples. In this regard, we often refer to foreign countries to say that we are doing less well, but we never mention them to explain that we are doing better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u317	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u318	Be aware that some of our neighbors have been forced to ask hospitals to wash their masks on their way home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u319	That's right again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u320	In Germany, there were no problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u321	Some countries – from large countries beyond certain oceans – have decided to stop wearing masks for the care workers of very large hospitals. It is therefore true that we were in a situation of tension, that we experienced real supply difficulties and that it was very difficult for caregivers in the field, both in the city and in the hospital; But it is also true that we have done our utmost to protect them in the long term. We have made every effort to be able to anticipate the coming weeks and months if necessary; But we're touching wood so it won't be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u322	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u323	The figures give the turn: millions of masks ordered, stored and to be ordered have finally blurred visibility in terms of protective masks for caregivers. More than a question, it is a testimony that I would like to bring here, a testimony from the inside of the machine – with a great Mr Investie volunteered in the ARS of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur since 15 March – I also thank his director general, Mr Philippe De Mester, and all his teams for having welcomed me and accompanied me to their establishment – I would like to testify to the logistical organization of a region that its proximity to Italy and its globalized port and the very old population that lives there was in danger. While the speeches referred to millions of masks, stocks arrived irregularly in time as in volumes. Yet the logistics, both in the GHT – the local hospital groups – and in the officiaries, has adapted to make the shortages as short as possible and to supply the forgotten professions – I am thinking of the funeral directors sector and the DASRI collectors, waste of care activities with infectious risks. The National Order of Pharmacists has even created, in PACA, an application, GoMask, to make the stocks intended for caregivers readable and visible; It was a great success. However, while there was a need to work in the local organization with caregivers, the country-wide shortage slowed the debate and placed the SROs and their departmental delegations at the forefront of the desolation of caregivers and sometimes of their anger. Minister, a parliamentary inquiry will be essential to restore consistency to the necessary relationship of trust between caregivers and agencies responsible for the organization of care in the territories. Questions on stock control, in terms of quality and quantity, will have to be asked, and the new precautionary provisions will have to include phases of control at each level of responsibility of stakeholders, such as businesses and local authorities. This may have been lacking in the recommendations of the SGDSN – the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security – of May 2013, which distributed the new decentralized responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u324	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u325	First of all, allow me to thank you, Mrs Mauborgne, for your voluntary engagement in a regional health agency in the midst of a health crisis. Several parliamentarians have committed themselves because they wear the coat or carry out an activity that has enabled them to be particularly useful in the health sector. Those who do not wear the blouse, it is well known, have also committed themselves in their own way in many other areas, in contact with associations, companies, schools or the inhabitants, in this time also special for parliamentarism. Thank you also for highlighting – rare – the role played by regional health agencies throughout the management of this crisis. It is so much easier to find a scapegoat, to target a responsible person at the level of the state or the region, considering that if an epidemic causes death or damage, it is the fault of one. We can always look; This is not necessarily the bravest behavior, it is often even the simplest, and it is sometimes even very unfair. This is the case for RSAs: without them, without their engagement in the territory... Just one example: France organized more than 600 medical evacuations, by train, boat or plane; Without the SRAs, we would not have done them, we would not have saved all these lives, we could not have mobilized hospitals hundreds of kilometres away from the cities in which the people had fallen ill. This does not mean that we must not improve things or rethink what should be done, including proximity to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u327	This will be part of the reflection because it is necessary. Nevertheless, I repeat, should we, as many do, seek leaders? It's not necessarily a big word: many people have been responsible during this crisis, you have been responsible for the mission you endorsed, the agencies have been responsible for the actions they have carried out and have saved many lives. I would also like to thank the National Pharmacists' Order as well as the profession as a whole, without which the distribution of masks to Liberal health professionals would simply not have been possible. I thank the President of the Order, who immediately responded present when I called her and asked her for a hand; This is also the solidarity and commitment of health actors in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u328	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u329	Before the last speaker in the La République group, I would like to apologize for the perhaps redundant nature of my question and my presentation of the facts. However, this repetition, particularly in terms of chronology, is not useless when we hear the misconceptions in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u330	Why don't you make the carers look like liars?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u331	You recalled, minister, when the first signs of the covid-19 pandemic appeared, the state had a stock of masks of only 117 million, whereas in 2019, a Senate report indicated that France had 723 million FFP2 masks and 1 billion surgical masks. In 2011, the High Council for Public Health recommended pragmatic rotating stock management. Finally, in 2013, this was also said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u332	Where was Macron?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u333	... the SGDSN changes its strategy and puts in place a new organization: to the State, via the EPRUS, the management of surgical masks for the care of sick people; to employers the creation of stocks of FFP masks2. This shift in doctrine is based, as has been said, on the anticipation of the management of flows and not of stocks, and on the capacity of France, which we thought was assured, to rely on imports as well as on French production capacity. It will be up to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to determine the reasons for this change of course in 2013, and above all the technical data on which it was based, you pointed out. My question is pretty classic, but you should be able to answer it in advance. In this context of unprecedented health crisis and given past decisions – changing and sometimes contradictory – how the Government intends to implement its new strategy for the management of mask stocks, in the light of two objectives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u334	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u335	...that is, in the short term, the need for the state to distribute 100 million health masks every week and, in the longer term, to anticipate the production and supply of masks in the event of a global pandemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u336	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u337	Mr Terlier, it is true that I have already answered several times the questions concerning the changes in doctrine and the evolution of mask stocks, as well as the legitimate questions that this raises, to which we will normally have to explain in an ad hoc committee of inquiry. I also mentioned the future management of masks: it is clear that France, like all the countries that have been hit by the epidemic, will remember for decades this episode and will ensure that sufficient reserves are made. Will they take the form of a national strategic stock or regionally-based territorialized stocks? As I said, we can consider everything. And I will not be alone in deciding this because I believe that, on such a subject, it is necessary to know how to surround one another and to entrust to a collective of experts the task of ensuring, in the long term, that things are going well, so as not to experience new tensions. I would have answered Mr. Coquerel, but he left. He was much quicker to tweet than to listen to the rest of the debate on masks. I thought he was passionate about it... He tweeted that I said there was no shortage of masks for caregivers and doctors. For Mr Coquerel – I am speaking in his empty place – I will repeat what I said here and all of you have heard: I did not say that there had been no tensions or shortages for caregivers; I said that the number of masks in the state stock had never fallen to zero, which required very important stock management efforts, caused cabinet closures in the city and was difficult to live in the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u338	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u339	Minister, the covid-19 epidemic has brought to light malfunctions and wanderings in the management of mask stocks over the past decade. The successive changes in doctrine, the relocation of our production capacities and the lack of European coordination in this area have undoubtedly diminished our ability to respond to the crisis. Based on this situation and in order to best respond to the situation, several decisions have been taken: a requisition to secure the national stock; a major order placed in China; a relocation of production. Thanks to the mobilization of historic factories in our territory and the installation of new production lines – supported by Secretary of State Pannier-Runacher, whom I salute – we have achieved a production capacity of 20 million masks per week. These decisions, dictated by the urgency of the situation, were able to meet the needs of professionals and then those of the population. However, once the emergency situation is over, it will be necessary to rethink our procurement strategy as well as the functioning of our administrations in times of crisis. A pointy and protective administration is essential in normal times but must increase flexibility and responsiveness in times of crisis. This epidemic also highlights the interest and need for European management of health crises. In the face of a global phenomenon and the uncertainties associated with production, air freight and peak demand, we must provide a European response. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, about the adaptation of the doctrine of the management of mask stocks – as well as that of the stocks of tests and vaccines – necessary to take account of the new parameters: generalized port, national production capacity, European coordination, sovereignty. How can we reconcile the legitimate demand for health sovereignty for our country with the essential strengthening of European solidarity in crisis management?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u340	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u341	Mr Tan, in order to vary the pleasures a little bit and to give a slightly more industrial perspective, I will answer your question. Olivier Véran, having already well enlightened your assembly with regard to doctrine, I will instead go back to how we are building resilience. First, it is important to rebalance our supplies between what comes from France, Europe or distant countries. Since we currently have a production capacity of 20 million masks per week, Santé publique France has placed an order of 1 billion masks made in France, whose arrival will run until the end of the year. We have thus built a basis of resilience that allows us no longer to be totally dependent on arrivals from abroad, in this case from China. Secondly, at the Competitiveness Council, I am working with my European counterparts to achieve a shared vision on the provision of masks. It turns out that France is a little ahead of the subject. Firstly, it invented a new category of masks, with guaranteed levels of filtration, to which Portugal has aligned itself. Secondly, it relied on an AFNOR recommendation which the European Union is interested in making it a standard. We are therefore moving towards the qualification of these products so that they can be disseminated at European level. Thirdly, we want to secure the entire sector, in particular the supply of raw materials. We have launched a call for expressions of interest to finance the production of meltblown in France, and we are not the only ones who have carried out this kind of approach at European level. The usual production structures can be pushed in times of crisis by mobilising additional machines. We can also rely on public masks. This is the plan to ensure long-term resilience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u342	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u343	First, I'd like to say a word about SRAs. It is their organization that must be called into question, not their staff, who have done with the means at their disposal. The Greater East region comprises 5.5 million inhabitants and covers a territory twice as large as Belgium. How do you want to handle masks on this scale? My questions will be more specific. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, are you aware of the VAT rate applied to masks imported by a public authority and distributed free of charge? It is zero: imported masks are exempt from VAT, according to a note from the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duty of 28 March 2020. And what is the VAT rate applied to the same masks purchased from French companies by the same authorities? It's 5.5%! I do not understand this difference in treatment between imported masks and masks produced by us, especially since many European countries have decided to exempt these products from VAT. I have already asked you about this. My second question was suggested to me by the merchants of Colmar. Why are masks not mandatory in shops and markets? It is anticommercial to ask a customer to put his mask when he enters a store. The mayor of Strasbourg has just taken a decree to make the wearing of the mask mandatory on the markets; In my opinion, this order is illegal and the prefect will not fail to refer it to the administrative court.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u344	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u345	In answer to your first question, Mr Straumann, there is already no difference in treatment between imported masks and those made in France: the VAT rate is zero if they are intended for donations; it is 5.5% – the minimum rate authorised by the European Commission – if it is intended for trade. In a previous exchange, you mentioned a cross-direction note from the European Commission which mentioned the possibility of further reducing the VAT rate. To my knowledge, only one country goes in this direction, and for an extremely short period, starting retrospectively from 13 April and running until 1 July. The 5.5% VAT rate will apply until the end of 2021, for a much longer period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u346	Imported masks are subject to zero rate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u347	Let the Secretary of State answer you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u348	Not all of them: when they are destined for trade, they are taxed at 5.5%, like those made in France. As for the doctrine of wearing masks in shops, we worked with traders. They did not want it to be mandatory – but perhaps their position has evolved. Anyway, the rule of the game is very clear. A merchant may request the wearing of the mask in his store for various reasons: in order to protect his customers and employees when he considers that the barrier gestures are difficult to respect, or given the nature of the goods or the configuration of the store, which makes it difficult to move. As a general rule, the demand is well understood by clients, but I have been informed of some difficulties. We will begin a dialogue to consider adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u349	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u350	The mask has become the absolute emblem of the major health crisis we are going through. I do not want to argue about crisis management because we will never know if others would have done better than the current government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u351	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u352	It is important to note, however, that during the H1N1 influenza epidemic, France held considerable quantities of masks, while last March we entered a very disarmed health war, almost without stock and with too little equipment. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, after three years of power, it is up to your majority to take on this situation, instead of taking refuge behind very old decisions; In three years, it was possible to restore everything. In this regard, I think it would be interesting to study the communications of the French Embassy in Beijing to know since when the Quai d'Orsay knows that there is a suspicion of a pandemic in China. But these are the real questions: why did France not armed itself to face the war that was prophesying? Why is France one of the countries that did not know how to buy masks and other equipment effectively at an early stage to protect their caregivers, doctors and population in general? I want to give you this testimony. A few weeks ago, in my constituency, liberal nurses toured the elderly without the protective equipment absolutely essential for them or for patients. In the future, how can we ensure that we have large, permanent and renewed stocks of blouses, masks, gloves and other single-use equipment? In five years, when this crisis is forgotten, will we again be a cicada country, or do you have the means to codify things so that the tragedies we have experienced do not happen again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u353	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u354	[[The president cut the speaker's microphone, whose speaking time has expired.]] I have a second very short question, which I can sum up, by thanking you, Madam President, for your understanding: should European law not change – the current markets are open to the four winds – to ensure national production...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u355	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u356	Mr Furst, my colleague almost rose up to answer questions that were rather in his register, but you ended up landing on questions about the industry and how to build up stocks of masks or other protective equipment in Europe. Olivier Véran may come back to the first part of your speech, although he has already spoken a lot on these subjects; For my part, I will endeavour to answer your last question. As I said, the first challenge was to mobilize French industries...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u357	It's the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u358	...for the manufacture of masks, swabs, blouses, overblouses, etc. As part of this approach, we looked for quantity while looking at the balance of products provided to hospital centres and EHPADs from the outset. Let's take the example of the overblouses. Buying a single-use overblouse at 10 euros makes no sense, given the way the market works. China is not alone in the issue because the goods may come from Vietnam or other countries...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u359	From Indonesia!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u360	Or Indonesia, indeed. These countries don't sell 10 euro overblouses. For the buyer of a hospital, who must be concerned about public money, it is not a reflex. Seventeen years ago, I worked in a large hospital, the AP-HP – Public Assistance – Hospitals of Paris. We had a large procurement plan that allowed us to reinvest in equipment. I am therefore familiar with these subjects. If you know how to make a washable blouse fifty times and have the same properties as a single-use blouse, then you progress. In this case, you have to master the entire circuit. We have worked in this direction on the various equipments. For hospital centres and EHPADs, we have set up an online sales platform for equipment other than masks, which are managed by Public Health France. We are moving forward with the textile industry to achieve stabilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u361	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u362	Finally, I come back to the European project which will enable us to provide a Euro-Mediterranean response, which will be more resilient to these difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u363	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u364	I have two questions to ask you, Minister, and I ask you not to break down behind the committee of inquiry, especially since your responsibility is in no way engaged. Let's go back to history. In 2011, there were 800 million surgical masks and 600 million FFP2 masks in stock. In view of these quantities, in 2012 the Directorate-General for Health considered that there was no need to renew the stock. According to Ms.Touraine, who declared herself ready to testify before the Board of Inquiry, there were 750 million masks in 2017. Finally, Minister, on 21 March 2020 you said that France had 117 million surgical masks and no FFP2 masks at the beginning of the pandemic. How did we get there? It will be fairly simple to know, since a 2007 law requires the Minister of Health to declare the number of masks he orders to renew or increase the stock each year. Finally, can you guarantee, in front of the national representation, that France has never sold part of its mask stocks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u365	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u366	You're not lucky, Mr. Diard, because you're in eighteenth position and I've been asked seventeen times the same question...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u367	And it's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u368	...which could make our debate a little redundant! However, you have had the merit of asking a question which I have not yet answered: has France already sold some of its stocks? Honestly, I don't know, but I have no reason to think so, in any case as far as the recent period is concerned. I will have this item checked if you wish; It must be easy to know by searching the archives of the last thirty years. In reality, the history of masks in France is a fairly recent story, which begins with the H1N1 pandemic and the first acquisitions by our country. These were, moreover, too important for some Frenchmen and commentators, which probably – I can be mistaken because I instinctively deduce it – played in the management of masks over the next ten years. When you look for those responsible and you point at them, you'll have to caricature. I was not one of those who mocked Minister Roselyne Bachelot on the issue of masks, or on the issue of vaccines, because I know it is complicated and can be debated for a long time. I would also like to tell you that it is late: when I talk to industry about getting out of the vaccines, I always ask them to have containers in order to individualize the doses. At the time of the H1N1 flu, only 100 doses could be purchased at a time, which had prevented vaccinations in practice. It took, remember, to vaccinate in gyms and people were in line. The doctors had not been involved in the vaccination campaign. And the poor health minister did not know, when she had bought the vaccines, that they would be delivered in the form of huge vials and that it would be impossible to obtain pipettes! Each crisis is therefore rich in teachings. It would be good if we all learned humility – of course I am not aiming at you, Mr Diard. This would allow us to progress and be all winners in the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u369	It cannot be said that humility is the first quality of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u370	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u371	Mr. Minister, you may not know this because we are not of the same generation: in 2006, I was co-rapporteur of the H5N1 avian influenza fact-finding mission. As part of the health crisis strategy to deal with the pandemic, I had advocated the mandatory wearing of the mask for the entire population. While such a measure would have had a high cost, it would have helped to limit the paralysis of the country. In 2007, I was still rapporteur of the law on the preparation of the health system for large-scale health threats, known as the "Giraud Law", which created the EPRUS, which is responsible for the management of stocks to combat health risks. In 2009, the state had, as you said, 1 billion surgical masks and 800 million FFP2 masks. On 3 March, I asked you about the national stocks here and you acknowledged the failure of the state in the management of masks, which has been the subject of an avalanche of criticism. However, in 2011, when the H1N1 commission of inquiry was counted, and I was once again the co-rapporteur, there were 600 million FFP2 masks and 800 million surgical masks, as my colleague Eric Diard has just pointed out. You are right, minister: the commission of inquiry will have to answer many questions. Let me ask you one thing: while the EPRUS has been wrongly disarmed – I stress, after many others – would you seriously consider re-establishing this institution's competence for the future management of national stocks in the event of a future health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u372	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u373	We must acknowledge, Mr Door, that you have produced interesting, informative and even constructive reports during your parliamentary career.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u374	That's nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u375	I say it because it's true – I've read them! You will therefore be eager to participate – and I would be happy to associate you – in the work that will follow the crisis. It is still too early to talk about post-crisis, but it will be necessary, when it is passed, to look back, not to look for culprits – I'm not interested – but to identify the mechanisms by which the disappearance of the mask stock may have occurred, so that such a shortage does not happen again in the future. As for the EPRUS, has the merger of several agencies into a single structure played a role in the situation we know? I don't know. The issue was relevant and merited consideration. Public Health France produces a large number of data and publishes a large number of health prevention messages, including Nutri-Score and the national tobacco control plan. Is the same structure capable of verifying that France is in a position to manage a health crisis? I will not hide from you that we have had some reason to doubt it... In any event, the subject will have to be addressed in the context of a reflection to which I invite all those who have constructive proposals to make. Since this is your case, Mr. Door, I would like to invite you officially.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u376	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u377	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u378	Minister, I congratulate you on the energy you have deployed so that our national capacity to make masks can grow rapidly and we can supply masks all over the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u379	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u380	The crisis has revealed that our health care system is too dependent on imports: one third of purchases are made abroad, as well as 80% of surgical and dental equipment before the crisis. This is obviously a major concern. As far as masks are concerned, my question concerns the clearance of FFP2 masks. At some, but not all, customs points, significant waiting times, up to a week, have been required to unblock large packages of masks expected by health facilities. Can you clarify this point? Masks are the priority material, but in Île-de-France and other regions there has been a real shortage of blouses in hospitals and EHPADs. RHAs are responsible for the distribution of masks between health facilities and EHPADs, but apparently are not responsible for the supply and distribution of blouses. Shouldn't we learn from the crisis and provide for effective procurement procedures for masks and blouses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u381	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u382	Mr Barrot, as regards the clearance of masks, we must be aware that we have increased the number of masks released at the entrance to French territory by 3000 %. We organized ourselves, in particular with a specific team at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport, responsible for separating conventional goods and protective equipment, and with a support cell from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, responsible for the interface between customs and the firm – one of my collaborators was responsible, almost full-time, for tracking imports from China until they entered customs at the airport, in order to ensure that the goods were received. We now have some experience in this area, with many files from local authorities or businesses being sent to us because they were blocked. We intervened for almost 300 companies and 50 channels, with telephone conferences held twice a week, and we unlocked the situation on a case-by-case basis. In many cases, importers were new and lacked customs clearance experience, which was not prepared upstream. Problems related to the matching of standards were also noted: on 30 March, we opened recognitions of standards, some of which caused confusion when products arrived at customs; For lack of pre-clearance, the goods were patient. Customs has done remarkable work to ensure that the goods entering the territory are of good quality and have the right certificates. As you know, several countries have had bad surprises; to my knowledge, we didn't have one in France. In conclusion, I would point out that 50% of the goods entered into France were processed in less than 30 minutes for customs clearance, 90% in less than one day and 95% in less than three days. This means that blocking cases involved very specific cases, often poorly prepared by importers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u383	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u384	The epidemic of covid-19 developed abruptly and rapidly throughout the planet. Given the fulgurance of the spread of this unknown virus, global and national health authorities have had to make decisions and organize the health response despite a low and fluctuating level of knowledge. It is not a question of blaming or clearing anyone: this assumption must be made in order to analyse the situation with relevance and honesty. While it appears that at some point France, like many other countries, has lacked protective masks, we must first understand why and learn from them, particularly with regard to the Government's responsiveness to massively command masks. As such, it seems interesting to us, Minister, to further clarify the financial and cash arrangements of the supply chains. Indeed, while the State has endeavoured to import mask consignments through an intensive air bridge, it must be recognised that many local authorities have been remarkably able to adapt and secure their own import chain. I am thinking, for example, of the Île-de-France region, which has itself secured its sector, particularly with the help of the Franco-Chinese community in France, and which has managed to distribute 20 million masks to various audiences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u385	Say thank you to Mrs. Pecress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u386	This should not lead to an effective competition between the state and its deconcentrated services on the one hand, and the communities on the other. It must be used to rethink or adjust the organization of our administrative and health system in the territory. Minister, with a little hindsight, what analysis do you make of the management of the supply and distribution of masks, with regard to the relations between the different strata of the state and the local authorities? Finally, for the future, what prospects can be envisaged for everyone to take their part and be involved, commensurate with their skills and capabilities, in the development and management of our country's health security strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u387	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u388	You're asking me for my personal analysis, Mrs. Elimas. It seems to me that there have been two ways in the communities to take responsibility: some have wanted to participate in the distribution of masks and support hospitals and caregivers in the face of the crisis, and they have done so; Others said that the State was unable to do so and claimed to be able to do so in its place, and they generally did not. Communities said they would do everything on their own and succeed in doing what the state had not done; Some of them ordered masks from China, which they never saw arrive... Others have managed to obtain some through Chinese-based companies but have had all the difficulties of the world in sending them to our territory. As I said before, I received a large number of phone calls from local officials looking for a solution to transport the masks they had ordered. I remember in particular a disembodied executive president because the masks he was waiting for were not on the plane supposed to carry them... Where we have teamed up, in the name of the general interest, it has made sense and, generally, it has been effective. Where there has been defiance of the state, where it has been said "you will see what you are going to see", I invite you to see for yourself the mismatch between these statements and the reality of the facts. The vast majority of communities have done well and have done well. We helped them every time we could, which is perfectly normal. We have been able to rely on them, we are still doing so, and I thank them for that. I was simply allowing myself to point out a small difference according to the places and the politicians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u389	Tell me who you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u390	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u391	My question this time concerns the provision of masks for liberal health professionals, who, although not practising in hospital, are also on the front line to ensure continuity of care for vulnerable people. I will not mention them all, but I am thinking of nurses, physiotherapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists, orthopaedists or psychomotricians, who support our fellow citizens on a daily basis in the trials of life. To enable them to operate safely, we must guarantee that they will be provided with the necessary protective equipment, so that they will be provided with sufficient masks. In my territory, for example, I have received testimonies from nurses that there are great difficulties in obtaining complete endowments, particularly in FFP2 masks, which they are in dire need of. However, in the face of the pandemic, we must more than ever protect the men and women who are on the front line to treat the French. Minister, can you remind us – I am sorry that the terms of my question are as close to those of the first – the doctrine of providing masks for liberal health professionals and establishing a precise state of implementation to date?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u392	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u393	Don't apologize, Mrs. Elimas: I'm here for this – and we'll be done soon... As I speak to you, the 100 million masks distributed by the pharmacy network – I thank all professionals once again – allow us to cover all the professions in the liberal sector, including those you have not mentioned, such as ocularists or epithesists, who can now resume their activity. Some of them had to close their offices for whole weeks, sometimes at our request, sometimes for lack of protective equipment; I thank them for this important effort. Health insurance and its specific funds have been able to develop a financial compensation mechanism for them, which is quite normal. Let's take the dentists. There's been a time when they haven't had enough FFP2 masks, when they need them to work, since they're in direct contact with projections – I'm not drawing you a picture. We organized with them, including through their order, and they agreed to keep some 400 open offices to ensure emergency response by consuming a small amount of FFP2. Now, each dentist is entitled to twenty-four FFP2 masks per week, for himself and for a dental assistant or assistant, and can gradually resume normal activity. But the period was very complicated for the health professions. Other sites have remained open because they have protective equipment, but there has been a sharp decline in the consumption of routine care. I even had to ring the alert several times to instruct patients to continue to be treated and tested. [[Smile]] I hope I've answered your question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u394	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u395	The health crisis is crossed by a long red line, which has become a real scandal, in response to contradictions: the shortage of masks and its management by the Government. Minister, you said on February 24: "France has massive stocks of surgical masks if we needed to distribute them. The Director General of Health said two days later: "There is no issue of shortage. But on March 21, you took the opposite of the position taken so far by saying that it was because you had, from the beginning, considered that the availability of masks was going to be a difficulty that it had been decided to resort to import. This was already more in line with the experiences of health professionals placed at the forefront of the epidemic. It turns out that our stocks had only 117 million surgical masks still valid. The Government has been aware of this situation for almost two years: in 2018, Public Health France warned the Director General of Health that the number of masks stored would be insufficient in the event of a pandemic scenario, before renewing the alert on 20 May 2019. Why didn't you act then? It is the Director General of Public Health France who is in office until 2019 who speaks best about it: he states that it has been decided not to rebuild the stock of 1 billion masks. It was not until March 28, 2020 that China ordered the same number of masks. You can always deny the relevance of the word "shortage"; The French, invited to make handcrafted masks made of fabric, are not fooled: to your carabistouilles, they answered by the scramble. As by chance, as the stocks were reconstituted, your recommendations for wearing the mask were evolving. It is not a question of looking for scapegoats;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u396	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u397	...the French only want the truth, and we owe it to them. How many masks were in stock on March 15th? Why did you ignore Public Health France alerts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u398	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u399	You know the answer, Mrs Pires Beaune, since I have already given it to you in questions to the Government: 114 million masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u400	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u401	As your answer, minister, has not been the same in the National Assembly and the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u402	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u403	...I wanted confirmation. Let me turn to my second question. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has adopted the fox's attitude in La Fontaine's "Le Renard et les raisins" fable: warning of beautiful mature clusters, it wanted to chew some of them; cannot reach them, for they were too high, he comforted himself by saying that, anyway, they were not ripe. This time, it was "Mr. Philippe and the masks." And now the masks yesterday "unnecessary", according to the Director General of Health, should absolutely be worn, always according to the same. But the palm undoubtedly returns to the President of the Republic, who, on Monday night, on BFM TV, denied the shortage by saying: "France was never broken masks. The executive has put in place a restrictive doctrine. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u404	Yes! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u405	What a disrespect for medical personnel! Does the President of the Republic have any idea what we have been through in our territories? Some examples. I remember this angry and very worried pharmacist because he just couldn't put his staff in masks, yet on the front line. The same goes for this out-of-town company boss. I also remember this general practitioner stunned because he had no masks either. I still remember this home service manager begging me to find masks, her "girls," she said, no longer wanting to go to the elderly for fear of contaminating them. I finally remember this helper at the CHU, who was not wearing a mask because the health setting was rationing them; That was the order. And I'm not even talking to you about the situation in EHPAD! To tell the French that there was no shortage is a terrible mistake. That's how I feel about it. The President of the Republic must understand that he does not play a role, that politics does not consist of making communication throughout the day or trying to rewrite history. A little respect for these women and men who have suffered from the shortage of masks! A little respect for the caregiving community that has already paid a heavy toll on the epidemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u406	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u407	Minister, are you aware of the shock and injury that these words may have caused in the French, especially among caregivers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u408	That's a real question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u409	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u410	I do not know what to answer a question that has been formulated, Mrs Pires Beaune. I do not want to be provocative, but in a commission of inquiry we speak under oath and do the part of things about what has been said or done by past or current officials. Now, for the past three months, I've heard a lot of accusations: lies, bankruptcy... It would be interesting if the future committee of inquiry could also hear political leaders who, without being in power, could have their share of responsibility in some of the difficulties we have encountered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u411	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u412	I will invite the committee of inquiry, whenever it appears useful, to call on those who have made false statements in the National Assembly or in the media to explain them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u413	Normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u414	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u415	You say "yes," Mr. Furst, and I know you sincerely, but I was able to hear such false statements on your benches that I thought their authors had misread the text of their question! When you call someone a liar, it's the same, Mrs. Pires Beaune: you have to prove that there was a lie. A commission of inquiry can also serve that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u416	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u417	With regard to the intervention of the President of the Republic, I have already replied. I told you that all of his comments were intended to explain very clearly this: the rationing logic that we have put forward since the first day in terms of masks and protections was intended to allow our state stock – as we said, the Prime Minister and I, at each press conference – not to fall to zero, in order to have the guarantee that we can continue to protect the caregivers who were fighting in the hospital, on the front, resulting in an overconsumption of masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u418	Caregivers have missed it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u419	We have never denied the tensions faced by the care workers in the city and in the hospital. We never denied that things were difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u420	As far as you're concerned, I admit it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u421	We even thanked those who had to stop their activity, encouraged those who were fighting to find means of protection. To say that, in these difficult conditions, the stock has never fallen to zero and that rationing and requisitioning, which France is the only country to have practiced, have allowed us to face and never manage to miss masks to protect hospital caregivers, is not to lie, that is to say the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u422	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u423	To give the presidential metaphor, France went to war, but without being equipped, as if it never learned anything from history. In July 2005, during the avian influenza epidemic, France was considered by WHO to be one of the best prepared countries in the world. In 2006, the number of masks per capita was one of the highest in the world, with 600 million FFP2 masks. In 2007, we were able to produce 300 million to 400 million masks annually, resulting in a stock of $1.4 billion in 2012, as recommended by HB, the Health Branch. These stocks have been poorly managed not only by your predecessors but also by you. We cannot continually blame others: the others are us, minister! The previous quinquennium was you: you were sitting on the benches of the House, in the socialist majority; Gabriel Attal and Benjamin Griveaux were members of Marisol Touraine's cabinet! If the fault lies with the previous quinquennium, then it is yours too! It's too easy to change your name and say: "It's not us, it's the others! » In 2016, Professor Salomon made a very alarming report. In May 2019, the High Council of Public Health concluded, in a stock report, that in the event of a pandemic, France would need 1 billion masks. Who cared? Stocks of masks continued to be discarded until the end of March. Why have they not been renewed, as wisdom would have commanded? The most hurtful thing about the decisions taken to deal with the crisis is that we were lied to, that we were told that the masks were not necessary, to say the opposite afterwards! Why didn't you tell us the truth? It would have been so much simpler and more honorable! And please, Minister, don't talk to us about dwarf rabbits: not all French people have the heart to laugh at this time when health crisis rhymes with unemployment and family tragedies. I only ask you to be precise: why were the recommendations made by the experts in May 2019 not implemented? Why have not orders for masks designed to renew the stocks been placed in order to replace the obsolete masks with the unit next door?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u424	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u425	The aplomb with which you asked your question, Mrs. Chill, suggests that you already have the answer. I therefore propose that we meet at the end of the debate to explain to me how things have happened and how you would have handled the situation over the last ten years. You speak an ad personam argument towards people who are not there and have not asked for anything; That's your right. I answered you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u426	We're done with the questions on decisions regarding the management of mask stocks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-20-O1218.u427	Next sitting, Tuesday, 26 May, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Motion for a resolution on the national recognition of caregivers and the creation of a status of children of caregivers who have died of the covid -19; Proposal for a law on the improvement of workers' rights and the support of families after the death of a child. The meeting is adjourned.
