ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u1	The President of the National Assembly took note of the cessation, on June 23, 2020, at midnight, of the term of office of Luc Carvounas, MP for the 9th constituency of Val-de-Marne, elected mayor of Alfortville on Sunday, May 24. In a communication dated 23 June 2020, the Minister of the Interior informed the President of the National Assembly that Luc Carvounas was replaced until the National Assembly was renewed by Sarah Taillebois, who was elected together with him for that purpose. The Speaker of the Assembly received a letter from Ms. Sarah Taillebois informing her that she was giving up her term as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u2	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u3	There is an electoral district to be taken in the Val-de-Marne...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u4	This resignation is noted and will be notified to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u5	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Cécile Rilhac and several of her colleagues creating the office of school principal (No. 2951, 3118).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u6	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u7	It is with great honour and awareness of my great responsibility that I present to you a subject that is dear to me: the role of school principal. Let me have a special thought for the principals I have met throughout France for three years, and for those who have written to me. Our discussions in committee confirmed the decisive importance of this issue and it was therefore legitimate for national representation to take over it. The problem of recognizing the duties and responsibilities of school principals is not new.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u8	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u9	It is essential for them, but also for the proper functioning of the school for which they are responsible, to improve their working conditions. This text is the result of a long consultation process. We met many stakeholders and experts in this field, conducted interviews and visited establishments throughout France. First of all, the complexity of the fabric of these 44455 public schools prohibits a global response. A reflection as close as possible to the territories, needs and specificities of each school is necessary in order to facilitate, finally, the daily work of our school directors and principals. Their responsibilities are indeed extended, but their room for manoeuvre is limited; They have little autonomy and can hardly take any initiative. Their many missions are specified by a trade repository. These responsibilities are divided into three areas: the operation of the school, pedagogical animation and relations with the school's partners. In addition, a decree of 1989 gave them a new mission to protect children, inviting them to be very vigilant about the problem of absenteeism. In order to prepare for all these missions, future directors receive initial training. Every year, about 4000 schools do not find volunteers to carry out this leadership mission, which leads to complicated situations since teachers are then appointed late, without any training. The school principal has many responsibilities, but on the one hand he lacks the time and the means to fulfil his missions, on the other hand institutional recognition to take initiatives and establish his functional authority. In order to carry out their tasks, managers are provided with management discharges, ranging from a few days a year to a full discharge. They suffer from a great loneliness in the face of many tasks that pollute their daily lives: opening and closing of grids, securing the surroundings of the school, welcoming delivery agents, cleaning, plumbing, distribution of mail. All these tasks reinforce their ill-being and their sense of being deconsidered. Finally, the director must constantly ask his superior for permission to act, whether to conduct educational projects and to implement the decisions taken in the various councils or to organize the life of the school. The status quo is no longer possible for school principals! This bill, which I am defending before you, along with my colleagues in the majority, is modestly aimed at improving their situation. I insist: this text does not create an intermediate level or a statute for school principals; he does not establish a hierarchical link between the principal and his fellow teachers. On the other hand, he states that a director must be able to take appropriate initiatives and decisions for the operation of his school. Yes, he admits that a director is not a teacher like any other. Finally, it confirms the importance of existing bodies and the collegiality of work, so dear to teachers in schools. The debates in committee have enriched this proposal by stating four objectives. First of all, recognition requires the affirmation of the principal's essential tasks. Article 1 strengthens its power of initiative and decision-making. In fact, the discussions in the committee drew the contours of the delegation entrusted to it. Article 2 aims to create a school management position to recognize the specific nature of its tasks and responsibilities. This makes it possible to articulate the leadership function with missions such as teaching, training or coordination. Since these tasks are already carried out by many principals, these are not additional tasks. We will continue our discussions on this matter and I will propose a new wording for paragraph 7. It is also necessary to simplify the tasks of school principals. Article 2 states that all school principals will be discharged from complementary teaching activities, the PCAs, in order to concentrate on their management tasks. In addition, the new wording of Article 5 adopted in committee will make it possible to carry out an experiment to alleviate the tasks related to the organisation of elections of representatives of parents of pupils in case of a single list. In addition, Article 6 assigns primarily to the academic authorities the preparation of special safety plans, known as PPMS. The third objective, which is to support school principals, is the creation of a reference "school director" within each academic direction. This proposal responds to a real need of school principals: they must be able to inform a different contact person from their superior about possible problems, to whom they would dare not open themselves for fear of their work being called into question. This progress is very much expected. Finally, the final objective of the text is to improve the job of the school principal. Article 2 provides for a specific allowance and accelerated career advancement. Thus, this bill gives school principals a full and complete function. Far beyond political rivalries, this text is guided by only one objective: to recognize a function and to improve the working conditions of school principals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am sure that our debates will enrich the text of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u10	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u11	Madam rapporteur, I thank you for presenting this bill, which gives me the opportunity to recall, after you, to the national representation, the remarkable commitment that has been made by our principals since the beginning of the health crisis. As soon as the closure of the schools was announced, everyone mobilized to maintain the link with the families, via the Internet, by telephone, sometimes by mail. Many of them visited their schools every morning to accommodate the children of staff who were essential to the management of the health crisis. It was also thanks to their work that, as early as May 11, schools were able to reopen gradually,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u12	Very gradually! It's been complicated and it's not all settled yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u13	... by respecting the requirement of the health protocol that applied when some thought it would be wiser to wait until September. Since Monday, all students have been welcomed back to their school. This new stage also required reassuring families and bringing together the teams around this last straight line before the summer holidays. All this took a lot of work and organization; It has been necessary to adapt continuously to take account of changes in the epidemic context. First interlocutors of families and communes, first guarantors of the proper functioning of schools: the crisis will have highlighted the scope of their missions and the requirement of their function. It was obvious before the crisis, and it is even more so today. I reiterate to them the gratitude of the Ministry of National Education and, more broadly, of the entire nation. Without them, educational continuity could not have been ensured. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] We must recognize in the law the specificities of their tasks and we must in practice improve their conditions of exercise. Because our principals are doing a job of rare quality, we have succeeded in the complete deconfinition of the school. We are the country of Europe where the most pupils have returned to school – 80%, to be exact, I was aware of this figure today. To walk on both our legs, we need to consider the specificities and diversity of this profession – talking, at the same time, about the principal and the principals of the school. Indeed, while the common tasks of school principals are clearly defined in Decree No 89-122 of 24 February 1989, we know that their conditions of exercise are very varied, as the rapporteur pointed out. There is not one school, there are some 44,000: rural schools, urban schools, those of very small size or more than 500 pupils, those located in favored areas or in areas of great poverty. If the function and the missions are the same for all in the texts, they cover in reality very contrasting situations which our work must take into account. Nor should we forget that the profession of principal has evolved over the years. Today, more than yesterday, school principals must interact with the parents of students, represent the institution, accompany national assessments and educational developments. These developments require school principals to have more skills on a day-to-day basis, both material and pedagogic; We must strengthen their place in our institution and give them greater and better-recognized responsibilities. Let us remember all the work undertaken; I have always been convinced that these developments are necessary. Since my arrival, I have made primary school the priority of my ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u14	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u15	Despite the decrease in the number of staff in the grades, 10517 posts were created in the first degree between 2017 and 2019. We will continue to do so in 2020. As early as November 2019, I wanted the project to improve the situation of school principals to be included on the ministry's social agenda. In the painful context of the death of a school principal, Christine Renon, we have launched an unprecedented survey of all school principals, so that everyone can express themselves freely and explain the difficulties they encounter in the exercise of their profession. Two thirds of school principals responded. I thank them for that. If skepticism was to be put on before this survey, the principals were able to show their sense of participation. I wanted nothing to be hidden. We have made public the replies to this questionnaire, which are instructive. Their conclusions, the field dialogue, the various analyses of managers and the social partners lead to the same observation: the conditions for exercising the role of school principal must be changed. In order to achieve concrete measures within the framework of the social agenda, working meetings were held in January and February 2020. This work has been interrupted by the health crisis but will resume as soon as conditions permit. I come to the perspective, which the debate will allow us to draw better. The guidelines are clear, as will be shown by the legislative work and administrative measures I will take in the coming year. The first imperative is to refocus the duties of school principals on their core business, the steering of the school. I am in favour of a review of the landfill regime by incorporating new criteria that exceed the size of the classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u16	It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u18	It's normal, he's on the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u19	It is in this way that we can take into account the diversity of schools. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our second objective is to increase the autonomy of directors to take into account their real level of responsibility. I am in favour of the delegation of competence of the inspectors of national education, in order to increase their room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thirdly, I hope that we will strengthen their human accompaniment – which is neither a right nor a left-wing subject – so that they do not feel isolated in the management of the operation of their school. Let us hope that a real consensus emerges from our discussions, because these are simply human subjects, and are of national interest. That is why I propose that the principle of administrative aid be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u22	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u23	This is the meaning of the development of pre-professionalization but also of the change from 10,000 to 13,000 civic services next year in the first degree. We will be able to find additional means to that end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u25	We are working interdepartmentally to explore all other avenues that could be considered, in the context of the September 2020 re-entry. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I asked for the maximum simplification of their administrative tasks, so as not to unnecessarily exhaust our directors and directors through too many investigations and solicitations from the departmental departments of national education, from the NIS – inspectors of national education – as well as from the municipalities. We know that school principals and principals particularly appreciated the moratorium on administrative investigations at the end of last calendar year. That's why I announced it in November. This simplification must also involve improving our digital management tools. This project, which is under way, will be one of the objectives of the digital education general states to be held in November. These are some of the concrete perspectives that we will present to the social partners and to the elected representatives in the coming months, in the wake of this bill, in order to refocus the profession of school principal on the essential: the steering of each school in responsibility. The rapporteur, you have just heard it, we agree on the essential: the necessary recognition of the role of school principal, greater autonomy, better support for the institution, better consideration of the complexity and diversity of schools in determining landfills. Your explanatory statement is a faithful reading of the various missions and realities of the school principal's profession. It testifies to your great knowledge, from within, of today's public school, and describes the real difficulties of the actors. In particular, I would like to commend your extensive work in concertation throughout the country. This bill is an interesting and desirable vehicle for changing the role and conditions of principals. It sits on the legitimate place we must give them in our institution and prepares the work to be carried out, whether legislative or administrative in nature. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the Government welcomes this bill, which I invite you to adopt widely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u26	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u27	We are considering the bill creating the position of school principal of our colleague Cécile Rilhac and the La République en Marche group. This is a subject that you are well aware of, Madam rapporteur, since you, together with our colleague Valérie Bazin-Malgras, conducted a flash mission in our committee on this subject in 2018. Your proposals had been widely endorsed in the committee. Madam rapporteur, you then continued your discussions with the staff concerned and, following a wide-ranging consultation which the Minister recalled on 12 May, the tabling of this bill, which aims to meet the unquestionable needs and legitimate expectations expressed for many years. The adoption of this fully parliamentary own-initiative text – I welcome it – is even more meaningful in the current period, after the months of health crisis that we have just been through. The principals and principals of the school testified to a total commitment throughout the territory. After organizing the reception of the children of caregivers and staff indispensable to the functioning of our country, they organized the educational continuity. They then applied to the letter the first health protocol and welcomed, only a few days after the official announcement of the deconfinement, the first students. In short, they have been one of the key pillars of managing this unprecedented health crisis. The creation of the post of school principal, which implies recognition of the profession, was already very much expected; It's even more so today. It is intended to transcend political divisions. In 85 per cent of schools, directors assume leadership responsibilities, in addition to teaching students. In practice, however, there is a strong mismatch between their responsibilities and the real powers they have legally to ensure them. However, this is the basis of team leadership: the loop of powers and responsibilities. In the absence of a suitable job, the ill-being at work is inevitable: stress and suffering occur without doubt, as well as the deterioration of the general climate of the establishments. The institution of national education therefore has a duty, for the proper functioning of primary school, to give its full attention to school principals and principals, especially in the context where we have made primary school – as you recalled, Minister – a national priority. In substance, our committee examined Mr Cécile Rilhac's text last week and made substantial changes to it, following the proposals of several political groups, which do not all belong to the majority. We have therefore transcended the divides in committee and I hope that we will do the same here in open session. Several topics are still to be clarified at this session, including the question of whether or not PCAs are maintained by school principals and principals. We will also need to agree on the modalities for simplifying the elections of representatives of pupils' parents, within the general framework of the relief – very welcome – of the administrative burdens of school principals; This is another project that you have already begun, Minister. We will also need to discuss the complementary and judicious arrangements proposed by the Government regarding administrative assistance and the opinion of the academic authority. Finally, we will discuss taking into account the specificities of each school in the discharges of directors and directors, proposed by our rapporteur, whose pragmatism I welcome at the service of the various realities of the territory. Thus, it will be possible to provide for the removal of a discharge threshold which ultimately did not correspond to the wide variety of situations in schools. On important elements – such as the financial aspects of this reform – we are of course waiting for your proposals and commitments, Minister – you have begun to sketch them: for school directors and principals, as for all educational issues, positive law is primarily regulatory. Thank you for your support, for I know that you will not deny the title of the book of Marguerite Léna, student of Paul Ricœur, Honours to the Masters.(Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u28	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u29	Since midday and a half, in the place of President-Édouard-Herriot – right next to this House – and since 14:30 in front of the Department of National Education and Youth – yours, Minister – are gathered the collectives "Educator in anger", "Red pens", "Don't touch my ZEP" and many others. They are calling for the withdrawal of your bill creating the position of school principal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u30	Mine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u31	Yours too, rapporteur. They also express other demands: among them, the denunciation of the contempt they feel, on the part of the Minister of National Education, since the law called "for a school of trust". More recently, by his voice and relay in the national press, the minister stigmatized teachers whom he called "drop-outs" during the crisis of the covid-19. Of course, the reality is quite different: the teachers of the schools – teachers and teachers – and all the other teachers have shown remarkable professionalism, respecting their vocation. They have been creative in making up for the shortcomings of their guardianship. They finally ensured the educational continuity despite the hardships and the heavy toll they also paid. For all this, I thank them very much, as a representative of the grateful nation. Mr Minister, it would have been better, in particular, to be at the rendezvous of your hasty announcements, and to deliver the health protocols of the re-entry of 22 June in time, so that all the actors in the educational community can prepare themselves in complete serenity. Instead, the decree detailing the health protocol to be put in place in our schools was published the same morning of 22 June, the day of the extended re-entry. Understand, ladies and gentlemen, the state of mind in which French teachers wonder if there is a pilot in the flagship of national education. With the implementation of the 2S2C system – sport, health, culture, civicism – we have some elements of answers. Here, as in all other public services, the State is disposing of local authorities or delegating its powers to the private sphere. Finally, for more than ten years, the index point for national education officials has not changed positively in the light of inflation. They were also among the first to do the work, those who faced the pandemic in the front line, those who ensured the continuity of the functioning of our common life: they too must perceive the fruits of our consideration. Finally, they must be able to benefit from an increase in their remuneration. You have decided, in the continuity of your predecessors, to layer the operation of our public services over that of private entities. A public service, whatever it may be, is intended not to be profitable, but simply to serve the public. Its only added value is the well-being of the users and the officials who deploy it. [["That's not true! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we voted today on Mrs Rilhac's bill to create the post of school principal, we would be creating school managers. All trade unions have expressed their opposition to the creation of such a status, whether formal or disguised as "functional employment". The situation of school principals is difficult enough for us legislators not to make decisions contrary to their aspirations. These personnel are now faced with an increasing workload – is that not true, too? The administrative tasks increase every year, while the times of class discharges stagnate or decrease. This situation leads to more and more frequent occupational pathologies. How can we talk about this scourge without mentioning Christine Renon, the school principal who died on September 24, 2019, in her school, leaving a letter to her colleagues and to the academic inspection? She alarmed us about "the fate of all the directors", highlighting the class closures, the administrative tasks, the incessant injunctions, the working time, the lack of equipment, the lack of support and protection of the institution. The health crisis has once again put the school principals under severe strain. The implementation of the health protocol, conflicting information on the compulsory presence of teachers and equally contradictory statements by the Minister of National Education in the media have caused anxiety for the staff. It is for all these reasons that the first concerned ask you to renounce and withdraw your bill. Your desire to establish a school principal status is not new – it is even an old wish of the Minister of National Education: you proposed it, Madam Rapporteur, as part of a report in August 2018. The opposition to the creation of such a status had already been firmly expressed in the trade union ranks. The Minister of National Education consulted with school principals on the same issue and collected over 29,000 responses in November 2019. The directors expressed their opposition, as only 11 per cent of them were in favour. I repeat what I said in committee: this text allows you to return to the burden thanks to a semantic pirouette, since in order not to declare a "status", you transform it into a "function" of school principal. In fact, it's the same! The principal becomes "delegate of academic authority". So he'll be a manager in his school. The 1989 decree provides that the director "represents the institution to the commune and other local authorities". This provision seems to us to be sufficient. If the debates in the committee have made it possible to include in the text that the director is not the superior of his colleagues, you still allow him to make decisions for the operation of the school without the advice of the council of teachers. The Commission's version of the text even reinforces the director's decision-making role. It is now stated that the director "can make the necessary decisions relating to the responsibilities relating to the operation of the school". The council of teachers is therefore no longer mentioned at all and the collegial operation of the primary school is abolished. However, we affirm that for the school to function properly, it is not necessary for its principal to be a decision-maker. The primary school is distinguished by a democratic functioning: the council of teachers brings together all teachers assigned to the school, replacement teachers working in the school and members of the network of specialized aids for pupils in difficulty – RASED – when they have not been abolished because of the lack of positions in the first degree. Decisions are made by the entire team. The school board, too, operates democratically. It brings together, in addition to the teaching staff, the elected representatives of the parents of pupils, the mayor, a municipal councillor and the departmental delegate of education responsible for visiting the school. The national education inspector of the district shall attend meetings in due course. This democratic and collective work system works well – it proved it during confinement. The Minister of National Education even welcomed the pedagogical continuity and mobilization of teachers. This success is due to the horizontal operation of the school, which you want to disorganize. An enlightening example: your proposal for a law provides that the school principal "takes part in the supervision of the education system"; Today, the management staff of the French education system are the management staff of the national education system, the inspection staff and the administrative staff. The principal does not fall into any of these categories. Nor does he work in the administration. By adopting this wording, you treat school principals as managers of national education, i.e. heads of secondary schools. This draws a vertical school that many trade unions denounce and which we do not want. All these elements demonstrate that the director-manager of tomorrow will indeed be an official with special status. Access to this status poses at least two other problems related to the appointment and remuneration of the principal. First of all, your bill provides that the director is appointed by the academic inspector. Currently, the Director is placed on an aptitude list following the advice of the Departmental Joint Administrative Committee; he is then assigned according to the number of points accumulated during his career. A director may be withdrawn from his employment, always after the opinion of the departmental joint administrative committee. This ensures relative transparency in the allocation of posts under the control of trade unions. You said in committee, Madam rapporteur, that this method of recruitment would be retained, but you refused to include it in the law. We can therefore fear that the role of director can be withdrawn in accordance with the will of the academic inspection, which would constitute an unacceptable means of pressure against the directors. If our motion of rejection is not adopted, we will reformulate our proposal, supported by the unions, by amendment. Measures relating to the remuneration of principals are also criticized by trade unions. By creating a specific remuneration scheme, you create, in fact, a separate body of teachers. This is not necessary to increase the remuneration of school principals. Currently, all principals benefit from eight points of new index bonus and a number of index bonus points varying according to the size of the school. They also receive a special hardship allowance for management, which consists of a major share common to all schools and a variable share related to the size of the school. In total, directors receive an additional gross monthly remuneration of between 200 and 400 euros. In the explanatory statement of your bill, you propose an increase in the management allowance from 150 to 300 euros gross per month, which is far below the demands of the school principals! In a note published in 2019 in Regards sur l'éducation and dedicated to France, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) highlighted the low salaries of school principals and school principals. The salary of elementary school principals in France is 15% below the OECD average. With this bill, you do not answer the problem as a whole. A more generous indexation, which would be taken into account in the calculation of current pensions, would seem to us to be more judicious. When you present your text, you insist on the landfills it provides. You are right: these additional landfills echo old demands from management staff. But once again, the provisions you are planning do not allow for an effective response to the demands of those concerned. During the consultation of school principals organised by the Ministry of National Education in November 2019, they indicated that the administrative tasks were those they spent the most time on; They are also among the most difficult, with security issues. It is in order to accomplish all these tasks which, in their view, are not the core of their profession that they ask for more support. The principals want to focus on the collective monitoring of pupils, teamwork and the development of support mechanisms: 83% of them responded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u32	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u33	I am glad that we agree, but that is not what you are proposing. On the contrary, the school discharge is accompanied, for directors, by the introduction of new missions, sometimes even outside the operation of the school, such as those concerning training. Co-ordination missions of the localised inclusive support hubs, priority education networks, strengthened priority education networks or inter-communal pedagogical clusters – RPI – are entrusted to them while they are normally the responsibility of other national education staff: the national education inspector, the teacher referring to the schooling of disabled pupils or the priority education network coordinator – REP. Finally, in exchange for a total classroom discharge, managers will see their workload increase considerably, while other staff may be deprived of their duties. Your bill runs counter to the demands of industry professionals. This ineptitude will also have the effect of aggravating territorial inequalities considerably. Indeed, the complete discharge of teaching for principals will apply only in schools with a minimum of eight classes: there will therefore be no discharge in the smallest structures. Less than 10% of Ariège's schools will be affected – so will many other departments with similar demographics and sociology. 75 per cent of schools throughout the country will be excluded from the scheme. You would like to encourage the secondment of staff, particularly administrative staff, from municipalities to schools. However, rural schools are often located in communes that face major difficulties and have absolutely no possibility – neither financial nor physical – to proceed with this delegation, simply because they do not even have sufficient administrative staff for their own operation – and, of course, even less janitorial staff. This situation is worsening from year to year as a result of the Government's policy of declining allocations as soon as it comes to power. [[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] Here, as in other aspects of your bill, you have taken the city of Paris as an educational model. Madam rapporteur, if 90% of the municipalities in our country had 10% of the financial, structural and human resources of the city of Paris, the school of the Republic would do much better! It is not a question of opposing the City of Light, our superb capital, to the rest of the country, but of telling you that there exists a life beyond the Paris ring road and, by extension, beyond the peripherals of the French metropolises. I have already said in committee that it is hypocritical to ask the municipalities to provide staff to schools when the territorial public employment has been reduced and the organization of community services has been weakened by the abolition of 200,000 assisted contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u34	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u35	You submit to us a wasteful and useless text, which will worsen the bill between our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u36	Your time has expired, Mr. Larive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion of rejection. Let's show school principals that the representatives of the nation are able to hear them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u38	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u39	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously not vote in favour of this motion of rejection because we must now open the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - "Oh! » on several benches of the LR group]] Mr. Larive has at least the merit of consistency and consistency in his criticism of the Government, but the Government's policy, which we support, is also consistent and consistent. In fact, Minister, fortunately we have you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u40	Smells like maroquin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u41	For a long time now, at the Ministry of National Education, we have been waiting for a personality of your own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u42	Search for State Secretariat desperately!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I heard you say a few days ago about the school and the Republic, and I can assure you of the confidence that our group gives you. As you said, the Republic is a compass and needs to be defended. By valuing the role of school directors and principals today, we are also defending a certain idea of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u44	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u45	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left shares the demands expressed by our colleague Michel Larive on school directors and principals – the second is more numerous than the former. We defended them ourselves in committee. However, we believe – perhaps wrongly – that it will still be possible to make further progress in reviewing the articles. The health crisis has shown how difficult it is to fulfil this role in a school, given the workload and conflicting injunctions received. In this post-sanitary crisis period, it is necessary for us to debate this subject, including in a confrontational way. We also want to respond to the demands of the directors and to Christine Renon's call for help during her suicide last year. As you will have understood and as I shall say earlier, we intend to abstain on this bill at the present time; That is why we will abstain on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u46	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u47	The subject of school management was put on the forefront by the dramatic suicide of a principal last September. In addition, the recent confinement has highlighted the essential role of school principals, both in the organisation of the distance school and in the application of the health protocol. We have been talking about this issue for over 20 years. It represents a broader element of the social agenda of the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u48	That's no reason to hurt him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u49	This bill, defended by Cécile Rilhac and my colleagues in the La République en marche group, affirms and complements the principal's essential tasks. To refuse to consider this text by voting on a motion to reject it beforehand would be to deprive ourselves of the substantive work that has been done for many months. It would be a refusal to move forward on this important issue by depriving itself of the essential contributions of this bill: a real recognition of the role of school principal, the upgrading and acceleration of careers, the sustainability of a reference, positive developments in administrative assistance and the reduction of tasks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Because this bill provides concrete answers to the question of the recognition of the role of school principal without creating a superior status, because it represents a real step forward in terms of the responsibility of directors, the LaREM Group will obviously vote against this motion of rejection in order to move forward in the discussion, exchange and construction of this text which has been expected for many years – too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u50	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u51	Mr Larive, we have listened well to your arguments, but at the risk of disappointing you, we do not share your vision of how the school works. The group Les Républicains is rather sensitive to the arguments of the OECD's Directorate of Education, which has been advising France for several years to review the governance of first-degree institutions. A school principal's status is necessary to promote evaluation and autonomy, repeats Éric Charbonnier, a specialist in these subjects at the OECD. We agree with you, Mr. Larive, when you note the low salaries of French principals. Indeed, the difference in remuneration between a principal and an assistant professor is 7%: this difference is the smallest in the OECD, where it averages 41%. However, this bill has the merit of improving the remuneration of principals. The Republicans Group also believes that school management is a full-fledged profession that requires hourly discharges, a mechanism that this bill improves. The principal will not have the status of head of school but will have to be the true pedagogical leader of his school. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] We will have an opportunity to exchange arguments during the debates. We will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u52	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u53	MODEM will simply point out a profound contradiction in Mr Larive's speech, which insists on the urgency of meeting the legitimate expectations of school principals – we agree with him on this diagnosis – but persists in refusing this very interesting and desirable legislative vehicle, as the Minister has pointed out. On the other hand, the term manager seems to us to be a hyperbole and an ideological view of things. We will therefore, of course, vote against this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u55	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u56	We have noted other contradictions than that mentioned by our colleague Bannier. The social agenda, which has been under way since the end of 2019, has been stopped: you, Minister, have referred to the health crisis to explain to us that the consultation will resume as soon as possible; But now you are legislating, even though there is a need to continue the dialogue with the national education staff, particularly those in management. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We also made proposals during the committee examination. The question for us is to continue this work by making us the spokespersons for all those school directors who can't and are not fooled: in its present state, the bill is not likely to significantly improve their daily lives. Because it wants to continue to make their voices heard, the Socialist Group will abstain on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u57	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u58	While this text does not cover a number of the problems faced by school directors and principals, such as the compensation of the teaching burden, this situation arises from the separation of the fields of law and the regulations specific to the Fifth Republic. This text is in line with an improvement in the day-to-day lives of school principals, if only by finally allowing us to debate the subject. I believe that, beyond our differences of opinion, Parliament cannot avoid this debate. For all these reasons, the independent IDU group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u60	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u61	The motion of rejection that our colleagues in the FI Group have just put before us finally reflects the complexity of the subject of school principals – a subject on which, it must be said, we have a great deal to move forward as we approach it very regularly. We share many of the concerns expressed by this motion. The Libertés et Territoires Group has approached this text with great caution, because we did not want it to give school principals any hierarchical superiority, which would in no way solve the difficulties they face. That solution had already been ruled out, and that was so much better. Since then, a consultation has been conducted which has confirmed the needs of school principals. It is a question of giving them more resources and time to carry out their missions. There are therefore several aspects on which it is useful and important to move forward: the upgrading of the management allowance, the increase in landfills, the provision of administrative aid, provided that it is taken over by the State and not by the municipalities. The creation of a functional job, which the majority are proposing to us today, will not solve the problem of lack of attractiveness, recognition and resources. The text addresses very little of the subjects that we consider essential and takes insufficient account of small communes and rural schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u62	And the RPI!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u63	Despite these reservations, we believe it is important to go to the end of the debate, hoping that it will allow us to make progress. Therefore, our group will abstain on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u64	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u65	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] As my colleague Michel Larive has just pointed out, the consultation you have initiated, Minister, indicates that 90% of first-degree teachers are standing up against such a reform...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u67	You can always challenge these results, they are those of the consultation! First, it introduces a hierarchical relationship which is absolutely not desired by first-degree educational staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u68	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u69	Second, it does not provide any of the answers requested by the principals, because, as the signs put forward by the union and citizen collectives indicated, I too had the opportunity to greet this afternoon: "leading a school is animating a team, not ordering it"; "live the college leadership"; "A dirlo is not a kapo". These were the slogans they had written in chalk on their signs, with the imagination and creativity we know them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u70	Let's not mix it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u71	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u72	Bournazel, this bill indeed reflects a vision of the school, which is that of the minister but – he knows it very well – which is not ours, as our vision of society differs from his. This idea you're making of school, we condemn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u73	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u74	The word is to the slingers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, as you know, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group has welcomed with reservation the bill we are studying this afternoon. However, we would like to acknowledge the quality and richness of the Committee's debates and the substantive work of the rapporteur. Some of our reservations have been heard, for example on article 5 concerning the election of representatives of the parents of pupils. We want to go further, in particular on these two structuring points: discharge time and administrative assistance – we will have the opportunity to return to it. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u76	In the general debate, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u77	[[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] The epidemic has more than ever highlighted the primary role of school directors in the education system. In the crisis that our country is facing, they form a solid foundation on which we can rely. I have a special thought for all the directors and directors of schools in the 18th arrondissement, in particular schools in priority education areas and in reinforced priority education areas, which each day help those who have less social and cultural capital at the beginning: in this too they constitute an essential foundation of our republic. In the front line to manage school closures and distance learning, school principals have been able to cope with the urgency of pedagogical continuity. Their work extended far beyond their usual duties when they had to adapt in an emergency, coordinate actions with their colleagues, maintain ties with families and communities, and provide distance education. During the gradual resumption, they had to apply a strict health protocol in a particularly difficult context, both for teachers and for students and their parents, showing a sense of commitment and public interest that we can be proud of. Since the beginning of the week, the return to school is mandatory for all our children. With the help of a reduced health protocol, school principals have been able to prepare for the return to school and manage the new organization involved. To say that school principals have a lot of responsibilities is an understatement: the management of a school is a full-time commitment. However, the vast majority of school principals are teachers who carry out this mission in addition to their teaching responsibilities, without any real decision-making power. In order to carry out their tasks properly, they lack time and adequate resources, on the one hand, and a function recognized as such. This situation naturally generates tensions, a feeling of impotence or even fatigue, so hard to attract younger generations – some positions remain vacant. It is therefore necessary to go further by improving the meaning of this profession. This text calls on us to question the definition and recognition of their missions. I therefore welcome the intention of this bill to affirm the status of the school principal both in terms of teaching and in terms of daily life. One of the lessons we have learned from the crisis is that in the event of serious malfunctions or endangering people, the school principal is the first person to make decisions, often in an emergency, to adapt the protocols to the reality of the field. This bill will allow the directors to take the necessary steps to ensure the proper functioning and safety of the property and persons in its establishment. It is thus essential to include in the marble of the law the tasks relating to the function, which will legitimize their status with their teaching team and with the parents of pupils of whom they are the first contact. I should like to point out that the work we have done in the committee in good intelligence has made it possible to make useful changes and clarifications on two points. The first concerns the functional employment of the school principal, whose committee has removed the mobility requirement and the fixed duration, as we asked – I thank all the Commissioners, especially the President and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u78	In the sense of the hair, huh?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u79	The reshaping is coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u80	It takes time to unite a team and a project, impose its brand, work and perfect an educational project. The second topic is the election of representatives of pupils' parents. This is an important time of school democracy, which we have preserved in all cases, while proposing an experiment of electronic voting on the basis of volunteerism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party therefore considers that this bill is in the right direction by valuing the status of school principal and by planning to provide them with solid prior training. Pillars of national education, they ensure the well-being of all and the success of everyone. It is important that the law gives them greater legitimacy, commensurate with their tasks, and that is why we can honour ourselves to vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u81	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and EDS groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] We are now considering a bill to create the position of school principal. You will allow me to observe first of all that if we do not always agree on inclusive writing, the title of this bill sounds strangely in the ears of each and every one of us when today less than half of those who act as director are men. I pay tribute to the many directors who have come across me and who do not feel quite represented by this title! This bill comes after the ministry's consultation following Christine Renon's suicide in Pantin. For too many years, school principals and principals have been denouncing the deterioration of working conditions, which has gradually led to a loss of the meaning of their profession. The workload has been increasing since the 2000s: existing tasks are increasing and new ones are emerging. Ms. Renon said that the injunctions addressed to directors and directors were often contradictory. Yet their compensation has not been improved for many years. We therefore appreciate the importance of significantly improving the working conditions of school principals. Moreover, as soon as the confinement and closure of schools were announced, the directors and directors continued to be at the front to ensure the pedagogical continuity and the link between the parents and the teachers, and then the resumption of the school – which some had never left, if only to accommodate the children of caregivers – in conditions that were sometimes untenable. Again, there have been many conflicting injunctions. While we are therefore pleased to be able to discuss this subject in this Chamber, we also consider that there are major gaps in this text, in particular on the question of landfills, allowances, the meaning to be given to this function and the fact that the greatest vagueness remains: you have certainly taken into account the fact that the directors did not wish to be placed in a hierarchical position vis-à-vis the teachers, but the text reintroduced it with small touches. As far as the text itself is concerned, the imprecise wording of Article 1e r does not allow the democratic functioning of schools in France – or at least it does not allow it – to be preserved, whereas we sometimes see with surprise how democracy is present in this space, when it can be so badly dealt with in the rest of society. We therefore do not wish to weaken it even further with a text which does not mention enough the role of the council of teachers, which is so central in schools. Indeed, the French particularity of school management finds its source in the democratic functioning of this council, created in 1908 in order to allow a sharing of power on pedagogical issues and to ensure educational freedom. All of the government's attempts to damage this model have, moreover, led to the lifting of shields in the profession, as well as among parents. The French school does not recognize small chefs; the authority and credibility of the Director comes from his/her peer-to-peer status. In this connection, I would like to recall that the last consultation concluded on the refusal of school teachers to give the school principal the status of superior, with some of the teachers concerned performing this function themselves. On the other hand... – This is not to silence you, ladies and gentlemen of the LR Group, but I am sorry to have to tell you that it is difficult to speak in this noise. Article 2 establishes a chain of command ranging from DASEN, the academic director of the national education services, to the heart of the school, by proposing the creation of functional jobs. It is good that we have been able to make amendments in committee correcting the unstable nature of this mechanism, but we are not yet at the end of the road: by placing at the head of the schools a kind of manager chosen by the hierarchy, we will certainly scratch the collegial functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u83	Your time has expired. Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u84	For all these reasons and for many others that I will mention later, as it stands, the GDR Group will abstain from this text. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Madam President, I would have preferred you to ensure silence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u85	It starts badly, very bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u86	It seems to me that silence reigns. Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u87	It is with great pleasure that I am speaking before you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move. We are about to discuss a bill that is essential to our school, and that is the role of school principal and finally gives it its full place. We owe it to those concerned! The school principal's place in our public policies is central. The school principal must ensure the proper functioning of his school, the relationship with the parents of the pupils, the coordination between the teachers, the relations with the inspector of national education and with the municipality... in short, everything relating to his institution. Even though he is at the centre of the education system and is responsible for everything, the school principal does not decide anything. Legally, his position does not exist: he is a teacher in charge of management. Creating a function means recognizing the role of school principals and their specificities. That is the whole meaning of the bill that we have the honour to debate today. It is the result of a long consultation process led by parliamentarians. Indeed, since 2018 and the drafting of a report with Mrs Bazin-Malgras – which I welcome – the rapporteur has been working tirelessly on this subject. I also thank my colleagues in the La République on the move, some of whom are themselves former school principals, for their involvement. This important work of parliamentarians is complementary to that carried out by the Ministry of National Education. Indeed, Minister, you have had the opportunity to mention the principals here on numerous occasions, and you have repeatedly expressed your willingness to improve their daily lives on a sustainable basis. Similarly, you have always insisted on the need to listen to the directors in order to respond to their requests and take the pulse of the field. We welcome your ministry's initiative in 2019 to launch a consultation on this issue, following a tragic event that has marked us all for a long time. This consultation was a great success, which again demonstrates the importance of this issue. It allows three central demands of school principals to emerge: the need to reduce their workload, the need for human reinforcements and the desire to benefit from stronger training. It is essential to find ways to make this profession attractive again because, let us not forget, we work every year to find teachers who want to be in charge of management. The work of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has already made significant progress in this area, and I take this opportunity to welcome the constructive spirit shown by all the political groups during our discussions last Wednesday. I am sure that we will be able to continue our discussions today in this same spirit, with the common desire to improve the daily lives of school principals. The work in committee has, I hope, made it possible to clarify things and to reassure ourselves that we want to create a real role as school principal without disrupting the unique organisation of our schools. Our discussions in the Chamber will make it possible to continue these improvements. The examination of the text in committee also allowed for a lengthy exchange on Article 5, concerning the single list in the elections of parents of pupils. If we understand the rapporteur's initial will, we also welcome her amendment: it meets the democratic requirement, with which we cannot compromise, while at the same time relieving school principals. Although the bill responds to the request for easing of duties and for the recognition of directors, we must, together, go further with regard to administrative assistance, a subject whose work in committee has shown its central place. The consideration of the text in open session will, we hope, allow us to move forward on this item. Training is also an important subject, and we will have the pleasure of discussing it today. The proposal for a law must not stop at the recognition of the role of school principal; It must provide for quality initial and in-service training adapted to the needs of school principals, in order to prepare them for their many specific tasks. Our parliamentary group will propose an amendment to that effect. Finally, whether they are located in rural communes, in the neighbourhoods covered by the city's policy or in the major cities, all the schools in France are different: the geographical disparities are added, for some of them, to the care of children with specific needs or forms of organisation specific to each institution. The system of discharge of school principals must reflect this diversity: it must take into account the specificities. We will support an amendment by the rapporteur to that effect. This new provision will meet the expectations of directors across the country, as well as the requests of all parliamentary groups on this subject. The development of this bill in open session, thanks to the amendments of the Government, the rapporteur and all the deputies, will make it possible to respond even more to the needs of school principals. In conclusion, the Group of the Republic on the move is pleased to be able to discuss this very important topic...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u88	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and find answers collectively to this question, a central issue for today's and tomorrow's school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u90	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u91	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u92	In the summer of 2018, the rapporteur and I conducted a flash mission on school principals. On this occasion and at the invitation of the hearings, we were able to see the profound discomfort felt by these key players in the educational community. Without sufficient institutional recognition and limited resources, they are under the weight of the multiple and time-consuming tasks that haunt their daily lives. This has led us to make proposals, which have succeeded in reaching consensus among the actors in national education. Today, we are studying a bill that departs in different points from these recommendations and proposes an incomplete and imperfect mechanism. This mechanism is incomplete, since it deals with a matter which is essentially within the regulatory power. The creation of a statute for school principals, the main proposal of the flash mission, is thus the responsibility of the Minister of National Education, as well as the increase in the remuneration of school principals, the creation of a recruitment competition and the validation of the experience acquired, which were also included in our recommendations of summer 2018. What will you do, Minister, on these various points? The text also proposes complete teaching discharges from eight classes while the flash mission offered it from ten classes. Apart from the fact that school principals want to maintain even a tenuous link with teaching, this measure seems too ambitious because it requires 6,000 full-time equivalents that the ministry is not able to provide – I refer you to the hearing of the Director General of School Education, DGESCO, two weeks ago. What is your position on this point, Minister? I would point out that the text does not say anything about the increase in landfills in schools of less than eight classes, whereas that is what is mainly expected. The overwhelming majority of schools are thus kept away from this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u94	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u95	But this can be explained by the fact that educational landfills, like many other provisions, fall within the regulatory area – at the risk of inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u97	Minister, do you agree to be removed from these prerogatives or do you object to inadmissibility under section 41 of the Constitution? The bill also allows school principals to combine with their duties the responsibility for organising extracurricular time, although they do not want it. They already have too many tasks to do so that we don't come to add to their daily lives! It also plans to place the burden of administrative aid, long awaited by school principals, on local authorities by offering them a possibility which they will not legitimately seize. It is up to the State authorities to make available administrative aid for all schools, without any disparity between the territories, as we proposed on the occasion of the flash mission, the conclusions of which are again contradicted. Finally, article 5 reproduces a provision that I had proposed in autumn 2018, in the continuity of the work of the flash mission, aimed at simplifying the procedure for the election of representatives of parents of pupils on school boards. However, this article has been amended in such a way that, in the case of a single list, the election is carried out by electronic means. But if this is really a simplification, why not open this possibility in the presence of several lists and therefore for all schools? This bill is moving in the right direction, as it is true that there is a need to improve the recognition of school principals. But we are entitled to question all the points I have raised, and the assumption of inadmissibility under Article 41 of the Constitution remains to be ruled out. If the examination in committee has made it possible to improve the text, it is necessary to amend it again substantially. Members of the Republican Group have a constructive approach and have therefore tabled many amendments in order to really improve the day-to-day lives of school principals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will conclude my speech with a sustained tribute to Christine Renon, principal of school in Pantin, who died in her school, following the many insurmountable difficulties she faced in the exercise of her profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u98	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u99	Many reports in recent years have addressed the issue of the school principal's status. What matters above all, it seems, is less the issue of status – many teachers in schools remain committed to the principle of primus inter pares, the current organisation being rather unchallenged and having proved its effectiveness – than the improvement of the working conditions of school principals. The administrative burden, as everywhere, has increased, sometimes turning to absurdity, and, in a context where the recruitment of school teachers remains difficult in some territories, applications for the post of director are not legion. It is often still young recruits who stick to it, not necessarily by choice and after very short training. There is therefore an urgent need to better recognize the specific nature of the role of school principal in view of the important responsibilities of these indispensable organizers of school life. This bill outlines concrete prospects for improvement: delegation of academic authority and creation of a functional job with accelerated promotion and better compensation, discharge beyond a threshold of eight classes, termination of the constraints related to complementary educational activities, often carried out during the meridian break, creation of a specific reference post for school principals within the departmental departments, assistance in concierge or administrative by agreement with the community and administrative simplifications concerning the parental elections and the famous PPMS. The work in committee has made it possible to improve its drafting but also to ask very important questions: what concrete form should be taken of the administrative or logistical assistance provided to school principals? How can the function be established while respecting the wishes of the directors in place who do not all wish to have mobility at regular intervals in the same way as college directors? Can discharges be accentuated, an effective lever to relieve directors, without putting students in trouble, while the goal of doubling classes requires a stronger front-line presence? In addition to the legislative process and the improvements that we are going to vote for, we have reminded the committee that it will also be necessary, at the level of the rectorates, to simplify the procedures as much as possible, so that the paperwork will intrude much less on the principal's front-line work: the direct link he has with the families and with his students. The members of the MODEM Group will be attentive to the conclusions of the mission which must lead to an improvement in the medical monitoring of staff, which so far shines by its absence. The teachers of France take a medical examination at the time of recruitment, then: nothing. Yet the burn-out situations related to administrative overload, the solitude of the function, the tangles between orders from the institution, parents, and the community deserve attention. I have a thought, of course, about Christine Renon whose letter has touched many French. The MODEM and related groups would therefore like to see further consultation with the Ministry and the trade union organisations. The challenge is simple: to help our principals first and foremost to regain the heart of the profession they have chosen: to look after the children and to organize the life of the school for the benefit of them. We will therefore vote for the text and hope that solutions will be found on the subjects still under discussion, which must be realistic and be able to be implemented quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We also thank the principals at the end of the school year because the health crisis has put them to the test and we can be proud of their investment to help children and families not to lose foot with the school, the foundation of equal opportunities. I take the words of Albert Camus to assure the teachers that their efforts, their work and the generous heart they put there will always be alive in one of their little schoolgirls who, despite their age, will not cease to be their grateful student.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u100	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u101	School is the place to prepare for the future, it is a collective project for the development of our children; It is also a major part of the daily life of our communes. The place of school directors – and I take the liberty, today, to talk about the directors – between the hierarchical authority of the NIS to whom they are accountable for any decision, and the dependence on the elected representatives of the commune, even if everything is going best, has long been a sensitive subject. The question is to give school directors, who almost entirely do not want a specific status and remain very attached to the notion of collective, this power to act in an increasingly tense context, and the legitimacy to represent the institution with families and in the territory. Every day, new tasks are assigned to them in order to take care of the problems that are of concern to society: better integration of students with social difficulties, inclusion of pupils with disabilities, stronger link with families, articulation of solar and extracurricular time... The conditions for the exercise of the guidelines have deteriorated without substantive answers. The time and means given to those who accept this responsibility are not equal to the recognition that we owe them. I would like to thank them for their commitment. Dramatic episodes have accelerated the ministry's social agenda and, at the end of 2019, the ministry launched a consultation with staff representatives. However, the health crisis has put a brake on consultation. Our colleagues wanted national representation to take up this issue, and we would like to stress their intention to move the lines; But today, while the guidelines are struggling to adapt to very complex situations of school renewal, we are not convinced of the effectiveness of this text, several of which are more of a regulatory rather than a legislative area, opening the door to conflicting interpretations in implementing decrees. We agree with the statement in the explanatory memorandum; But, despite the clarifications that have been made in committee, no satisfactory answer has yet been given to the question of the means necessary for the ambition of such a reform. What school directors are asking for, first of all, is time, human help to unload them, adapted training, in a word: the upgrading of their profession. Let me take the example of my department. The smallest of our colleges has, for 150 students, 9 supervisory staff in more than twenty teachers. How many adults for the same number of students in a school of the same size?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u102	Excellent question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u103	Seven or eight teachers in schools and according to the means of the municipality, some specialized territorial agents of kindergartens – ATSEM – and fewer and fewer RASED staff. An example to point out that this bill is only anecdotally addressed to schools in our small communes. In Ardèche, where 58 per cent of schools do not have weekly discharges, the text would cover only 4 per cent of schools, or 7 out of 291. The same applies to the administrative aid requested by the directors: it cannot be left to the municipalities alone – with the abolition of assisted jobs, it is the directors who have been entrusted with additional tasks. It is therefore essential to make clear the State's commitment to schools, as is done for colleges and high schools, by financing secretarial posts, for example, or by making permanent compensation for expenses for municipalities. Strengthening administrative assistance is a recurrent and strong demand for staff, but this cannot be done at the expense of territorial equity: small municipalities must be able, as well as others, to provide the best conditions for learning for children. A supply of digital tools, which are essential to the fulfilment of their mission, is also essential. The debate in committee strengthened the prerogatives of the directors while clarifying the contours of functional employment which could raise the risk of drifts. The initial wording concerning the delegation of the academic authority was too vague; It has also been specified. The index bonus in careers and allowances and bonuses must be increased and simplified, but this is primarily a matter of negotiation with the social partners. We also have a few regrets about discharge times: the amount of work devoted to these responsibilities is not purely mathematical, some tasks are incompressible and some periods in the school year are more burdensome than others. It is therefore reasonable to consider landfills that are not necessarily correlated with the number of classes but with the size and needs of schools. The question of training is also fundamental. We need to ask ourselves about the lack of attractiveness for this function. Training is obviously an element of response: training accessible to all and adapted to reality. Indeed, teachers of schools with little seniority, directors already in office or in office, and they are very many, must be able to access it without it being a prerequisite for enrolment on the aptitude list. We would also like to stress the entirely voluntary nature of the participation of the directors in an extracurricular mission, so that these times are thought in complementarity. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Although we welcome the fact that a number of our proposals have been taken up by the rapporteur, we would obviously have liked this text to be up to its ambitions: to give schools the necessary resources for the improvements that you call for. That is why the Socialist and related group will most likely abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u104	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u105	While the principal is an indispensable link in our educational system, essential to the indispensable trust that must unite the various members of the educational community, while he takes on tasks as varied as time-consuming, while he is the pilot of his school, his function is not recognized. I thank you, the rapporteur, for allowing us, through your bill, to debate this important subject for our School – I insist on this capital. Directors first and foremost want more time and autonomy to carry out their essential tasks in the service of their school and thus in the service of the success of their students; That is what must be at the heart of our reflections. They must be able to animate the institution, receive parents, work with the municipalities and set up projects with the school board and the teaching team, regardless of the size of the institution and where it is located – let's not forget our small schools, our rural schools! During the review of the law for a school of trust, many of us asked for a real recognition of the role of school principal and the means owed to him. You then told us, minister, that you were going to make changes in this area, insisting that the status is not an end in itself but that "the real subject is that of the conditions for exercising the role of school principal" – an idea that I fully share and shared by the directors and directors. I would add that it is time to listen and understand those who, every day, do not count on their efforts to make the school of the Republic live, and which I thank today for all the work done, often with great passion, despite the difficulties encountered. Directors are faced with an increased workload, a lack of legitimacy in decision-making, but also a lack of recognition of both their remuneration and career development. Unfortunately, we will not be able to discuss these issues in the regulatory field today, nor will we be able to act directly; We must measure our frustration! Let us hope that the creation of the position of principal will lead to a better recognition of our directors. As far as educational discharges are concerned, we believe that each school principal should be given an ex officio discharge of varying duration, of course. The text presented deals only with schools of more than eight classes, leaving the majority of French schools aside. Unfortunately, the discharge thresholds also fall within the regulatory area; However, we will defend an amendment to review the criteria for discharges. In order to effectively free up time for school principals, it is therefore possible to either increase educational discharges or provide administrative assistance. On this second point, we insist: it is absolutely necessary that this aid be granted by the State and not by the local authorities. If such assistance were to depend on the financial capacity of the community concerned, this would lead to a breach of equality in the working conditions of school principals. The discussions in the committee were fruitful and the redrafting of the articles that raised the most fears is likely to reassure. I am thinking in particular of Article 2 on functional employment and Article 5 which provides for the possibility for departments to experiment with the election of parents of pupils to the school board by electronic means in case of a single list. This new proposal seems to me a good compromise, allowing us to experiment with the simplification of these elections. Minister, you are fully aware of the importance of the first degree, as we saw during the review of the law for a school of trust. You know the important role of the principal. Today, in France, 4000 director posts are vacant. Many directors make the choice, after a few years, to return to a teaching position – even if all directors continue to teach – and others feel destitute in the face of an untenable situation that sometimes leads to tragedies like those we have experienced recently. As you know, directors should be given the means they need to fully and calmly assume their duties in the service of our school, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u106	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u107	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The IDU and Independent Group considers that, while the scope of the regulatory area prevents us from taking tangible and direct measures in favour of school principals, this bill represents a step towards improving their working conditions; That's why he'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u108	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u109	The situation of school principals is a regular one for our discussions, because we know that it is not satisfactory, but we are still able to provide adequate answers. Last year, we again addressed this issue in the context of the review of the confidence school bill. Fortunately, at the time, the Joint Joint Committee had removed the provision introduced in the Senate to create a hierarchical status. Let us say from the outset: giving such a status to principals would in no way solve the difficulties they face on a daily basis. Indeed, the ill-being experienced by some of them reflects the lack of recognition for them, even though their tasks and workload are substantial. This lack of recognition is expressed, on the one hand, by the weakness of their management allowance and, on the other hand, by the lack of resources and time available for them to carry out their tasks. This ill-being sometimes ends in drama, such as the suicide of Christine Renon, director of a preschool in Pantin, which occurred in September 2019. The letter she had left pointed precisely to her workload, the absurdity of administrative tasks and finally the loss of sense of her profession. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. The evidence is that the attractiveness of the position weakens from year to year: the Senate report by our colleagues Max Brisson and Françoise Laborde indicates that nearly 4000 director positions are vacant every year. School principals play a key role and assume ever-increasing missions. The health crisis of the covid -19 proved it again. Many tell us about the enormous complexity of the organisation of the pedagogical continuity, as after that of the reception and the courses, with health rules almost impossible to comply with. In my department, La Mayenne, 99 directors referred their suffering to the committee on hygiene, safety and working conditions – CHSCT – last May. It is therefore little to say that there is an urgent need to respond to their difficulties. However, it is very reserved that the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the provisions of this bill. First, we question the creation of a functional job in the form of a delegation of academic authority. The profession is committed to working as a team, and many do not want the creation of a status comparable to that of secondary school heads. They are also related to cumulation with work in the classroom. It was therefore important to make it clear that there was no such hierarchical status, which would undermine the democratic and deliberative functioning of schools. It should also be pointed out that functional employment did not entail a mobility requirement and was not allocated for a fixed period of time, which would run counter to the stability required for the management of a school. But creating a functional job will not solve the problem of lack of time and resources: it is essential to upgrade the management allowance and increase the discharges. These matters are of a regulatory nature, but it is important that we move forward on the issue of discharge times, in particular by setting new criteria for assessment. For example, the number of pupils was mentioned in the committee. The directors, I insist, do not want a statute, but administrative assistance. Since the abolition of assisted jobs, town halls are often unable to afford to offer them. Like many, we regret that Article 4 places the financial burden of this aid on the local community: this will not put an end to territorial inequalities, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u110	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u111	Finally, there is a strong fear that this text will not solve the difficulties faced by directors, especially since it deals only anecdotally with priority issues: the resources devoted, the landfills, but also the specificities of small municipalities and rural schools. Our group also questions the timing of the majority, as consultations with staff representatives, interrupted by the epidemic of covid-19, are still under way. It is our sincere hope that this bill does not mask the cessation of this ongoing consultation, which is why we could not vote on it, because other aspects still need to be addressed in order to improve the working conditions of school principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u112	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u113	The suicides of Christine Renon and recently of Bruno Delbecq shed a tragic light on the working conditions of the school directors. These conditions, the flash mission of November 2018, which then proposed the creation of a statute, also mentioned this: a growing bureaucratization of the profession, aggravated by the obsession for evaluations and controls; insufficient discharge hours; low remuneration for the personal commitment required by the function. These grievances are legitimate and it is good to legislate. However, it is difficult to understand how this bill creating the role of school principal meets the expectations and concerns of the sector. In our view, as it stands, it is rather like an umpteenth provocation, in the words of the trade union SNUDI-FO – Unified National Union of Directors, Teachers and Teachers of Public Education Schools-Worker Force. Indeed, during the debate on the law for the school of trust, which proposed the creation of public institutions of basic knowledge – EPSF – the idea of giving directors a status or at least hierarchical relations with the teaching teams had raised a shield of staff. Chassed by the door, this idea returns here from the window, against the will of all teachers' unions. Of course, this proposal for a law indirectly avoids the term status. Of course, tough amendments, voted in committee, try to dispel the confusion, removing any reference to hierarchy. But new amendments now exempt the directors from the advice of the council of teachers, which is no longer even mentioned; and the directors or directors remain vested with academic authority over their fellow teachers. Then understand who can: how to be a decision-maker and delegate of the academic authority without being held hierarchically responsible? But the trick doesn't stop there. If you unload the directors from eight classes, which we welcome, it is to better entrust them with additional tasks, now carried out by others – and this without any word on the aid to the processing of the paperwork that is assigning them, except to open up the possibility of administrative aids to the goodwill of the communities, according to what specifics. Nor did there be any mention of school principals of less than eight classes – 75% of schools – which gave rise to fears of returning to the EPSFs, with directors attached to the college. These are the concerns raised by the bill. Finally, what about the democratic decline in the place of the parents of pupils whose contribution was seen in the context of the crisis of the covid-19? Without the protests to the left and to the right of the House, they would simply be deprived of an election in the event of a single list. However, we managed to save an electronic vote. This proposal does not address the problems of school principals. Remember the contents of Christine Renon's mail, which you were many to quote. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As it stands, the text above all reflects your vision of the school: not an active space of democracy, based on collegiality and inclusion, but a miniature company, with its procession of small chefs and managerial practices. This bill builds the last link of a vertical and authoritarian organization that transforms the directors, these professionals of the pedagogy and the relationship with parents and partners, of which Béatrice Descamps has described the missions well, into a belt of transmission of ministerial instructions. That is why the La France insoumée group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u114	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u115	We are here, at the invitation of our colleague Cécile Rilhac, to lay a foundation stone to the construction of a true recognition of the role of school principal. This bill aims to improve the working conditions of the directors and directors of our 44902 schools by setting four objectives: recognition, simplification, support and upgrading. As the health crisis has just demonstrated, the task of school principals is difficult. On their shoulders are many responsibilities, defined in the circular of 1 December 2014: they animate the teaching team, ensure the smooth running of teachings and pedagogical continuity, welcome new teachers, coordinate the work of teachers, make the link with partners of extracurricular time for a coherence of education at the level of a territory. As a result, they have been fully engaged since 11 May. They are responsible for the proper conduct of the teachings. As far as possible, they ensure respect – sometimes illusory – for barrier gestures. They are responsible for relations with the parents of students and for the follow-up of dropouts. They embody our republican school, tested by the covid-19. Principals, never decision-makers, do not have a status that recognizes their specific tasks and responsibilities. This text therefore proposes to improve their condition by means of several provisions designed to strengthen them in a function which must be, first of all, that of management: full discharge to those who work in large establishments, strengthening their power of initiative, creation of referents in academy inspections, or administrative support. While the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group had carefully welcomed the bill, the quality of the debates in committee – and this is not a mere politeness towards our colleague Mrs Rilhac – as the improvements made to the text change our position on this text. The initial wording of Article 5, concerning the election of parents of pupils, seemed inappropriate to us: simplification and easing of tasks cannot have as a corollary the weakening of the democratic life of the school. We therefore welcome the change made in committee, but we want to go beyond experimentation: we want to leave schools free of their choice regarding the election of representatives of the parents of pupils. They could then rely on the will of the school boards and the parents of the students, and, above all, on how to facilitate participation in the vote, possibly through the use of electronic voting. On the other hand, despite the improvements made in committee, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group remains opposed to a provision in Article 4(2) of this text. If we consider it wise to provide "concierge" assistance, it cannot rest on the communal block. This would necessarily create inequalities of treatment between municipalities that can – or want – provide help and others, and thus inequalities of treatment between our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u116	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u117	Since school principals are not territorial officials, such unequal treatment cannot be justified. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to assume its responsibilities and to offer the same means of the Republic to all schools and children of the Republic. While the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is pleased to be able to debate this subject today, it nevertheless hopes to be able to discuss tomorrow a project which greatly enhances the recognition given to the teaching teams as a whole. In reviewing the draft legislation to establish a universal pension, the Government had committed itself to significantly improving the remuneration of teachers in schools, as the profession had become impoverished in recent years. The school of the Republic is, with the universal health system, one of our most valuable common goods. It is our future, our hope, an area in which we must invest the most. If I have heard you correctly, Minister, you have just reiterated the commitment made to Parliament in January with regard to teachers' remuneration. May the Republic recognize the central place that teachers occupy in our republican pact! The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group intends to participate in laying the foundation stone allowing school principals to have a clarified functional job, but it hopes above all that this one is the first of the major construction sites of the school of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] Be sure that our group will follow the work with attention and demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u118	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u119	While the crisis of coronavirus and containment have been a test for our country, some professions have, with unwavering dedication, continued to serve it. I am thinking of health personnel, of course, but it is the educational staff that I want to pay tribute to today, and especially the principals. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank them. Together with the teachers, they have done – and continue to do it at the end of the school year – a great job for our children, despite sometimes complicated working conditions. I would like to pay special tribute here to the schools of Béziers and other communes in my constituency. Unfortunately, I cannot name them all, but I am thinking in particular of the schools in Villeneuve-lès-Béziers and Corneilhan with which I have had the opportunity to work in the Children's Parliament. This crisis has shown how essential the role of school principals is. It is more than time for the specific nature of their function to be recognised even if, it must be recalled, more than a statute, these are concrete means that they demand. In this regard, a recent report of the Senate is without appeal. It states that "nearly 60% of school principals... would be in burn-out", one third of whom would be in the "clinical burn-out" category. For two thirds of managers, working conditions have continued to deteriorate in recent years. Among the causes of this malaise, 80 per cent of the managers interviewed feel that "too many decisions are imposed on them by their hierarchies". If we add to this that "nearly 4000 director positions are vacant out of about 44,000 schools", or 9% of the posts, there is a real urgency to take action. So while I welcome the progress proposed by this text, there is still a long way to go. Let us take a few examples. There are some advantages to creating a functional job for principals. While traditionally staff are appointed to positions of responsibility for a fixed period of time, it was important to clarify in the committee that this is not the case for school principal positions, and that they do not entail a mobility requirement. Pedagogical projects can only be implemented in the long term, and managers did not need such a precarisation. Why, on the other hand, do DASEN appoint the school principal, even though the positions with profile are traditionally filled by a jury, which would seem more appropriate and fairer here? In addition, this bill provides for the discharge of a school principal from school when he or she runs an establishment of eight or more classes. What about the directors of the smallest schools? The Senate report makes it clear that all school principals have a significant workload: more than 90% of them estimate that their annualized weekly working time is more than forty-five hours, half of them even saying it is more than fifty hours. It is therefore important to recognize the number of incompressible days of discharge. It is necessary to think now, for the coming school year, of making available to the directors of one or more administrative agents, depending on the size of the school. In this connection, I would like to point out that these agents must report to the Ministry of National Education, because I am aware that once again there is a great temptation to place the burden on the municipalities. Helping school principals is also a response to their material needs, including the provision of recent computers. According to the Senate report, office automation issues represent three of the top four priority expectations of school principals with respect to material resources. Minister, on August 20, in the heart of the Ariège Valley in Ax-les-Thermes, you said that "digital is one of the major levers of educational policy" that you are leading. What if we start by providing computers to our school principals? Section 4 of this bill also provides that communities may make available to the school principal "concierge or administrative assistance". While the intention is laudable, the State is once again relieved of its obligations to the communities, without giving them any additional resources, which necessarily leads to the risk of creating a two-speed school depending on the level of wealth of the municipality. Colleagues, I hope that we will be able to refine this bill so that our school principals feel supported and encouraged in their mission, and that they will be able to approach the coming year with serenity. We can trust them, they showed us this again during the health crisis. In our turn, let us not disappoint them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u120	The general discussion is closed. The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u121	To make things clear, Mrs Rubin, Mr Larive, you say no to an increase in the resources dedicated to school principals; you say no to a clarification of their functions, even as we are moving towards simplification and easing; you say no to the consideration, proposed by the rapporteur, of different criteria which will make it possible to reach all school directorates, regardless of the size of the schools. By already announcing that you are going to vote against this bill, you say no to all of this. Then I would like to re-establish certain truths. You say you speak for the unions. Let's be clear and precise: you speak for some of the unions you're relaying here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since the unions are not unanimous, you speak for some of them who have taken these positions and it is their freedom. You always pretend to be here the voice carriers of all the unions. Mr Larive, be precise in the words you use, be honest. You speak for some unions whose positions you interpret.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u124	Four out of five unions! Not all of you, you're right: four out of five...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u125	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u126	At this point, I am certainly not going to make a long speech, but I would like to make a few comments. First of all, we see a quality of reflection due to time: this subject comes from far; The situation of school principals has not been in question for only three years, it has been a debate for ten or twenty years. We are given the opportunity, not to solve the problem completely, let us say it with total humility, but to lay at least the legislative foundation of a future building. A considerable amount of legislative work has been done earlier by the rapporteur, but also by several Members of different political tendencies, in recent years. I would also like to commend those who, apart from the majority, are very constructive because they see this text as a legislative vehicle capable of providing a whole series of positive answers. I strongly reiterate the commitment I made earlier: this text will be accompanied by regulatory measures, which can come into force immediately before the enactment of the law; their concrete effects will be felt from the beginning of September 2020, in order to meet some of the aspirations we have mentioned. These measures will be taken in the light of our debates of the day, which I look forward to with greed and interest because they will feed the progress we want for the principals. I would like us to avoid the trial of intent – in this regard, the debates have started rather well – because everyone wants the good of the principals. Everyone wants the education system to progress and students to succeed. I do not make any opposition group the trial to think anything other than that. Let's be united, from time to time. We can be, even if we don't think exactly the same thing: there can be different voices. We can discuss hierarchical power, for example, with mutual respect – as is already the case – and with a sense of construction through dialectics at work in these debates and beyond. We are very watched by the principals. Referring to trade unions, President Studer just said, Mr Larive, that you were talking about some trade unions and not others. He's right. In my opinion, there is no unanimous position even within the unions on whose behalf you think you are speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u128	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know enough about the field and have talked enough with school principals to know that different opinions go through the unions, the currents, and that's normal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This subject requires finesse, subtlety and, of course, convictions. He really deserves us to move forward together. It is also not impossible for certain articles to be adopted unanimously, simply because there are things that have been waiting for a long time and we have a unique opportunity to move them forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u129	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u130	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u131	In 1880, in the Chamber of Deputies, Jules Ferry – I know you like to quote him, minister – spoke on the question of free education: "It is important for a society like ours, in today's France, to mix on the benches of the school children who will find themselves, a little later, mixed under the flags of the homeland. There are more powerful means for the preservation and development of our social unity as they apply to more malleable minds and more sensitive souls. » The quality of our teaching is recognized and praised by many. She is also proud abroad, in the institutions of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger – AEFE network. Article 1 of the draft law specifies the duties of the Director and confirms his status as delegate of the academic authority. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the school of which he is head, he will henceforth be "authorised to take initiatives and decisions in relation to his various missions defined by the professional standards of school principals" and will also be able to sign agreements with the municipality. I regret, however, that there is no specific provision for directors abroad, whose missions are different. They must ensure the establishment of the school within the Francophone communities, but must also ensure respect for the values of the Republic in their institutions, in particular that of secularism. They also have a major role in cultural diplomacy and influence. I hope, therefore, that the new status of the school principal provided for in the bill will be re-aligned and that it will result in better remuneration and recognition of his duties. As the late Burkina Faso Head of State Thomas Sankara said: "We must teach the child to be first and foremost a social being, that is, a man and not an individual. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u132	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u133	The purpose of the bill is to provide better conditions for school directors and principals to carry out their many missions. It is the result of a long effort to listen to the actors on the ground and the social partners, which has led to a balanced text, of which Article 1 is the perfect illustration. Today, school directors and principals bear the weight of the many obligations they have without the necessary powers to assume them properly. This situation sometimes causes real suffering at work and makes them lose their sense of mission. That is why they must be able to enjoy functional authority in their schools. Let us be clear, however: Article 1e r does not fundamentally call into question the collegial nature of the operation of our schools, and the directors do not wish to do so, they who always take care to rely on the opinions of their colleagues and to seek their support. The director will be delegated to the academic authority only in the field of his duties, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the school. The director animates and directs the educational project. It organizes the life of the school and represents the point of contact between the various partners of the school: parents of pupils, elected representatives and associations. To this end, it endorses and implements decisions taken in council of teachers and in school council after consultation with all stakeholders. The projects he wishes to develop can only be developed after consultation with his colleagues. Finally, and I stress this point, the principals and principals will not be the superiors of the professors, who will remain under the authority of the inspectors of national education. Thus, without disrupting the organisation of our schools, this article modernises the framework to allow, quite simply, the school directors and principals to exercise the profession that loves them with more means and time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u134	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u135	Last Monday, school principals were again on the front line when primary schools had to be reopened even more widely and a reduced health protocol, often untenable, had to be implemented as a result of the covid-19 epidemic. But this essential profession, made up of passionate and high-quality staff, is marked by a deep malaise. With fewer and fewer candidates, she is subject to many contradictions. Director but teacher above all, primus inter pares without hierarchical power over other teachers, he must ensure the proper functioning of the school without enjoying the necessary autonomy. In this context, the status quo is not desirable. Last November, after the tragic gesture of a school principal, the Government appeared in a hurry, but its action remained very partial. A true sea serpent of public debate for many years, the dossier of school principals stagnates. He re-emerged on the occasion of the consideration of the bill for a school of trust in early 2019, with the passage by the Senate of a provision, deleted by the Joint Joint Committee, aimed at strengthening their prerogatives. The text presented to us today, as amended in committee, must therefore make it possible to adapt a rapidly changing profession and to clarify the tasks and responsibilities of those who exercise it. However, the bill still needs to provide guarantees on three points. The first is training, on which I have tabled an appeal amendment. Whether initial or continuing, the needs in this area are important, and if they are not met, the reform undertaken cannot succeed. The second is the cost of the administrative aid made available by the municipalities, which will have to be compensated while the local finances are exsanguous. The third concerns the date of implementation of the reform: given the current context, it is difficult to see how it could enter into force on the scheduled date without calling into question an already fragile organization. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is an urgent need to address the concerns of managers about the flexibility and sustainability of the system, which will have to bring about profound changes as the situation is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u136	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u137	During the examination of the text in committee, many of the proposals of the Socialist and related groups were taken up by the rapporteur, a sign that we were not mistaken. We look forward to it. Thus, in Article 1, the absence of a hierarchical link between the Director and his colleagues was confirmed, a condition sine qua non for the former to perform his duties in a calm manner. It was important to recall this: the role of the director is not to evaluate the teaching teams; He remains a peer among his peers. Another provision goes in the right direction: the greater possibility given to the director to make decisions on school life without having to refer it to the national education inspector. Nevertheless, there is much to be said about the role of school principal and the proposed law as a whole. At the same time as a teacher, animator of the teaching teams, coordinator of the projects of the institutions, representative of the institution to the local authorities and guarantor of the regulations, the director combines the tasks and responsibilities with the sole and sole objective of ensuring the conditions necessary for the progress and well-being of all the pupils. For all this, the Republic owes the principals infinitely. The latter, however, sound the alarm about their working conditions: drawn between the hierarchical injunctions of a technocracy disconnected from the reality of the field, a chatty ministerial communication, more pressure every day from the parents and, recently, out-of-ground sanitary instructions, abandoned regularly by the institution which they proudly chose to incarnate, they are mistreated and tired. This profound ill-being was dramatically illustrated by Christine Renon's suicide in September 2019, to whom I wish to pay tribute today. Finally, if the text identifies the difficulties encountered by the directors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u138	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u139	... it unfortunately contains no significant progress that could improve their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u140	Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u141	Once again, there is much to bet that we will stay on display and that...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u142	Thank you. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u143	I thank you, Minister, for having understood, unlike Mr Studer who tends to give us a caricatureal image,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u144	[[Smile]] Mr Studer, this is not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u145	...that we are here to move the debate forward and that there are, indeed, different ways of conceiving things. Yes, we want to improve the working conditions of school principals. Yes, we denounce the duplicity of the text on the subject of hierarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u146	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u147	The text remains cloudy and it bothers us: it is a fact. As for the unions, in primary education, four out of five of them are opposed to the bill, not to mention the collective of "red pens" which represents 700,000 primary professionals. Be aware, moreover, that we are not the parrots of trade unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u148	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u149	We carry their word because our analyses converge: in this case, on the subject of hierarchy, but also on the emptiness of the text with regard to schools of less than eight classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u150	We come to the amendments. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u151	Bearing in mind that in this case training falls within the regulatory area, as provided for in Article L. 411-1 of the Education Code, I am presenting an appeal amendment here. As we seek to define the duties of the school principal, it seems essential to mention the need for training. Without it, future directors will not be able to meet the many challenges they will face. Without it, reform will not meet their expectations and will not be fully successful. Thus, training must be twofold. Initial training needs to be strengthened to cover all aspects of the profession. Continuing training should provide a framework for peer-to-peer exchange, as advocated in the information report of the Senate Committee on Culture, Education and Communication on the situation of school principals, in order to allow the sharing of experiences. In fact, according to a survey conducted last November, more than the majority of school principals have not followed a continuous training module linked to their leadership function since they have been in charge. However, the profession evolves, as quickly as legislation, and requires managerial skills that must be developed and maintained in order to ensure the smooth running of the school. I know you are paying attention to this, minister, but the distance training you are considering, if it is an interesting opportunity, cannot be the main response to training requests. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am confident, Madam rapporteur, that you will express a favourable opinion on the amendment: in committee, the first amendment tabled was an LR amendment and it was adopted; I'm counting on you to do the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u153	I'm sorry, Mr. Minot, but I won't!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u154	[[Smile]] What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u155	Your amendment aims to ensure that the initial training of directors takes into account all aspects of the profession and that their continuing training includes a new period of compulsory exchange, first one year after taking up the post, and then every five years. I am obviously not opposed to the principle that underlies it:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u156	Then let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u157	... initial and continuing training, we repeat, is extremely important for our teachers and, in general, for all national education staff. However, the measures you propose are too precise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u158	You'd have to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u159	... and would lead to rigidisation of the academic training plan and, a fortiori, the national training plan. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u160	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u161	First of all, I want to recall one thing: I am, like all of you on these benches, representative of the nation and I hear that I am owed respect as I owe you. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, all trade unions, with the exception of UNSA, have told us of their opposition to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u162	Not the SGEN!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u163	Not the SNE!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u164	We listen to them because they are on the ground and know what they are talking about, unlike you, who are completely disconnected from the topics discussed. By the way, Mr Studer, you're less than ten metres from me, I can hear you very well and know that you don't need to scream. It's gonna be a long day, stay calm and preserve your strength. I come to the amendment, which tends to delete paragraphs 3 and 4. Making school directors the delegates of academic authority and making them decision-makers in school life debates would mean completely disrupting the operation of the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u166	Mr Larive, we are not going to resume the philosophical debate we held in committee on the notion of authority. I will remind you only that these two paragraphs form the basis for the functional authority that principals need, as students, families and other teachers recognize. It is indeed necessary for someone to have the task of setting the limits and duties of each person. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u167	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u168	This amendment is not well drafted and I therefore withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u169	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 95, 139 and 177. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u170	While the principal plays an essential role in the development of the educational community, it is the latter who, within the framework of the school council, takes decisions on the main issues of school life in a collegial manner. Accordingly, this amendment is intended to delete the words "confirms the decisions taken therein". Indeed, it is not up to the head of establishment to validate these decisions, but only to implement them. He is certainly the keystone of his establishment, but as coordinator of the action of the masters. More than the discussions in committee, it was the Red Pens collective that convinced us – but perhaps you will be able to be even more convincing, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u171	She's gonna make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u172	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u173	It is identical to the previous one. The use of the verb "endorsing" suggests that the school principal would be able to validate the decisions taken by the school board. While the Director must implement these decisions, it does not seem appropriate to give him the right of veto. Given the way a school board works and the skills that it has, I really feel that the word "endorses" is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u174	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u175	The Members of the La France insoumée group also wish to delete the word "enterine". No one has asked you, Madam rapporteur, to make school principals decision-makers! Where did you hear such a claim? The purpose of the bill is to improve their working conditions and reduce the burden of their tasks. To give them the power to endorse the Board's decisions would have the exact opposite effect. Moreover, this would call into question the richness and specificity of primary school, i.e. its democratic functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u177	Why does the word "endorse" matter – I hope to convince you, Mrs. Bagarry –? If the principal not only complies with the decisions of the school board today, but also approves them, neither the parents of the pupils, nor the teachers, nor the local elected representatives will be able to return to it. Although this is happening well on a large number of school boards, it may be that the decision taken collectively is challenged by one or the other of the participants. Of course, the school principal will not have taken the decision alone, but will endorse it, so that it can really be implemented. I would add that, as is the case today, the decision will have to be validated by the academic inspection, which will give it protection if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u178	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u179	I said earlier that there were areas of blur in this text. They suggest that the desire to impose a hierarchical status on school principals, which already marked the debates on the law for a school of trust, has not been completely abandoned. You say, Madam rapporteur, that you have heard the overwhelming refusal of the education staff to take part in such a project, but we can see that there are still traces of it when we read in paragraph 4 the words "delegate of academic authority". We always feel the temptation to establish this hierarchical link – at the risk, in my opinion, of evacuating, which makes the democratic life of the school rich. We therefore propose that paragraph 4 should be deleted to remove any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u181	Unfavorable opinion. But Amendment No 211, which I shall present in a few moments, will undoubtedly reassure you, Mrs Faucillon, that it refers to "delegation of competences of academic authority" and deletes the reference to the professional framework of principals, which does not have to be included in a text of legislative value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u182	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u183	Paragraph 4 contributes to legislative inflation. The Constitutional Council, in its decision of 21 April 2005, recalls that "the law is intended to lay down rules" and that it will censor any provision "without normative scope". Sending back to a decree the determination of the scope of the delegation to which the school principal is entitled, as proposed in this amendment, would allow it to evolve without having to go through a new legislative path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u185	I agree with you, Mrs Descamps, that we can improve the wording of this somewhat talkative paragraph, and that is why I tabled the amendment I have just mentioned. On the other hand, I think it is very important to clarify in the legislation, even briefly, the content of the delegation of powers. Since the purpose of the text was to reduce the burden on directors, the delegation should be limited to decisions concerning the day-to-day operation of the school. If we do not clarify this, the delegation could be extended, which would be counterproductive and would justify the fears expressed a few moments ago by Mrs Faucillon. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u186	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No 229, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u187	We, too, refuse that the principal should be delegated to the academic authority. That is exactly what I said in conclusion of my intervention in the general discussion: the principal, who is there to lead a team and to facilitate relations between the parents and the institution, would become the last belt of transmission of vertical instructions from the ministry, the new working of an entire administrative machinery, when it is neither its function nor its mission. I see that you are smiling, Madam rapporteur, but that is the intention. The red pens, like the intersyndical, oppose it, and we understand why. We therefore reject the use of the term "organize" in paragraph 4 – and your amendment will not change the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u189	The bill does not give a decision-making power to the principal on the school board, as you seem to believe. The principle of the operation of the school board and the council of teachers is not at any time called into question. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u191	Mrs Rubin, my speech will be of pure logic. I believe that you defend the concept of a major public service in national education and I share with you the pride and happiness of having such a competent public service in France at the national level; You are also defending democracy and it is as a minister of education that we need. And so this minister has the responsibility for this public service. You may already have doubts, but if he is in charge of this public service, he must give what can be called instructions – free to choose the term you like – and it is desirable that they be respected. We are approaching the notion of hierarchical power on a nation-wide basis, with executive power emanating from that nation at its head. All these principles should not give rise to differences between us. That is why, and it is very important that I say it for the logical continuation of our debates, I am wary of the automatic rejection of the word "hierarchy". There's hierarchy anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u192	Even among the Unsubs there is a hierarchy! It's Jean-Luc Mélenchon the leader!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u193	It's about where to place her. If there is none at the level of the school principal – that would be possible – then the hierarchical authority is exercised at the level of the inspector of national education. You may prefer this to be the case, but in any case there is a hierarchical power. The real subject is to know where it is good to place it rather than to give a diabolical connotation to the word "hierarchy" by calling it "verticality". We need and need verticality, and horizontality, in a balance that we must seek. I think this could be the background to the continuation of our debates and we would avoid demonizing one position or another. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u194	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u195	This amendment proposes to replace the words "issues relating to school life" with the words "issues relating to school life". This lexical change is all the more justified because in secondary school, school life includes the more supervised set of principal education counsellors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u197	Favourable to this editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u199	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u200	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u201	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Minister, you were very fond of your appointment, but much less so since then. You're still a little bit, but we'd have to go back up. The teachers I see all tell me that they are not at all happy with this piece of legislation that you support. You have him examined on June 24, when they go on vacation and can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u202	They're not on vacation yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u203	It's July 4th!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u205	Thank you, Madam President, for upholding the order. I know it's June 24, since it's St. John's,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u206	It was the first day of school the day before yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u207	...but I'm still talking about it because they're not happy at all, Mr Studer. I owe everything to the black hussars of the Republic, I owe everything to the teachers of France. And the way they've been treated for 30 years doesn't suit me at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u208	That's why we want to make a difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u209	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's not by corporalizing them, with new leaders, new adjuvants above them... But, ladies and gentlemen, they have explained it to me. It is not this text that they need, but that we stop deleting posts one after the other; They need, in order to paraphrase the President of the Republic, to feel the nation behind them. They don't need to be divided. And the more castes – including the news you create – there are, the more divisions. National education, our teachers, our teachers deserve better than we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u210	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u211	We reject the delegation of academic authority to school principals. Mr Minister, I thank you for being honest in saying that you chose a hierarchy, a certain verticality – which contradicts the rapporteur's words, by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u212	It's just a matter of logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u213	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] For us, we want to see the democratic functioning of schools perpetuated, which is very well suited to us. You are right, Madam rapporteur, this is not the time to start over the philosophical debates we have had in committee. Yet a hint of philosophy would do us good. I respect your vision of authority; But mine is democratic: I give it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u215	Mr Larive, you should be satisfied with the clarification of the next amendment on delegation of powers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u216	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 211 and 223. Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor to support Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u217	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the school principal is given a delegation of powers by the academic authority, thereby removing the reference to the school principal's professional reference. Indeed, if a section of law refers to a regulation and the regulation disappears, the section becomes inapplicable. However, it is within the scope of the powers set out in the Repository that the Director will exercise functional authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u218	Mrs Sylvie Charière's amendment 223 is being defended. What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u219	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u220	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u221	Mrs Rilhac, this is the third draft of Article 1 that you are proposing. I would therefore like to ask you a clarification: what do you mean by "the proper functioning of the school"?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u222	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u223	I have spoken at length in committee about the three competences mentioned by the trade repository. The proper functioning of the school is conceived in a global way: this is what allows the director to properly organize school life, debates, and the fulfilment of his various tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u224	I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u225	This amendment makes the Director responsible for preventing and combating violence and harassment in schools, for monitoring them and for their annual evaluation, as part of a broader approach to improving the school climate. Despite the creation of many facilities within schools, the situation remains worrying. The Government has made school harassment and violence one of the main causes of the quinquennium. Many measures have been taken: action plan, national day, awareness-raising campaigns, green number. They have not been enough, because the figures are not falling enough. Today, one in ten children is the victim of school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u227	Thank you, Mrs Granjus, for this amendment: it allows me to point out that harassment, often associated with secondary education, also concerns primary education. However, it is intended to assign a new responsibility to the school principal, while the purpose of this bill is to ease the burden. Moreover, the idea of evaluation induces the idea of hierarchy; On the contrary, we want the director to remain primus inter pares. I do not want to minimize the importance of combating school harassment at any level, but the committee's opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u229	The fight against harassment is indeed a priority. She received a legislative consecration: we introduced her into the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust. Ipso facto, it is part of the missions of the principals of the first and second degree, and therefore of those of the principals of the school. I agree with the rapporteur that this amendment would unnecessarily add to an already established responsibility. However, we are beginning to achieve results in this area, thanks to the various campaigns, but also to the fact that harassment is at the heart of what we call the school climate, which is one of the criteria of the new School Evaluation Board. We will not resolve this issue overnight. The containment has, unfortunately, highlighted the phenomenon of cyberharassment, on which Adrien Taquet and I have worked a lot. I will not detail the progress made here, but they are real; Among other things, there are now anti-harassment ambassadors in each institution. It's not a subject we're stagnating on. Again, I absolutely share the spirit of this amendment; However, the measure would not be relevant, as the rapporteur said. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u230	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u231	I wanted to reply to the minister about the article, but I have to leave the Chamber to go to committee; I will therefore not be able to follow this debate that I am passionate about. First of all, the principals, who are the recipients of this bill, have not asked for any delegation of powers, which will not render them any service, nor will they bring any improvement in their conditions of exercise, nor will they bring any hierarchical power on their team. I do not even see why we are discussing it, if the aim of this text is to remedy the difficulties encountered by the profession. Then I never had the slightest problem with the hierarchy. This one is represented by the NIS, and everything is going very well. However, guidance is not instructions, which sometimes go so far as to specify how children can learn to read and write. It's also what makes teachers angry. Finally, I repeat, Mr Studer, four out of five unions, plus the Red Pens collective, disapprove of this bill. If you care so much about democracy, maybe you could start by listening to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u232	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u233	In the initial wording of Article 1, Madam Rapporteur, the Director was presented as "the delegate of the academic authority". We had pointed out the difficulties raised by this expression. You are now in the third version of the text: it is only a question of a "delegation of competences of the academic authority". This amendment itself constitutes a new wording of an amendment rejected by the committee. It is important that the director be able to ensure that all teachers adhere to the school project, while respecting educational freedom. It is not a question of hierarchy, but rather of common sense: Article 1 allows the director to benefit from the famous delegation of powers, linked to his responsibilities relating to the operation of the school. The assessment of assistant teachers is the responsibility of the NIE, but the principal must be able to participate in the evaluation of his school. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u235	The assessment of the school, like that of the teachers, is indeed a matter of the NIE. We're going to be even less confused with the practice that when he comes to inspect a teacher, he often chats with the principal to find out how this teacher is evolving within the school. So what you are asking for already exists, without obligation, as a good practice. There is no need to freeze it in the law, but to extend it on the ground. It also demonstrates the good intelligence in which WEI, school directors and teaching teams live. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u237	This possibility exists in the form of experimental protocols in academies such as Strasbourg, I believe, and Montpellier. For this reason, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u238	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u239	For this purpose, the Director does not have to act as an evaluator. It's up to the N.A. to do it. Their respective functions should not be confused or transferred to the former. In addition, managers are asking to be relieved of some of their administrative tasks rather than receiving new ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u240	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u241	It is essential that the director be able to assess the people he or she works with on a daily basis. It is not a question of hierarchy, it is understood, but he must be able to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u242	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u243	The principal or principal of the school is in constant contact with the territorial community exercising the school competence, whether the latter is the commune or the public institution of intercommunal cooperation. Therefore, this amendment is intended to incorporate into our legislation this link between the Director and, as the case may be, the Mayor or his representative, or the President of the EPCI or his representative. The municipality is competent for premises, maintenance and operation. The director participates in relation to the municipal services, but he also plays an extremely important role in representing the school institution in the commune, particularly when defining and directing territorialised educational policies: territorial educational project – PEDT –, educational success programme – PRE –, educational part of city contracts. Again, collaboration between the school principal and the town hall or EPCI is crucial for the operation of the school as well as for educational policies. This amendment intends to reaffirm this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u245	Dialogue with the commune is essential: I agree with you on this point. But it goes without saying; We don't need to call him back. The municipalities own the buildings of the schools and will continue to decide on their own. In addition, I am wary of the clarification that you propose to insert, because it seems to entrust the director with a new mission, which we do not wish to do. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u247	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u248	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u249	I will withdraw this amendment, but I call for regular discussions on the essential partnership between national education, school principals and municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u250	I call Mr Le Bohec to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u251	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] First of all, let me congratulate the principals and principals on their commitment, their motivation, during the crisis that we have just been through. We were all impressed when we visited institutions. Last Thursday, at the La Roche des Grees school in Guipry-Messac, I attended a teacher's course that medical reasons prevented him from returning to his post: he worked from his home, having half of his students at a distance, the other half in the class where I was, assisted on the spot by another teacher. I repeat, we must congratulate the directors on these innovations, on this agility. Minister, you said in your opening remarks that educational continuity could not have been ensured without them. They are the guarantors, the conductors of this organization. The crisis has exacerbated school drop-out; In the words of March 31, teachers lost between 5% and 8% of their students. Two factors have worsened the situation: on the one hand, teachers and families have sometimes encountered technical problems, due in particular to the digital divide; On the other hand, compulsory education has suffered from obstacles to the operational coordination of teaching teams. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is first of all to instruct the school principal to maintain the link with the educational community, including parents and pupils. In addition, it aims to make the principal of the school a true conductor who facilitates the coordination of the teaching teams. If they are to maintain their full educational freedom, it is essential that they be able to rely on a school management system that allows them to find appropriate solutions, especially technologically, to carry out their profession in all students – including when students are unable to attend school normally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u253	This amendment seems to me to be unclear, and to be already satisfied: indeed, the continuity and educational freedom which it invokes are included in the code of education. In its current wording, it would increase the tasks of school principals. Today, in the event of a breach of pedagogical continuity – when children do not attend formal schooling and leave school, in particular – the academic inspection is seized, when it is not a higher level. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u255	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u256	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u257	The aim of the amendment is in fact to devote tasks already undertaken by school principals before the particular period of health crisis. It is a way of thanking them for the quality of their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u258	I have before me two amendments, Nos 166 and 167, which may be submitted to a joint presentation. Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u259	They are designed to enable schools forming an educational group to establish a common direction, at least in the form of experiments. This would be an interesting opportunity for rural school principals. For example, there are very few large schools in the Dordogne, but there are eighty-six intercommunal educational groups. There seems to be a need to open up new operating opportunities for rural schools and their principals, without imposing them, and respecting the lines of mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u260	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u261	I understand the need for coordination that you are expressing, Mrs. Dubois. However, the bill is intended to alleviate the duties of school principals, and the issue of the inter-community educational groupings that you raise would in itself deserve a piece of legislation. These amendments therefore have no place in this text. I ask that it be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u263	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u264	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u265	On the contrary, I believe that we need to talk about this right now. I withdraw Amendment No 166, but I maintain point 167, which is intended to encourage experiments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u266	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u267	With article 2, we discuss the essential subject of the role of school principal. The concept of functional employment has given rise to much debate in committee, and despite the clarifications made by Mrs Rilhac, we understand that it is a cause for concern. The balance proposed by the rapporteur, however, seems to us to satisfy the original objective of creating a principalship position, while reassuring those who occupy it. In addition, the article commits a major step forward on landfills, so that the diversity and specificities of all schools are taken into account. The La République on the move gives its full support to the rapporteur, whose amendment will undoubtedly meet all our expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u268	What a declaration of love!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u269	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u270	The purpose of section 2 is to appoint the school principal in a "functional job", a mismatched midway between status and employment. However, let us recognize that this bill is a step forward in introducing a better specific management allowance and an additional discharge – it is indeed time that school principals need the most to carry out their mission. A scheme that would benefit all schools would probably be more appropriate, but it is important to provide a response to school principals who show full commitment during this unprecedented health crisis. I have met several of them since the reopening of May 11, and I want to pay tribute to them – especially since the ministry has not facilitated their task by imposing an indigestible protocol of more than fifty pages. The crisis has beautifully illustrated the inflation of letters, permanent injunctions – sometimes contradictory – and binding directives whose directors are flooded. The latter bear witness to a weariness and a loss of sense in their profession – because school principal is a profession in its own right. I regret that the bill does not deal with the direction of inter-communal educational groups, and I hope that, in the context of a future act of decentralization, we will address the issue of school groupings. I also regret that this draft does not refer to "the school of the foundation", and that paragraph 4 of this article undermines its principle. Finally, I will propose an amendment that will allow you to clarify, Minister, how the new provisions of this bill will apply to private schools under contract with the state. We'll have to make sure we don't break what's working.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u272	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u273	By stating that the principal has a functional job, article 2 goes in the right direction, because the stability of the principal is often a guarantee of the proper functioning of the school. We also welcome the clarification that directors will continue their careers in their original corps in an accelerated manner – even though we believe that this function should also lead to salary recognition. On the other hand, we regret that landfills are only provided for schools of eight or more classes, while all directors – including small schools – need dedicated time to perform their duties. They unanimously express this need. If the discharge thresholds are not changed, we will propose a revision of the criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u274	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u275	If I could seem abrupt in my previous speech, it was because I thought we all shared the same level of information. I wanted to say this: neither the principals themselves nor their fellow teachers are asking for a reform of the status of director. After being introduced in September and then withdrawn, this bill is now being taken up, although five out of six unions disapprove of it. The movement of the Red Pens, born in the wake of that of the "yellow vests", is absolutely opposed to it. The professionals concerned consider that they do not need a head of establishment, i.e. a higher authority, moreover without the means to carry out the tasks entrusted to him. The teachers tell me how much they are burdened with administrative work, not to mention relations with the parents of students. They need to be more numerous and better paid. I thank you for not wanting to close the educational groups, minister, but I am not sure that all your inspectors apply this directive. They are in fact clever: they know that it is enough to abolish a post, often from kindergarten, in an educational group, so that the parents, poor, place their children in a school 25 kilometres away or in a private institution. The grouping was sabotaged and ended two or three years later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u276	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u277	This is a deletion amendment. Together with the vast majority of teachers' unions, we refuse to create a functional job as school principal. This function is in fact a pirouette aimed at circumventing the profession's opposition to the status of director. Functional positions already exist in the public service: they are positions of responsibility to which staff are appointed for a fixed term, possibly renewable. At the end of the renewal, they are subject to an obligation of mobility. So you're creating a particularly unstable position, when school principals need security and time to complete their mission. This reality cannot be denied. An amendment was adopted in committee to clarify that there would be no mobility requirement and that the employment of a director would not be allocated for a fixed period of time. This shows to what extent the director function you create is a fragile legal object, with imprecise contours, which leads to instability in this function.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u279	You will be happy for once, Mr Larive, since Amendment No 234, which I will present on behalf of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, aims to remove the concept of functional employment. In our committee discussions, we all agreed that it was difficult to outline a functional job that met the demands of school principals. This will no longer be a matter of functional employment, but of executive employment. In doing so, we give back our hands to the consultation process, since the Minister and the trade union organizations will determine the contours of this employment through an order-in-council. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u280	I have two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 135. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u281	I am pleased to note that, for once, we will perhaps get answers in the debate in the Chamber. My amendment is almost similar to point 56, since it is intended to delete paragraph 2. Mr. Frédéric Reiss stated that the text was a step in the right direction, but that it was not going far enough. For our part, we believe that functional employment is a step too far, and that the texts that frame it are too vague: they create an opportunity for mobility while we want to ensure stability, and the profiling entrusted to the academic directors of the national education services does not seem to be very positive. I hope that the minister will give us more details on Amendment No 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u282	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u283	The fact that the school principal has a functional job implies that the authority appoints him at its discretion, normally for a fixed period renewable once, with an obligation of mobility. Its holder is revocable by unilateral decision of the authority, which may destabilize the teams. Although it was stated in the committee that this functional job did not entail a mobility obligation and was not allocated for a fixed period of time, the scheme is legally fragile and questionable. We therefore propose the deletion of paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u285	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u287	Same opinion. We note that there are oppositions to the proposal to create a functional job. In this respect, the committee's amendment No 224, which will be discussed very soon, should give Mrs Faucillon and Mr Cordier every satisfaction. It shows that we have heard the objections and illustrates our willingness to define a way of governance of the school by transcending the left-right cleavage. Is functional use the solution? Not according to the authors of the amendments. Is that the delegation of powers? Some opposed it earlier. Should the school be governed by a hierarchical authority, that of the NIE or, where appropriate, of the principal? We have tried to introduce logic into this complex subject, but the reality is not univocal: each school needs a specific governance, adapted to its particularities, such as its size or location. Therefore, the legislative framework we will define must be sufficiently flexible to allow good governance, which is the result of a balance between horizontality and verticality. I have been very attentive to the preparatory work and the debates that have taken place in committee, and I understand that, in the eyes of a majority of you, the formula of functional employment is not the right one. But we must take our responsibilities and not allow the mode of governance to be self-defined, because the result would be both vague and unambiguous, even though there are differences between the territories. However, it is always easier to reach consensus to remove a measure than to create one. I therefore hope that the continuation of the discussion will allow us to agree on new provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u288	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u289	I am very surprised: two years ago, we were talking about statutory jobs, last week, we discussed at length the concept of functional employment, and today we are moving towards another solution. In any event, I welcome these advances, which will probably lead us to create a job as school principal: so much the better, and very much Amendment No 234, so that we can talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u290	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u291	The co-existence of the words "functional use" and "occupant" in the same paragraph 2 seemed to me to be a problem. I therefore proposed to simplify the wording by providing that the principal was "recruited on a functional job which does not involve a requirement of mobility or duration". But I understood that an amendment from the committee coming after mine would solve the problem, so I will withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u292	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u293	Presented by our colleague Frédéric Reiss, he tended to improve the wording of paragraph 2 of article 2: it seemed more accurate to us to write that the school principal "is appointed on" a functional job, rather than "has" that job. But it was before we knew that the amendment tabled by the rapporteur would remove the very concept of functional employment! It is true that we have criticized her a lot: as Frédéric Reiss pointed out, it would be an ill-cut score for the school principal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u294	The rapporteur, Mrs Cécile Rilhac, has the floor to support Amendment No. 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u295	It is intended to remove the concept of functional employment to refer only to executive employment, the framework of which is specified in the following subparagraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u297	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u298	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u299	That's good, rapporteur, we're moving forward! You don't have much left to do: to change the title of the bill – since it is no longer a matter of creating a position of school principal – to remove the appointment of the director by the INE and to restore educational democracy... We may then be able to vote in favour of the bill. But I wonder if the legislation that has been passed will be very useful to anything, unless new tasks are assigned to the directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u300	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u301	The Republicans Group had announced that it was taking a constructive approach and would help you make progress in drafting the bill. But today, when I arrived in committee, just four minutes after the start of the discussion of the amendments under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, this amendment had already been adopted! I'm surprised you showed such haste. The opposition, which could have supported it, was not really consulted. Let us discover such an amendment at the time of the debate in the House, it is really not very fair-playing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u302	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u303	Don't worry, I won't interrupt the debate any longer! But before I leave the Chamber to attend a conference, I would like to say to the minister that the principals, as he defines them, are actually "managers" as he was appointed fifteen years ago at La Poste and at France Telecom. Now, you know what happened and in what condition they are today! By appointing people who were not from these institutions, the spirit and culture were totally destroyed. Result: France Telecom is today the company that has experienced the largest number of suicides! In view of the state of mind in our schools at present, it is above all not the function that you propose that there is a need, but that teams that work in a multidisciplinary manner should be re-established. The school doesn't need a "super-master", but a lot of means – I know it's not easy – more positions and unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u304	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u305	This is an editorial amendment, which aims to ensure the consistency of the different sentences in paragraph 3 by choosing to use the singular to designate the principal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u307	This is a very good proposal, but the adoption of this amendment would make my amendment No 235 irrelevant, which is also intended to ensure a more general consistency of paragraph 3, in particular with regard to the career advancement of teachers according to their body and grade. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u308	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u309	At MODEM, you always end up withdrawing your amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u310	Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 64, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u311	He's no longer in any interest, so I'm taking him away, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u312	I have before me two amendments, Nos 235 and 65, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 235 of the Committee is drafting. Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 65, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u313	I'm going to say a few words, because I'm pretty upset about the way things have happened today. It is clear that, in the end, Amendment No 235, adopted in committee, will result in the deletion of the whole end of paragraph 3 and the removal of all the others. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip and Mr Maxime Minot applaud]] Paragraph 3 provided that directors "continue their careers in the original corps in an accelerated manner. Their step-by-step progress shall be made outside the quotas provided for in the regulations on promotion in their original corps. This specific rate of progress is fixed by decree". I had said in committee that this paragraph was unnecessary and too rough in its wording, and that it was sufficient to state directly that step progress would be determined by decree. This is what we are finally going to achieve, but I repeat, you have not been fair-play by changing the writing of the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u315	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It took a long time to think, find the right solution and draft the amendment. Our proposal, which differs from yours, reflects the difference between the step advancement which, in a teaching career, is naturally and generally achieved by seniority, and the grade advancement which we propose to decontinue, which will make it possible to really speed up the career of directors. The proposed wording also makes it possible to incorporate the suggestion made by Mrs Béatrice Descamps in committee, through an amendment aimed at making it easier for school principals to access the exceptional class. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u317	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u318	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u319	I'm sorry for the expression, but we've been involved in committee to tell you that all these provisions are in the regulatory field: here we are, so, but the consequence is that we won't know what a management job looks like today. That's a little too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u320	Like, the opposition has good ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u321	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u322	When it comes to plagiarizing us, they're strong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u323	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u324	Contrary to what was erroneously stated in the explanatory memorandum, this is an amendment in principle, not a withdrawal, which aims to recall the importance that the principal should have the free choice of the department – and if possible of the institution – in which he will be appointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u326	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment would affect the movement not only of school principals, but of all teachers in national education. They do not choose their position, but they are also not appointed by heads of institutions, SIs or DASEN.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u327	I have before me two amendments, Nos 216 and 156, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u328	This is a precise amendment. Since the regulations already provide that school principals are appointed from an aptitude list signed by DASEN and that the INE is present during the interview, the sentence "by the academy inspector, director of the departmental services of national education" is superfate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u329	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u330	I am echoed here by several principals with whom I spoke, who believe that appointments would make more sense if principals were considered to be profiled positions. Profiled positions are filled outside the intradepartmental movement of teachers and teachers in schools, by decision of a jury, and after publication of calls for applications to which teachers can apply. This method seems to me better than DASEN's appointment of school principals. Selection by the board has the advantage of allowing the objective and motivated selection of those whose profile best corresponds to the function to be assigned to them. It is also the assurance that future principals will have applied for the school and will therefore not be appointed in a random place; It is a freedom that I believe it is necessary to preserve. The jury could be made up of one or two national education inspectors and one pedagogical adviser.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u332	The aim of the bill is to improve the working conditions of school principals and to recognize their mission, not to question the functioning of national education, in this case the departmental movement as a method of assigning teachers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u334	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u335	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u336	I would like to go back to the rapporteur's amendment. The text provides that only persons on the fitness lists may be directors, which is problematic. In fact, 4000 director posts are currently vacant, filled by teachers acting as directors who are not on the lists. How to fill these 4000 positions? I confess, it was the unions that informed me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u337	The rapporteur's amendment No 214 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u338	I have before me two amendments, No 196 corrected and 236, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 196, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u339	It is defended because the corrected amendment does not correspond to the spirit of the original amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u340	Amendment No 236 of the Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u341	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u342	The text of the draft law states that the training precedes the entry on the aptitude list for the employment of director. The amendment is intended to add that any teacher in the schools to whom the role of director is entrusted must receive training. In some cases, teachers from non-occupational schools may be appointed ex officio to positions of director; They are often beginner teachers and it is important that they receive the minimum training necessary to accomplish their mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u344	According to the text of the bill, no director can be appointed without prior training. This is a guarantee for all future principals, who will receive quality training corresponding to the requirements of the profession. We are responding to a request from the field: indeed, all the directors we met felt that training was insufficient. I understand the value of your amendment, Mrs Dubois, but it could allow for the appointment of poorly trained directors. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u346	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u347	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u348	In reality, teachers are appointed to managerial positions when they are not on the aptitude list. I do not question the text of the bill, I only ask for the guarantee that every teacher who is entrusted with the responsibility of a management mission will receive training; This does not in any way prevent pre-training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u349	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u350	This is an important debate. If appointed directors could only be full professors, this would help a lot from the point of view of training. That is what Amendment No 60, which has just fallen, proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u351	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u352	The same was true of Amendment No 195: the existence of initial training should not be a barrier to the inclusion of teachers on the aptitude list, and it would be possible to train teachers immediately after their appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u353	At the request of the Government, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u354	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u355	It is intended to clarify the situation of the very many "functioning" who are spoken of too little. If they wish to register on the aptitude list, they will have to do so within two years of taking up their duties. This would allow them to value their experience and benefit from the training provided for teachers who wish to register on this list.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u357	Unfavorable opinion. In addition to the regulatory nature of the amendment, you introduce rigidity by setting a maximum time limit for inclusion on the fitness list. What would happen if a "functioning", after three or four years without wanting to register on the aptitude list, wanted to do so later in another department because he moved?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u359	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u360	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u361	We have previously adopted Amendment No 236, which seeks to ensure that only teachers in schools who have completed three years of their duties and who have received training as school principals can be placed on the list of aptitudes. This raises some difficulties. Amendment No 165 has fallen. I addressed two major issues: the common foundation school, which could operate with a common direction between a primary school and a college; and private education under contract, which we have not yet mentioned. When I raised this issue in committee, I was told that we would debate it in public. The text, as drafted after the adoption of Amendment No 236, no longer allows a second-degree teacher to run a private primary school. It therefore challenges the management of private education schools under contract. I want to hear from you on this point, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u362	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u363	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u364	I am very embarrassed by the fact that the text does not define the role of teachers acting as principal: this means that a teacher in schools could function for years, without necessarily having received training – I have tabled an amendment on this point which will be discussed earlier, but only with a view to inclusion on the aptitude list. This poses a problem for the directors, who have been trained and registered on the aptitude list. Why not include in the draft law a provision on teachers acting as directors, since the text specifically concerns training? They should be mentioned for the sake of clarity. While the importance of the principal is intended to be enshrined in this proposal, there is no room for teachers acting as principals and for their potential career development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u365	I have before me two amendments, Nos 101 and 180, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u366	Proposed by the Red Pens collective, and on the basis of the fact that initial training is not sufficient for the newly appointed directors, it provides for assistance in the appropriation of this function in order to enable directors or directors to acquire certain knowledge and skills more quickly and to adapt more easily to the realities of the field. The one-year follow-up would be carried out by the electoral district team.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u367	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u368	It was written by my colleague Emmanuelle Anthoine and aims to clarify, after paragraph 8, that the NIEs accompany the directors in their first year, in order to facilitate their entry into office.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u370	These amendments fall within the regulatory area. They are intended to provide pointless precision, because, like the new teachers, the new directors, when appointed, are obviously accompanied by their circuit INS, which would be on their side if they were in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u371	The regulatory field again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u372	It is true that the legislative part of the Education Code is very brief. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u374	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u375	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u376	We wondered when you would invoke the regulatory area – here we are! You're putting forward a bill. If the entire content of the text falls within the regulatory area – like the landfills, which we will mention just now – what is the usefulness of this text?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u377	It's communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u378	As we strive to improve your proposal, you are content to reply systematically that our amendments fall within the regulatory area. The argument seems a little light to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u379	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u380	I agree with what my colleague Larive has said: the proposed provisions are well in the regulatory field, and we keep repeating that! Why is this bill, which is ultimately of little use, when everything is in the regulatory field? Understand our surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u381	Our disarray, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u382	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u383	Although it deals with an issue that can be considered to be in the regulatory field, it aims to reaffirm that the rules of the departmental movement in which school principals participate for their assignment will be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u384	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u385	The proposed measure falls within the regulatory area. It would be imprudent to freeze it in the law. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u386	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u387	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u388	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u389	The whole meaning of the amendment was to reaffirm that only the departmental movement is a guarantee of real transparency, thanks to the rules and criteria known in advance that govern it. In my opinion, it would be preferable to write it down, and I will continue with my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u390	Do you know section 37 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u391	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman's Amendment No. 164 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u392	School principals are already receiving continuing training. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u393	I call Mrs Zivka Park to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u394	The period of confinement that we went through recalled, if necessary, the key role that the school plays in the socialization of children from the first years. But what should be a place of learning and exchange can sometimes, unfortunately, become a place of suffering. Our responsibility is collective, as must the response to school harassment. As my colleague, Mrs Granjus, pointed out, much has been done since 2017. I want to say hello to him. While the Education Code entrusts school administrators with the responsibility of ensuring the protection and safety of children against all forms of violence and discrimination, many directors find themselves deprived when faced with a situation of school harassment. This bill provides an opportunity to engage in a discussion on the need to ensure that school principals receive, during their initial training, more comprehensive preparation for dealing with situations of school harassment, as well as the awareness-raising and prevention measures to be applied in their schools, so that we can finally stem this scourge. Directors cannot take responsibility for prevention, awareness-raising and management of school harassment without better support and comprehensive training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u396	The issue of school harassment, which we discussed in the discussion of Mrs Granjus' amendment, is fundamental. When talking about continuing or initial training, it is often explained that this problem concerns secondary education. But there is harassment in primary school. On this subject, long remained taboo, the word begins to free itself. The training of teachers and principals is essential in this regard. However, training issues fall within the regulatory area. I therefore maintain my answer and ask you to withdraw your amendment, not because it concerns a fundamental subject, but because it concerns the regulatory field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u397	Again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u398	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u399	I can assure you, as I do systematically when it comes to school harassment, that we are in no way neglecting this phenomenon. I had already begun to answer on this point earlier. I would like to recall that anti-harassment training is now one of the essential elements of the training of teachers in secondary schools and teachers, as defined by the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust and subsequent texts. Combating harassment is a central component of teacher training. Harassment referents are also appointed in each department. No school can escape this policy, which requires a national vision, framework and impetus, but also local training and involvement. The issue is therefore dealt with extensively. We must, however, make further progress. I therefore share the spirit in which you tabled this amendment, even if I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u400	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u401	You will not have escaped, Madam rapporteur, that this was an appeal amendment: I understand that training issues fall within the regulatory area. You stressed that it is often thought that school harassment only concerns secondary education. But it can start very early, from primary school. I again experienced a situation of this type last week, in this case a case of harassment in CP, and I found that the Director was distraught with this situation. With this amendment, I call on you to take full account of the phenomenon, because in truth, in the field, school principals need this training. They already have a complicated job – everyone here is convinced of it –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u402	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u403	... and school harassment can sometimes lead to very serious and complex cases. Their initial training must therefore enable them to be able to deal with this issue and, at least, to be made aware of it. I withdraw my amendment, hoping that this appeal will be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u404	Why remove it? We were going to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u405	I have before me three amendments, Nos 217, 198 and 144, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u406	It's editorial. The text proposed after the introduction of the new paragraph 5 by the Commission referred only to teachers in schools. It is important to add teachers, some of whom are eligible for leadership positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u407	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u408	We believe that teachers acting as principals deserve recognition. We would therefore like them to be automatically added to the aptitude list.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u409	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u410	It would seem preferable, in the interests of consistency, to specify that directors currently on the aptitude list will automatically be included in the list at the time of enactment of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u411	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u412	With regard to Amendment No 198, since teachers acting as principals are necessarily teachers of schools or teachers, they are automatically included in the aptitude list. Your request is therefore satisfied. With regard to Amendment No 144, it goes without saying that, unless otherwise specified, the provision contained in the draft law will enter into force when it is promulgated. I would like to reply to Mr Reiss, whose amendment No 165 has fallen. You mentioned the very important subject of private school, which we discussed in committee. I confirm that the issue that you raise is a matter of regulation, and that the Ministry of National Education is aware of it. The fact that paragraph (3) simply refers to teachers, in a comprehensive manner, should enable the regulations governing private education under contract to apply without difficulty. Nevertheless, the departments of the Ministry are alerted and will be vigilant when drafting decrees. I am against Amendments Nos 198 and 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u413	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u414	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u415	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u416	I am pleased that we are exchanging on this issue, because we are all committed to freedom of education. In this context, the question arises: should a private school principal on contract be included on an aptitude list? I have not heard the minister speak on this very simple issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u417	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u418	It is intended to include in the law the principle that teachers acting as directors receive training within three months of taking up their duties. This training will help them not to be lost in the face of their many tasks and can be reinforced by the training they will take when they register on the aptitude lists. We are about to pass a law on principals. Do the teachers in office sign up for it completely? Will they consider, for example, that it will be up to them to endorse the decisions, as provided for in Article 1? If it is important to say so, perhaps it would have been as important to write it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u419	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u420	In principle, we all agree on the importance of acting directors, who perform leadership tasks without training. Efforts have already been made to train and support them in the field. It must still be possible to improve their situation, when they are appointed at the last moment. However, this remains in the regulatory field: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u421	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u422	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u423	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 79 and 145. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u424	This editorial amendment aims to preserve the optional aspect of the scheme. This paragraph allows the school principal to propose to the inspector of national education, after consultation with the council of teachers, specific training actions at his school. This is therefore a possibility. However, the wording reveals an obligation. It is therefore necessary to return to the original idea of this proposal, which was to introduce flexibility, in order to take into account local realities. Above all, it is important to give managers room for manoeuvre, which is one of the keys to their success, and therefore to the success of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u425	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u426	Like Mr Minot, I think it seems more flexible to allow school principals the opportunity to propose specific training measures if they are needed, rather than forcing them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u427	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u428	We talked about the possibility, because at the core it is training actions in response to the needs of the team. If there is no need in the school board or teachers' council, it is obvious that the director will not offer training. What is important is that if the team needs training, the director can offer it. That is why I agree with the current wording of the paragraph. The Director shall propose the training in case of identified need within his team. On the other hand, if we adopt the wording "can propose", it would mean that in case of need identified the director might very well not propose training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u429	The difference is subtle...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u430	Yes, she is. Ms. Descamps and Mr. Minot were right in stating that such a possibility arose from a discussion in the Council of Masters. Opinion against these two identical amendments, which are already satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u431	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u432	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u433	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u434	Once it is not customary, I do not agree with you, Madam rapporteur. In your argument, you have used the words "the Director may propose it" and these identical amendments are intended to use the words "may propose" so these amendments are in line with your intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u435	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u436	It aims to ensure that all teachers who wish to become directors will have access to training. More broadly, teacher training is based on a departmentally declined academic catalogue while meeting national priorities. If, in some cases, local proposals are incorporated, in fact, the mandatory volume of national priorities renders any other proposal obsolete. The Director should have greater flexibility in the choice of the courses offered: so-called local training should be deducted from the 18 hours of continuing training provided for in the service obligations, so that they are not taken outside working time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u437	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u438	The amendment, which aims at training courses "in particular for teachers wishing to become directors", would bring us into a list logic, which I do not think is appropriate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u439	The rapporteur, Mrs Cécile Rilhac, has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u440	This is an amendment of consequence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u441	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 201, 98, 200, 140 corrected, 237 corrected, 10, 158, 226, 80, 103 and 75, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u442	It is intended to set discharge times by decree. As many of us have stressed during the general discussion, the time devoted to exercising responsibilities cannot be the result of a purely mathematical calculation. Some tasks are incompressible and some periods are more burdensome than others. Consideration must also be given to the problems specific to the single classes. Time is therefore the priority. The aim of this amendment is to reaffirm the principle of discharge for all school principals. The Ministry had also given interesting figures, as part of its consultation, on the number of hours that teachers in schools spend on all these tasks. This provision, which is of a legislative nature, provides for financial compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u443	On Amendment No 237, as corrected, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u444	Currently, depending on the number and nature, maternal or elementary, of the classes in his establishment, the director has a more or less significant discharge. However, the specific characteristics of the classes or schools are not taken into account in this calculation, even though there is no doubt that the number of pupils with special educational needs taken care of in the school has a direct influence on the workload of the directors, as these pupils require a special investment. This is the case for ULIS classes – local units for school inclusion –, UPE2A – teaching units for arriving allophone students – and schools in REP or REP+ – priority education network. The purpose of this amendment is to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u445	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u446	In order to better meet the needs, we believe that we need to change the criteria for granting discharges, adapting them to the reality of school principal's work. Perhaps the number of students in the school should be given priority over the number of classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u447	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 140, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u448	Landfills must also be granted on the basis of "the arrangements facilitating the reception of all pupils in the school", such as the ULIS classes – however, it is not a question of drawing up a list. This applies, for example, to students with disabilities or allophones. This additional work which this reception represents for the Director must be taken into account to calculate the discharge time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u449	The rapporteur, Mrs Cécile Rilhac, has the floor to support Amendment No 237, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u450	It aims to bring about a real paradigm shift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u451	That's right. This is the subject of a law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u452	Today, teachers are provided with a discharge for the management of the school. Tomorrow, thanks to this law, it is the directors who will be responsible for teaching or for training or coordination missions – all of which they are already carrying out. By amending the first sentence of paragraph 7, we remove the threshold of eight classes – you, Mr Reiss, who drew my attention to this point during the debate – which might render the text unconstitutional. This allows me to answer a large number of questions according to which the text would cover only important primary schools, with more than eight classes. By this amendment, I propose that you include in the law, in order not to go back on it again, criteria other than the number of classes, because he is not the only one who gives an overload of work to the school principal – we all agree on this point. Mrs Descamps, you were right to recall existing devices, such as ULIS classes or those intended for allophone students. In addition to these facilities, students with special needs, who do not go through educational teams and do not enter into a system, but who need specific follow-up, which takes a lot of time for the director to organise. Special needs must therefore be part of the discharge criteria for school principals. Mrs Dubois, you mentioned the RPI. Today, only the REPs and REP+ can benefit from additional discharges. Perhaps it would also be appropriate for RPIs, when they bring together several small schools, to allow directors to benefit from additional discharge because of their specific nature. Ms Fannette Charvier has often referred in committee to orphan schools: they have the characteristics of priority areas, without being linked to a REP or REP + network. The amendment will provide an additional discharge to an orphan school principal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the EDS group]] This change, contrary to what some would claim, is not a step backwards: it allows for the introduction of new criteria specific to the school, regardless of the number of classes. This will allow us to grant discharges to school principals from one to thirty classes according to the needs of the management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u453	At the request of the group The Republicans, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u454	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u455	This amendment, which echoes that of the committee, is drafted so that it can be presented by a Member – we were afraid that it would fall under Article 40 of the Constitution. We therefore asked that a discharge scheme be established by decree for schools of less than eight classes. Finally, the committee tabled its own amendment. How did we get there? Everywhere, we realized that, for school principals, something was wrong. Parliamentary reports have been prepared on this subject. We may have disagreements, for example on the creation of a hierarchical status, but we all agree that directors have too many missions, too many activities, too few allowances and there is a problem with discharge in small schools. On the latter point, criteria exist, but many factors, such as the socio-occupational category of parents, are not taken into account. A bill is finally being discussed, but we are told that it is not necessary, that all these provisions fall within the regulatory level, that everything will be done by decree and that we must trust the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u456	Exactly! What are we doing here?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u457	I will, but now that we are here, we need extremely precise commitments! We're being told about new criteria. All right, that's what we asked. But we always talk about the number of classes, not the number of students. What will happen in schools of more than eight classes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u458	It doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u459	Will the directors still benefit from a full discharge? These questions need to be decided so that we can decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u460	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u461	It is a bit difficult to defend amendments after that of the committee, which we have just seen. When an opposition member submits an amendment, he is obliged to specify that the conditions for discharge will be laid down by decree, for fear of his amendment being retold. There the committee tabled an amendment, and we do not know very well what we are going to vote on. My amendment No. 158 was intended to include in the law that school principals of less than eight classes could also have a number of days of discharge incompressible and proportionate to the number of classes they were in charge of. I agree with Mrs Descamps that this criterion of the number of classes may not be sufficient, and I think it is appropriate to take other criteria into account. However, the inclusion of this first criterion in the law seemed to me at least a good start. If a statute is to be created for principals, it must apply to all schools, not only to the larger ones or at least to those of more than eight classes. It is clear from the many discussions that I have had with school principals that the inclusion of this principle in the law would also encourage these directors to actually benefit from the days of discharge, because it must be acknowledged that these days regularly pass by, if you pass the phrase, for lack of time. It's paradoxical, but it's reality! School principals are always in a hurry: they run behind time and are adding a growing number of activities. That is why the inclusion of these days of discharge in the law, black on white, seemed to me a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u462	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor to support Amendment No. 226.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u463	It aims to ensure discharge time for school principals with fewer than eight classes. It echoes the committee's amendment, but with more specific commitments. Landfills already exist most of the time in practice, but it would be useful to set minimum thresholds in the law in order to provide guarantees to directors. This amendment therefore proposes a 25% discharge in schools with one to four classes and a 50% discharge in schools with five to seven classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u464	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u465	I do not know if it is worth defending our amendments: since the beginning of this debate, with the articles and amendments, we are going from surprise to surprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u466	Simulac de démocratie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u467	There is no doubt that school principals lack time to carry out the very many tasks entrusted to them at best. This applies not only to principals of more than eight classes, but to all principals regardless of the size of the school. As we recall, I have the impression that the Government is deaf to our proposal since article 2 relieves school principals of at least eight classes without giving the same treatment to heads of smaller schools, who, on a different scale, have similar needs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Amendment No 80 is therefore intended to make up for this omission. It redefines the partial discharge time granted to principals by creating a layer for schools of between one and three classes and granting additional discharge time to principals of four to seven classes. Many of us here are elected in rural areas; That is why I ask you not to forget the small schools in the rural territories, which make the villages live, and to give them a future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u468	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u469	In the Committee on Finance, we are not being listened to, but I am sure that here you will listen to us! Thus begins the explanatory statement of our amendment: "75 % of schools have less than eight classes, yet no additional discharge is provided for these directors and directors. And now it's over, because we're getting a last-minute amendment, Amendment No. 237 corrected, which completely eliminates the meaning of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u470	I'm not on the left, but she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u471	We can cry about Mrs. Christine Renon, but still... That's amazing! Since you are committed to democracy, Minister, you will allow me to remind you of what came out of the consultation with the school directors that you yourself organized. In the summary of this consultation, it is stated that 44% of directors spend more than 21 hours a week on school management tasks and that 46% spend 11 to 20 hours on it. In addition, 87% of managers agree with the following statement: "When you are in class, you are often interrupted to respond to a solicitation related to your management function. » I understand that there are specificities, but we can't go back to the starting point! We do not want to refer to a decree and therefore propose the following rules, derived from the experience of field professionals: "In schools of one to three classes, the principal is discharged from one quarter of his classroom service. It will always be possible to clarify things. I continue: "In schools of four to six classes, the principal is discharged from half of his classroom service. It could even be granted a larger discharge if it is concerned with the specificities that you refer to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u472	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u473	We all agree that the problem of school principals is that of the absence of discharge, as they flow under the administrative tasks that have accumulated exponentially over the years. I am thinking of personalized educational success programmes – PPRE –, individualised reception projects – PAI –, school monitoring teams – ESS – and educational teams, parent meetings, national evaluations, and I'm moving on. So we all agree on one point: we need to increase landfills. This amendment proposes a gradation: one day of discharge per month in single-class schools, one quarter of discharge in two or three-class schools, one half discharge in four to six-class schools, one full discharge beyond. All gradations are possible. As we have already said, this bill excludes all rural schools, which are the majority in our country. My constituency of 173 communes does not have a single school of eight classes. All our RPIs and schools are forgotten! With regard to the rapporteur's amendment, I hear from all our colleagues who will say, in familiar language, that it is at the head of the client! What is not said, but what will be written, is that the budget envelope in the hands of DASEN and the academic inspection is not elastic. You are talking about the specifics of schools, but I already imagine what will happen: we will say that this five-class school is in a very difficult situation, and we will grant its director a discharge, which will consume the credits that would have allowed the director of an eight-class school so-called easier to benefit from a discharge as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u474	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u475	In my view, the rules cannot be written that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u476	What is the opinion of the committee on all the amendments to this joint debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u477	The rapporteur will say that this is a matter of regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u478	Disfavorable to all amendments other than that of the committee. I'd like to go back to Mrs. Thill's last words. The granting of landfills will not be at the discretion of DASEN. We write in the law what has not been included in the law until then: we seal the principle of discharge and specify that it is subject to different criteria. It seems to me, moreover, that one of the amendments was intended precisely to sanctify the discharges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u479	Payed by who? The budget envelopes are not elastic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u480	Mrs Rubin, you say that you represent the unions, but one of the first things they said when we tabled this bill is that we break their consultation at the time when it was to reopen. But we have just given back our hand to the minister and the trade union organizations, so that they can agree...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u481	That's what we're worried about!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u482	... on these criteria of specificity and on the distribution of the 6000 posts we create in national education, which will be able to benefit the smallest schools, as Mrs Thill wanted, or the very large schools where the directors are already being discharged at 100% today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I knew you would seek to blacken the picture, but agree that there is still progress: these principles are enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u483	We need commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u484	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u485	I will only add a few words to what the rapporteur has just said, which may reassure you: the aim is obviously not to reduce the number of discharges. On the contrary, there will be more discharges in the future, but, as the rapporteur has just said, we cannot go further in the legislative definition without creating rigidities which you would be right to complain about afterwards. This text sets out a new framework, which has the merit, firstly of devoting discharges, secondly of allowing account to be taken of specificities. This consideration will not be at the head of the client – you are right to ask the question but we must immediately answer that objective criteria will be defined by regulation. These criteria are precisely being discussed in the context of the social dialogue. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] If we were to fix them here, first we would create additional rigidity, second you would be entitled to blame us for short-circuiting the ongoing social dialogue on the regulatory elements. Indeed, consultations with trade unions take place in the perspective of these future regulations, as was the case in the proposal for a law. It is a two-storey system all that is more normal, including a fairly broad legislative framework that still has the merit of giving legal existence to landfills and regulatory clarifications. I repeat, acting differently would mean rigidizing the system and being unfaithful to our social agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u486	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u487	We're moving forward: you're completely emptying your law! We're almost there and maybe in the end we'll agree because there's nothing left in this law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u488	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u489	As you propose a threshold of eight classes, we return to the status quo of the thirteen classes. As for consecrating the discharge, there is no need for a law for this, the word already appears in the dictionary. Why not instead include in the law the specific criteria which you say will be fixed by decree, finally reopening the box of regulations? [[Smile]] We have to ask ourselves the question: what is this law for? We can sum up Amendment No 237 as corrected in a few words: from now on everything will be as before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u490	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u491	Your amendment could agree with us, Madam rapporteur, if only we had commitments from the minister on the discharge criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u492	There won't be any!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u493	When it's blurred, there's a wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u494	But you're just telling us that we're going to take into account the additional specificities: it doesn't tell us if there will be more landfills! You will understand that despite all the desire we have to trust you, we find that this is not sufficiently explicit. I intend subsequently to defend an amendment aimed at sanctuarising the discharge time, even if you have told me that this term cannot be used, because we all agree on the need to do so; This requires more resources. All of us here tell you that discharge must be possible for all school principals and we want a firm commitment from the minister on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u495	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u496	I have the right not to always trust the Government! This is even the role of the opposition, and it also stems from an extremely different view of society on certain points. Too often political leaders, whatever their side, fail to honour their commitments, to the detriment of politics as a whole. In this case I have some very specific questions. When will the decree that you are about to publish take effect? It was hoped that this provision would be implemented, perhaps not at the start of the school year but at the beginning of the school year. That's my first question. Will the right to a total discharge be protected by this decree and from what number of classes – it seems that you no longer speak in terms of the number of pupils – even if it lowers its threshold of application, to seven classes for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u497	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u498	The summary refers to particular classes, such as ULIS, REPs or orphan schools. Does the question remain open or do you already know what criteria will be included in the decree? These are some of the details we need to answer the question we are being asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u499	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u500	[[Rires on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Well, I, Mrs Faucillon, trust the minister! The many school principals who follow our discussions understand what specificities and criteria we are talking about, whether it is rural, small classes or everything that is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. We will be able to clarify very quickly the details of these specific landfills, which for me are a very great step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u501	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u502	That's all for it! I appreciate the baroud d'honneur of my colleagues, who have stifled to try to improve the text of this seventh paragraph, particularly with regard to landfills. We know that school principals need time and this paragraph is intended precisely to give them time. Obviously, however, we were totally rolled into the flour and the mountain gave birth to a mouse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u503	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u504	From a mule!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u505	How can you, Madam rapporteur, accept this diktat of the ministry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u506	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u507	...so different from what you defended during your auditions? In particular, I remember a round table with the unions, during which you held a speech diametrically opposed to the one you are holding today. Do you really believe that your amendment, proposed to the rescue during a meeting of the committee held under Rule 88 and which obviously deserves the applause of the majority, is a great step forward, while it completely emptys the text of its content, to the benefit of the regulatory power?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u508	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u509	For me, this text is pure communication from a majority who despises school principals. The masks have fallen and we deplore him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u510	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u511	Can you assure us, Madam rapporteur or Minister, that for the same number of classes, since we return to the criterion of the number of classes after considering retaining the number of students, the school principal who receives a quarter of discharge will benefit from the same time of discharge under this provision? In other words, can she only benefit school principals? For my part, it is not conceivable that it could be otherwise when what they need is time. Can you commit yourself to this today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u512	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u513	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u514	This debate is obviously as interesting as it is necessary and I fully understand your questions. That the word of trust is so often spoken seems to me very important in itself. It does not mean that you would be obliged to be in my opinion, but that we are obviously destined to accomplish what we are committed to in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u515	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u516	All you have to do is refer to the debate on the bill for a school of trust to convince you of it, even if these commitments are not all fulfilled at the same speed. For example, we have committed ourselves here to massive job creations at AESH and 4000 of these positions will be created next year. So I have no difficulty in telling you, Mrs Descamps, that in terms of discharge there will be no regression, that there will even be a progression: that is the very purpose of everything we do. It would be a strange calculation on our part to ask here that the law enshrine the landfills to reduce them immediately after. I think that would be seen and that you would not fail to stress it! We're not bad enough, we're not crazy enough to do things like this. So we are not going to reduce the number of landfills. Instead, we are working to increase them in Budget 2021 and this number will not be declining in the coming year. It is also easy for me to assure you that there will be no challenge to the right to a full discharge. Finally, a very important point for all of you who are concerned about the use of public funds, these additional resources devoted to landfills will be articulated on qualitative issues, for the benefit of schools, students and school principals. Clearly, these criteria should not simply be quantitative thresholds; They will have to be as qualitative in view of the great stakes that you have mentioned yourself and that I resume without difficulty in my own account, especially since this is already on the social agenda that we have defined with the unions. I am thinking in particular of the issues at stake with regard to the ULIS, the reception of students with disabilities, which has been increasing in recent years, as is the number of AESHs, whose situation we are improving. This is one of the elements to be taken into account when considering the evolution of the duties of school principals, as these new challenges result in an increase in their burdens but also in the support they receive through the AESHs, whose management in turn creates additional administrative burdens. It is all these issues that are being debated in the context of social dialogue and a law could not go down to these details, it seems to me to be self-evident. On the other hand, I have no difficulty in making a commitment that the issue of disability will be central, for example. Similarly, the presence of allophone students is a specificity that will need to be taken into account when it comes to discharge. I therefore consent to the commitment of a "cliquet effect" before you: we must not step back but move forward in the matter of discharge. As for telling you to what extent, it will obviously depend on the budget for 2021 and the capabilities it will give us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u517	So we need to sign you a blank check?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u518	Well! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u519	I cannot commit to the level of budgetary appropriations, but we are working on them. This will necessarily be progress, and this progress must be linked to qualitative issues, according to broad categories such as those I have just mentioned. The details will be clarified by the social dialogue, which is an additional guarantee: they will be the result of a joint work with the trade union organisations, not written one morning on a tabletop. In fact, it is very rare for this to happen, despite what is sometimes claimed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the EDS group]] So yes, this issue will continue to be a matter of social dialogue, and yes, it will lead to progress on discharge, not only in quantitative terms, but also in qualitative terms: both go together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u520	I put to the vote Amendment No 237, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u521	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 77 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 60 Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u522	Mr Lionel Causse, in support of Amendment No. 85, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u523	There are two types of RPI: dispersed RPIs, where each school gathers pupils from several communes by educational level and retains its legal status and school management, and concentrated RPIs, where all pupils in the communes concerned are schooled in one of these communes. A discharge is planned for the school directors of dispersed RPIs, but not for those of concentrated RPIs, despite the coordination that is actually taking place there, especially in relations with local authorities. The aim of this amendment is therefore to harmonise the criteria for granting discharge to school principals throughout the RPI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u524	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u525	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u526	As a follow-up to the long discussion we have just had, the IPRs will fall within the specific criteria. The proposed measure is from the regulatory register and this amendment will be satisfied. I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u527	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u528	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u529	I have before me three amendments, Nos 146, 66 and 102, which may be the subject of a joint debate. Amendments Nos 66 and 102 are identical. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u530	It has two objectives. First of all, it is a question of deleting a somewhat talkative provision. In fact, it is not essential for the school principal to "take part in the supervision of the education system" in the education code because it is by its very nature what he does. On the other hand, since the school principal is in constant dialogue with the district inspector and rarely sees DASEN, it is more natural for the dialogue with the district inspector to be established before being validated by the academy inspector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u531	Amendment No. 66 Mr. Frédéric Reiss is defended. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u532	Article 2 provides that the school principal shall now participate in the supervision of the education system. However, the Ministry of National Education lists three categories of supervisory staff in this system: executive staff, inspection staff and administrative staff. The school principal does not fall into the last two categories, as he is not a senior executive, he is not responsible for inspection, nor does he work in the administration. As for the management staff, the Ministry of National Education defines them as follows: "They participate in the supervision of the education system and in educational activities. They are mainly responsible for the management of institutions or training under the Minister for National Education, who directs the institution as a representative of the State, under the authority of the Rector and the Academic Director of the National Education Services. They conduct the educational and educational policy of the institution, in consultation with the entire educational community, to provide students with the best conditions for learning. » This is what this paragraph provides for: the principals of schools are assimilated to management staff, that is to say to the heads of secondary schools, as denounced by the Parisian inter-union of the first degree, composed of five teachers' unions. This measure draws up a vertical school, which calls into question the democratic functioning of the school, at the heart of which is the collective work and to which we are very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u533	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u534	To clarify in the law today that school principals participate in the supervision of the education system is precisely to recognize this role as a framework that they have held beautifully throughout the confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u535	Small batch of consolation! A lollipop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u536	School directors and principals held their schools, first to close them and accompany students, parents and teachers and to set up the pedagogical continuity, and then, gradually, since 11 May, to achieve the deconfination. I am therefore not ashamed to say in the law that they are executives of the education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u537	They'll be happy! They'll thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u538	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Larive, I therefore disagree with you. Another point: you said earlier that you should not be "parisianocentré". However, you only refer here to the Parisian intersyndicale.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u539	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u540	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u541	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u542	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u543	Madam rapporteur, with what you have just said, we are moving even faster! After you have emptied the law, you are now in contradiction with what you said shortly before. You have just created a framework status different from the one that already exists for directors. As for the interunion, it comes from where she wants! I hear everyone, know it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u544	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 9 and 105. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u545	The amendments tabled in the context of the original draft law sometimes end up being inconsistent with the text as drafted today. Thus, the two sentences that we refer to here and which conclude paragraph 7 no longer correspond very well to the current wording of the article. Mission transfers become possible, even though missions which correspond for example to UPE2A, or teaching units for allophone pupils arriving, could fall within certain specific criteria... We don't know what's going on anymore. The text of your bill seemed less incoherent to me than the new wording of the article just passed. I thought, moreover, that my amendment would fall because of the rewriting of the article and I do not understand the logic of all this. I am therefore not going to defend him mordicus, since I myself consider that he is no longer consistent with the text in its present form.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u546	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u547	It makes me jump! Coordinating – something that principals do – is not necessarily a framework. Mr Larive also quoted the Parisian trade unions, but today, in some 20 cities, many teachers were demonstrating about this law and everything else, because not everyone has the same faith as the majority, the same trust in the minister – and besides, we are not here for that. I come to my amendment. Minister, if you are so sensitive to the consultations, you know that for 83% of them, school principals with whom you have investigated say they want to focus on the collective follow-up of students, teamwork and the development of support mechanisms. However, this is not what this paragraph 7 proposes, which provides for class discharge – if there is a discharge, because it no longer seems to me very safe. But, in fact, I am sure that there will be landfills, because there must be control: you want to create controllers, who will themselves be responsible for new tasks, sometimes external to the operation of the school and dealing for example with training – outside, the trainers! – or on the coordination of the localised inclusive support hubs, the famous PIALs, and priority education networks. However, these missions are already carried out by people and the controllers you want to establish will have many other missions and will not even be discharged from admiring tasks or security issues. We understand that the only purpose of this law is to install controllers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u548	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u549	This law reverses a paradigm.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u550	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u551	When we understand this reversal, things become very simple: the directors will now be responsible for teaching missions, as is already the case today – in a ten-class school, the director is discharged at 50% and, at the same time, as coordinator for the PRN, the priority education network, he is also discharged at 50%, so that he does not have the class he should normally have. That is how we hear the different missions. The landfills will exist, as the minister has said again, and we trust him not to destroy the current landfill system, or even to strengthen it and anchor it much more in today's reality. The principals will be well discharged from teaching. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u552	It's a complex thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u553	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u554	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u555	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u556	Mr. Minister, you explained earlier that we would not go back and that we could do the least. However, the situation in Paris is special, as I pointed out in committee, because it is from five classes that the discharge takes place, so that the principals do not have an obligation to do so. I would therefore like to make sure, because this has not been confirmed very clearly during the examination of the text in committee, that there will be no change for Paris, and that the agreement between the City of Paris and the State, under which the City assumes the financial compensation and pays to the Ministry of Education the remuneration of the additional staff performing the duties from which the principals are discharged, will remain valid. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u557	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u558	If I have understood correctly, Madam rapporteur, the discharges that will now be granted to directors – since we need to change paradigms – are intended for training, teaching and coordination missions. However, what the interested parties are asking is to be able to assume their leadership role, which they fail to fulfil. In fact, they are currently being unloaded from teaching in a class, half-discharge or one-quarter discharge, to assume leadership functions, and sometimes find that this is not enough. It may even happen that they are not discharged at all, which is even less sufficient. Have the directors really asked to take on training and teaching duties? They are not IMF – teacher trainers – or holders of CAFIPEMF, the certificate of aptitude for the functions of teacher or teacher of the teacher-training schools, and did not necessarily take time to train others – which, moreover, is done naturally in the school. What they need is time for their leadership missions – which include PRPs, or personalized educational success programs, IAPs, or individualized reception projects, SSEs, or school monitoring teams, educational teams, monitoring teams, national assessments, parent meetings and children with special needs – and not to ensure a role for IMF, which they are already doing in their schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u559	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u560	These two questions are addressed directly to me. The situation in Paris, which Mr Larive mentioned earlier, was peculiar and, in a way, better for those concerned than that prevailing in the rest of France, is not called into question. It is, moreover, interesting to take stock and examine the forces and possible limits of the Parisian system, in order to see if it can inspire us for the rest of the country. With regard to discharges linked to functions, I will have to repeat myself. In fact, two issues are linked: landfills and administrative relief. In both cases, it is neither desirable nor possible to go into detail within the framework of a law, as this would rigidize the scheme and would be counterproductive in relation to our objectives. On the other hand, what is clearly shown in the preparatory work, as in the bill itself, is that we want to reduce administrative burdens and improve the system of discharges. This must be very clear, and I stress it all the more, since some commentators may be trying to get me to say the opposite from tomorrow: firstly, we are going to reduce administrative burdens and, secondly, we are going to improve landfills. Perhaps I will have to repeat it often in the coming times, but anyone who says that we have said otherwise will not tell the truth. This is a commitment, and we will return to it with regard to administrative burdens. The planned relief will be based on the model we adopted for the moratorium, which shows that we are able to do so when we have the will to do so. There will also be mechanisms for providing additional support to school principals. This is one of the most concrete points that emerge most clearly from the survey. You can see that this bill is a driving force, in the sense that it is intended to promote improvements that we will eventually make even if it does not make them all explicit. Let us not forget, Mrs Faucillon, that this text, which was discussed here at first reading, would have any possible effects only for the beginning of 2021. We are, however, able, through regulations, to make changes in certain areas – not all of them, and you will be able to judge me on coins not in six months or in one year but in two weeks' time – when preparing for the next start-up. What we are about to announce will not really be a surprise since it is the result of dialogue with the trade unions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The social dialogue and the possibility of taking regulatory action are likely to bring some flexibility to our action. And, once again, what we are proposing here is far from hollow: a better definition of the discharge framework, linked to other provisions that we will then consider as administrative aid to the school principal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u561	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-24-O1246.u562	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law creating the position of school principal. The meeting is adjourned.
