ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u1	The President of the National Assembly received a letter from Mr Ludovic Loquet, Member of Parliament for the sixth constituency of Pas-de-Calais, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of Sunday, September 27, 2020. Act is given of his resignation, which will be notified to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u2	The next item is the debate on the bill to speed up and simplify public action (No. 2750 corrected, 3347).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u3	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u4	It is an honour for me to be with you today to introduce this bill to speed up and simplify public action, the result of specific work that has brought together, in its preparatory phase, several ministries and many parliamentarians, including our rapporteur. This ambitious text, which reflects the commitments of the Government and the President of the Republic – meeting the expectations of the French – was conceived as a response to the great national debate, with a view to bringing public action closer to the citizens. In the current context, this text seems to me to be particularly acute, both the exceptional health situation we know has revealed the need to simplify public action in all areas. The revival of our economy requires that this action be stepped up, because administrative simplification is one of the prerequisites for this recovery. It is therefore up to us to bring operational simplifications as quickly as possible to all actors, in order to overcome the irritants which sometimes significantly slow down the resumption of economic activity and the acts of the daily life of our fellow citizens. As Minister for Transformation and the Public Service, it is my responsibility to translate these commitments into action as quickly as possible, which is why one of the priorities of my road map is the simplification of public action. The simplification plan will consist of several components – which will not only be found in this bill, because the logic of administrative simplification must infuse all public action in order to translate into reality in the daily lives of our citizens and in the lives of public officials. My role is to raise the issue of blockages and to identify the too cumbersome and complex administrative procedures that affect the lives of our citizens and businesses, in order to simplify them and make them more effective. This is the very essence of this bill to speed up and simplify public action: it is not a question of stacking up abstract simplification measures once again, but rather of responding concretely and operationally to these blockages and complexities. That is exactly what we are doing in this bill, on two levels. We do this first by tackling the most complex administrative procedures, both for our citizens and for public officials, in particular by removing administrative commissions that extend the time for decision-making. The acceleration of decision-making will free up time, allowing public officials to focus on the core of their mission at the service of our fellow citizens: this is the object of Title I. The purpose of the bill is also to place decision-making at the right level, i.e. closer to the ground, closer to the French, at the deconcentrated level. It is this level of decision rather than that of the central administration in Paris that seems to us to be the most appropriate to meet the specific needs of the French in the territories in which they live: this is the subject of Title II that I present to you today. Thus, in addition to the developments already under way at the regulatory level, we will abolish 22% of the administrative commissions, i.e. 86 out of the 294 existing committees. It is also 99% of individual administrative decisions that will now be taken at the level closest to our citizens, i.e. at the deconcentrated level, especially in the areas of health and culture – two sectors that are particularly crucial in the current context. These two headings represent the response to commitments made at the third and fourth interdepartmental committees on public transformation under the previous government. It is with this in mind and with this aim in mind that this text deals in practice with the problems of the French, whether they are users of the public service or its agents. Our commitment to simplification does not end there. I need you, ladies and gentlemen, I need each of you in each of your constituencies, not only to carry this message of simplification on behalf of the Government, but also and above all to bring back to the headquarters all the concrete blocking points I have just mentioned – because you are in the best position to identify them. While our priority is to give local public actors the tools they need to solve the problems, but also to bring out the solutions that exist at the local level, you are, alongside local elected officials – including mayors – deconcentrated services of the state and of course the prefects, the actors essential to the success of this project, which must mobilize us all and which we must lead hand in hand. In this respect, Mr rapporteur, your work on simplifying the establishment of industrial enterprises is aimed precisely at extending the scope for action at the local level to support projects that are important to local actors. It is this approach that I wish to extend and generalize with you on other issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and DEM groups]] For all these reasons, it is a pride for me to defend this text today. I know how to count on you, on your commitment to the service of French and French people, and you will of course be able to count on my own motivation to make this simplification not just a slogan, but a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u6	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u7	The acceleration of the simplification of public action is a strong expectation, regularly expressed by our fellow citizens and elected officials, and to which the Government has already endeavoured to respond through several legislative mechanisms, be it the law for a State at the service of a society of trust – ESSOC – the law on the development of housing and digital technology – ELAN – or the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises – PACTE. The origin of the bill we are introducing today is threefold. The first was to allow for simplification of administrative decisions, on the basis of the work carried out by Olivier Dussopt to mitigate the "comitology" of the administration. The second objective was to simplify the daily life of the French: the text aimed in particular at responding to the concerns expressed by our fellow citizens during the great debate. Finally, the aim was to simplify the lives of businesses; For this purpose, this text brings together the proposals contained in the framework of the 2025 Productive Pact, on which MP Guillaume Kasbarian led an important mission last year – only proposals of a legislative nature remained to be implemented, which will be done with this text. The bill was designed before the covid-19 crisis and discussed in early March in the Senate. The crisis that we are going through has shown us that we can go even further than was originally planned. The text was thus enriched by inter-ministerial work leading to the identification of two complementary types of simplification: on the one hand, the sustainability of emergency measures adopted since March 2020 and having proved their worth; on the other hand, useful simplification measures to speed up the recovery of our country. I will not go back to the first two titles, already mentioned by the Minister for Transformation and Public Service, and my speech will therefore focus on Titles III to V, which provide for simplifications for the daily lives of French and companies. The bill aims to simplify the daily lives of our citizens in very concrete situations. It is a matter of facilitating the issuance of official documents such as identity papers or driving permits, simplifying certain measures concerning our young citizens – passing a driver's licence or practicing a sport – and simplifying the opening and maintenance of the popular savings booklet – 40% of French citizens are eligible for this savings product, and it is a pity that some of them cannot actually access it, simply because they are not in a position to submit their tax declaration. The work in committee has also led to the identification of new lines of simplification to protect the French. The Early Childhood Care Order has been reinstated, which is a real step forward when we know how important child care has been during confinement. People living in residential institutions for dependent seniors – EHPAD – will be able to use their energy check to pay energy bills from their institution. Finally, an anti-squat device to act in less than 48 hours has been incorporated into the text. The bill also aims to simplify the lives of all businesses by helping to establish or expand industrial sites, without changing any standard of urban planning, archaeology or the environment – I make this point clear because it has led to misunderstandings in committee debates. The time limits for an authorisation decision are twice as long in France as in Sweden, a country which does not have to be ashamed of its environmental protection situation. First of all, it is not a matter of getting project promoters back from scratch with every legislative or regulatory change, but simply of asking them to comply with the deadlines. Secondly, we wish to facilitate the investigation of cases and to adapt the procedures to the realities of the field. In this sense, we are moving forward with the prefects by giving them some room for manoeuvre if their decisions have no environmental implications. We have also facilitated the lives of investors by creating "key-to-hand" sites for which all administrative procedures have been carried out upstream. We have seventy-eight of them today and we will continue to make progress in this area. Finally, the text aims to anticipate and facilitate procedures to speed up the roll-out of the recovery. We want to go further in value-sharing and have provisions to simplify negotiations on wage savings and self-interest agreements, in line with the CAPTE law. We also want to facilitate the public order and propose a much-anticipated measure of setting, during the two years of the recovery, a threshold of 100000 euros under which it will be possible to place orders without formalities. Finally, we are committed to protecting our agriculture and food model, and will therefore raise the threshold for lost resale for certain food products. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and DEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the simplification process we are undertaking is concrete and must be sustained. That is why Bruno Le Maire, Amélie de Montchalin and I will continue to work to accelerate the revival of our economy. By improving not only the daily lives of the French, but also the employment situation, we will provide the best response to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u8	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the bill to speed up and simplify public action, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u9	Mr. Chairman, Ministers, Mr. Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, following its consideration in the Senate, more than six months ago, the bill went from fifty to eighty-six articles and, after consideration in a special committee, there were 145 of them. First of all, let me remind you that this text is fully in line with the presidential programme: simplifying the lives of the French was at the heart of Emmanuel Macron's campaign promise. "Freedom" is the first pillar of the political project of our majority, the second being "protection". Accelerating and simplifying public action means restoring freedom to the French in their everyday lives, as well as to the companies that create jobs in our country. In order to organize the general interest, the regulatory State needs a strong administration, which must, however, be provided with frameworks that do not hinder individual initiatives but rather favour them. To be the strategist state that plans, it must be careful not to hinder those who contribute to the growth, jobs, attractiveness of the country for investors and, more broadly, to the power of France. Of course, the purpose of this text is not new. For decades, the legislator has been trying to simplify the lives of our fellow citizens. Let me quote one of our illustrious predecessors, Frédéric Bastiat: "Is it therefore so difficult to let men try, grope, choose, make mistakes, correct themselves, learn, concert, govern their properties and interests, act for themselves, at their perils and risks, under their own responsibility; and do we not see that this is what makes them men? Will we always start from this fatal hypothesis, that all the rulers are guardians and all the governed of the pupils? " Many bills have tried to reduce the constraints on our fellow citizens, such as the ESSOC Act, which created the right to error and simplified many approaches. With this bill, we are continuing the work of simplification, recognizing that much remains to be done. Some in this forum will say that this text is too complex, too broad, too far-reaching. I will tell them that we are not simplifying with two sections of law in principle. If it was enough to vote for an article saying "the administration must be simple" to solve all the problems of the French, I imagine that our predecessors would have already used the martingale. This law breaks with the declarations of principle to enter into the concrete and the experience of the French, which obliges us to put our hands in the camboo. It starts from the field experience to provide solutions to the French as soon as necessary, in their personal life or their work. Yes, simplifying, paragraph by paragraph, requires the consistency of the gardener who is growing to allow plant growth. It's a field job and a precision company. The important thing is not the number of articles in this law. The important thing is that our fellow citizens feel the effects of this in their everyday lives. Some, in this forum, will list the losers of simplification and warn that we are going too far in our desire to free the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u10	To release the energies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u11	I'll tell them that we're not here to protect annuities...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u12	No, of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u13	... and the need to bring discourses into line with actions. One cannot deplore the complexity of the French administration on a television set and fail to simplify the lives of the French when one enters the life of the subject. Kafkai and Ubuesque procedures cannot be denounced and, at the same time, nothing can be done to streamline them. We cannot go into incantations on the relocations and industrial sovereignty of France, with our hands on our hearts, or go against social plans on burning pallets and, at the same time, maintain blockages that prevent entrepreneurs from developing the industrial jobs needed for green growth in our country. This bill is time for the truth: will parliamentarians draw the consequences of widely shared observations on administrative complexity and agree to restore freedom to the French? I very much hope so because this text brings concrete solutions that are expected by the French. I will try to present them to you in three parts. Who didn't hear in the big national debate: "You have to look at the Theodule committees"? When a commission does not work or does not produce anything, we propose its deletion or consolidation. "Central Committee", "National Commission", "Consultative Commission": at the end of the quinquennium, 86 such bodies will be abolished, i.e. a reduction of 22%. It's new. Who didn't hear in his constituency's permanence: "Ma'am or M.P., I'm locked in an administrative maze, help me get out of it"? When an administrative approach to daily life loses valuable time or is not effective, we change it. So far, you had to provide proof of residence to obtain certain titles such as identity card, passport, permit or grey card; Now, a tele-procedure will automate the verification of your home. Registration for the practical examination of the permit was complex; You can register online by choosing your exam centre and the time slot that suits you. You had to provide a medical certificate of no contraindication to sports practice to obtain or renew your child's licence; Only a parental declaration will be required. You encountered many obstacles to changing the insurance of your bank loan; You will be able to change it more easily to benefit from the best offers. I also wanted to respond to the scandal of the squatting of the owners and tenants of principal or secondary residence, who are left outside, at the door of their own residence, by ill-intentioned persons who try to take advantage of the loopholes of the law. Article 30 ter will make it possible to simplify and speed up the administrative procedure of expulsion in the event of unlawful occupation of the home of others: we clarify the concept of domicile and extend it beyond the main residence. The prefect's action will be specified and new deadlines will speed up the emergency administrative procedure so that an owner or tenant can find his residence as soon as possible. Finally, who did not hear a businessman from his constituency say to him during a field visit: "I would like to invest and create jobs in our territory, but to create a factory, to expand my factory, is part of the combatant's journey, of the twelve works of Asterix"? When we see obstacles to relocations, extensions or the creation of industrial sites, we lift them. Contrary to all the false information I see as circulating you, we do so while preserving our environmental standards, of which we are proud, and which make France a leading country in the fight against global warming and the protection of biodiversity. Nothing in this bill will threaten our biodiversity. Nothing in this bill will allow the installation of a plant to the detriment of safety, to the detriment of a protected species, to the detriment of our heritage. Nothing. It's about making administrative procedures simpler and faster, while sanctifying our environmental requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm my availability and openness to the proposals that would allow us to go further. Honourable senators have done a remarkable job and we have retained many of their proposals. In the special committee, we also adopted 200 of the 600 amendments you were defending. I have no doubt that the review in this House will further enrich this bill. Some of you will want to learn from the crisis of the Covid-19 to improve the effectiveness of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u14	Not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and DEM groups]] Others will seize the opportunity of this bill to facilitate the revival of our country. You can always count on my support to simplify the daily lives of the French. For beyond partisan quarrels, we share a goal: that the work of this House really improves the everyday lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u16	Mr Bruno Duvergé, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u17	It is a requirement of the current majority to build an administration that is a partner of citizens, that is at their service and that does not discourage the initiative. Simplification of public action is, moreover, a long-standing demand expressed by our citizens, by the economic world and by politicians, starting with local elected representatives. Texts have been passed in this direction during the last legislatures – proof that the legislator is increasingly concerned with the writing of simple, unspeakable laws whose decrees are taken quickly and whose effects are felt faster in everyday life. It is an obligation for us who sit in the National Assembly to draft, vote and vote on applicable, efficient, non-duplicative texts that are understandable to our fellow citizens. The purpose of this bill is to adapt our society to its time, new constraints, new demands, and new opportunities. In this type of text, if you allow me to express it, we must hold the two ends of the chain. If, in fact, we need to simplify procedures for businesses – and the urgency is sorely felt today – this should not be done to the detriment of the necessary compliance with our legislation, which requires environmental protection. It is precisely this pitfall, that of simplification which would be in disregard of the rules and laws, that this text avoids. I must acknowledge the work of legislative co-construction that took place first in the Senate and then in the special commission that I have the honour of chairing. The Senate has approached this bill with the prism that is its own, in an effort to strengthen local elected representatives against certain unscrupulous companies and against central administrations and directives. Our committee devoted almost a week to examining the text, during which four ministers, Mrs Amélie de Montchalin, Mrs Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Mr Julien Denormandie and Mr Adrien Taquet, made themselves available to discuss with us all the articles, particularly those which proved to be the most thorny or even the most controversial. I thank the Government for its mobilization. I would also like to pay tribute to the members of our committee, who have come from all quarters of this House, who are present either continuously or intermittently to approve or disapprove of the main provisions of this text, driven by their convictions and supporting arguments. I obviously welcome our rapporteur, Guillaume Kasbarian, who has demonstrated, since the beginning of this Parliament, a commitment and unwavering energy to bring forward innovative proposals based on an unfailing state of affairs. In this regard, the use of Gantt diagrams to visually represent the timing of procedures to the completion of a project was particularly eloquent. I would also like to welcome and thank our colleagues Gabriel Serville and Lénaick Adam for the quality of their speeches and proposals, which have enabled everyone to move forward on the issue of administrative simplification in our overseas countries and territories. Whether this text allows for a better application of the Guyana agreements on the land issue or the fight against illegal gold mining is not the least of its progress. I think we have reached a balanced text. Since simplification is far from being a simple story, the bill has been enriched by some thirty articles in the Senate and some sixty in special committees. I hope that the debates in the public sitting will be of the same quality as in the committee, which implies respect for different, if not different, points of view. A text such as this has reason only if it is part of an ever-increasing desire to simplify public action and bring our citizens, all our citizens, closer to their administration. That is why I call once again on the Government and the Assembly to make possible a kind of annual meeting designed to continue to dust down, reduce and simplify public action. [[Applause on the benches of the DEM and LaREM groups]] This re-visit clause should also make us aware of the accessibility of our legislative production. If no one is supposed to ignore the law, who can understand it if we adopt texts, certainly irreproachable legally, but incomprehensible for who is not a doctor of law? In writing La Chartreuse de Parme, Stendhal said that he read two or three pages of the civil code every morning to find the right tone. Let's hope our lawyers read a few pages of Stendhal every morning to make our laws accessible and understandable to all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u18	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u19	"Simplifions, uberisons, let's destroy! This should be the motto of your economic policy, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. At the summer universities of the Mouvement des entreprises de France – MEDEF – the Prime Minister boasted: "Many simplification measures were adopted during the health crisis by prescription. It is also one of the virtues of the crisis. Well, I'm telling you today that these provisions will be extended, amplified and, if possible, perpetuated." The leaders of the big companies were exulting. Emmanuel Macron has not been left behind. At the third Choose France summit in Versailles, in front of two hundred foreign bosses, he explained: "A lot of devices have been put in place to simplify things and the couple, if I may say, labour ordinances and the PACTE law allowed to remove many thresholds, made it possible to simplify the structures in the company and at the same time to simplify. " The magic formula – simplification, simplification – was pronounced twenty-one times during this speech, as if to deliver a clear message: industrialists, lay off, pollute, we will not worry you. It is true that in terms of simplification, you have proved yourself. Is the labour code too complex for big bosses, too protective for employees? Simplify, let's uberize, let's destroy! These are the work orders, the removal of several criteria of penitibility, the PACTE law of 22 May 2019, still orders which, in the midst of a health crisis, destroy in a snap of fingers what had been patiently conquered: freedom of paid leave, reduction of working time – RTT –, working hours and weekly rest. Standards slow down or hinder polluting industrial projects? Simplify, let's uberize, let's destroy! You relax the rules on construction and you detract from the law of the environment. Is the tax burden too heavy? Simplify, let's uberize, let's destroy! You provide fraudsters with a right to error; you keep the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, which did not give us 1 million jobs, but cost us 1 million euros of public money per job created. Is there any market share outside the private sector? Simplify, let's uberize, let's destroy! After the scandalous privatisation of our motorways, you open the way to national roads. You destroy the SNCF, you give the Paris airports to your friends, not to mention La Française des jeux. You allow Veolia to take control of a common good essential to life: water. Yet, you are careful with the words used; There is no "privatization", "deregulation" or any other term that might suggest the principle that has inspired your government's action since its inception: the hatred of the public authorities. You prefer simplification, modernisation, flexibility, the adaptation of standards, the release of energy. Who would oppose it? If you were faithful to the truth, you would not have entitled your text "Bill to accelerate and simplify public action", but "Bill to accelerate the liquidation of public action". At the bottom, what's amazing, with you, is that you have a memory of goldfish. You always apply the same recipes; They always cause the same setbacks, but you do it again. You don't learn any lessons from the events we're going through. We could have believed that the health, social and ecological crisis that is shaking the whole world was going to calm your liberal ardour, but not! It was not enough to have you re-evaluate your software, even though it was a tremendous indicator of the market's inability to meet our basic needs, and therefore of the need for a strong state. Instead of questioning you, you're embezzling us. You pretend to have doubts, you promise an act II, then an act III of the quinquennium. You simulate bends, a green turn; You affect to change, you constantly pretend to want to reinvent yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u20	They're pretending, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u21	We are not fooled: the present tenant of the Elysée was never there to reinvent himself, but to destroy our common good, the State. The revenue does not vary: first, in the name of budgetary austerity, you reduce the staff of the State control services; Then you use red tape to push environmental standards; Finally, you remove the bodies that evaluate public action. No, you don't learn any lessons from the events. Let's be aware that we are discussing this text on the second day of the first anniversary of the fire at the Lubrizol factory in Rouen, a week after the nineteenth anniversary of the explosion of the AZF factory in Toulouse, a month and a half after the explosions at the port of Beirut. What has been changed to prevent such disasters from happening again? Nothing! In Rouen, residents still do not know what pollution they have suffered or are still suffering. There is no risk culture in France: one in three French people living next to a Seveso listed site ignores it. You will respond by reminding me of your announcement last week of an extensive plan in this area. Indeed, you have pulled out heavy artillery: 50% additional controls on industrial sites, 50 new inspector positions by... 2022. A more derisory prospect is that an inspector, on average, is responsible for 420 classified sites. This recruitment would increase the number of inspectors to 1650: it would take 9,000 to inspect all classified sites in France in five years. As for the 50% increase in checks, it will not even reduce their number to what it was in 2001, before the accident at the AZF plant. Without sufficient means, you stick to the big sentences and postures. Doing better with less does not exist. Yet this is the principle that inspires your action, a true negation of the principle of reality that you so willingly and so often invoke. Worse still, this bill denies all the public and environmental protection ambitions you wanted us to believe last week. It aims at deregulation, for the benefit of industrialists. Instead of strengthening it, you restrict the possibility for the population to learn about the nuisances arising from a project and to combat it. You continue to give transnational firms what health sociologist Annie Thébaud-Mony calls "killing permits", that is to say, to make the profits take precedence over the health of people and the protection of ecosystems. In psychology, this is called cognitive dissonance; In politics, we'll talk more about dishonest hypocrisy. How can you put up on television sets, pretend that there is a management of industrial risks, while at the same time making us adopt texts that deprive the State of the means to ensure the protection of our citizens and the environment? The National Company of Inquiry Commissioners itself says: Planing environmental procedures and public participation procedures does not save time or money. Despite your efforts, neoliberalism is a formidable producer of bureaucracy on all floors. The late David Graeber thus stated the "brain law of liberalism": "Any government initiative designed to reduce administrative burdens and promote market forces will have the ultimate effect of increasing the total number of regulations, the total volume of paperwork." The last "simplification shock" dates back to 2013: it was François Hollande who intended to administer it in the country. Did you assess the effects? Will you finally understand that the use of this term is of no use, because we have understood that simplification means fewer laws, fewer standards, but no longer protection or less bureaucracy? What you want to simplify is the lives of the big bosses. To the technocrats who propose such bills every five years, we would like to propose a shock of understanding, so that they realize the working conditions of those who, in the services of the State, carry out missions of general interest. The shock of understanding, for example, would be to measure that for any given social benefit, at least one in ten eligible persons does not assert their rights. In this full text, where Vitale cards mingle with advisory commissions, was there no place to try to address inequalities in access to rights? Our fellow citizens would be delighted if you said a word about the scandal recently revealed by Mediapart: in a totally illegal way, departmental councils consult the bank accounts of the RSA applicants, the income of active solidarity, to better deny it to them. But you are obviously more talkative on some subjects than on others. Colleagues, this bill not only unfolds the red carpet to the supporters of excessive industrialization, but it deprives the State of the means to fork towards an ecological and solidarity mode. Its general philosophy: to make the state so-called more efficient and closer to its citizens, by breaking down its services. By using empty words, at the service of these destruction projects, you are endangering democratic deliberation and popular sovereignty. In times of climate change and extinction, we must have the intelligence to define causes that bring us together, to recognize that water, air, soil, forests, health are common to us, instead of talking in a vacuum and destroying what we care about. We must build and defend a state capable of forecasting, expertise and control. We assume the idea that the ecological and climate emergency imposes a centrality of public authority. It is it, guided by popular sovereignty, that must engage the nation in vast projects of ecological transformation, back from your wild and disorderly industrialization. We could create 300,000 jobs in peasant and ecological agriculture, 1 million jobs in eco-renovation and eco-construction, hundreds of thousands in the renovation of water pipes or in the jobs of the link, and thus offer a much more serene horizon to this country. Reconnecting with time is what is required of us by the magnitude of ecological issues. But time must be the subject of collective re-appropriation. This collective property of long time is what we call planning. Not the one you use with your high commission on the plan, which gives itself the outside, but mainly serves to swallow up existing public institutions. Planning will allow us to collectively redefine our needs and give new goals to our production and consumption systems. The people determine the purposes; Planning is the method, it ensures the means to achieve them. You do the opposite reasoning: you lighten the procedures for setting up companies, without telling us what to produce, or how, and by limiting as much as possible the consultation on these projects. Unlike you, we are not afraid of popular decision. Planning needs to be provided with significant human and budgetary resources to enforce ambitious environmental and social standards. Norms without inspectors, engineers, agents of the state produce no effect: they are only pieces of printed paper. In fact, you will have to explain to me how you intend to take the ecological bifurcation while in the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition, again this year, by decision of the Prime Minister, posts will disappear. You can protest, Madam Deputy Minister, but it is the unions that say so! Re-appropriating long time means no longer yielding to the mortifying rhythm of liberal capitalism. The latter does not anticipate, plan or organize anything. On the other hand, he's rushing us to disaster. In this regard, the fate reserved by this text for the National Forestry Board – NFB – is significant. These are two contradictory logics that confront each other. The longevity of forest ecosystems is estimated in millennia: some trees live up to five hundred years. Your logic is that of short time; theirs, that of long time, that of the living who survives us. Forests are an essential resource for sequestering CO and combating climate change. They also move us when we walk there. Those who work there know better than all of us: that is why they are firmly opposed to your text. Your logic, yours, is accounting and short-term. The management of our public forests is envisaged only from the perspective of the posts of officials that could be abolished and the savings thus achievable on the backs of future generations. The NFB takes care of a common good essential to our survival in the face of an already perceptible climate disruption, but this dimension is simply not part of your reasoning. This bill, therefore, tells us that the Agency's main mission is to provide timber, which is why it does not need additional public servants, despite its missions in the areas of biodiversity, forest conservation, public reception or relationship with the people. As always, you are leading a policy without vision, without means, without even concerted action, on a crucial subject, which engages our future. The mere fact of having introduced such provisions into this text, in catini, as if they were mere formalities, says a lot about your awareness of the ecological urgency. All this is deplorable. Our fellow citizens want to decide what tomorrow will be done. They do not want, like the Rouennais a year ago, to wake up in the bustle, in the soot that covers the city, to wonder whether it is still possible to breastfeed their child safely, whether to move or barricade at home. They do not want a world where they should rely on the private, to whom we have courted and ceded everything. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] I will tell you what the problem is with this text: you do not like the state. You don't like civil servants. You do not like the idea that we devote a significant part of our wealth to public service, above all and above all. Simplifying, in your mouth, is destroying. Every step you take, you threaten the already precarious balance of our society. We are the guarantors of a collective and solidarity-based future for our country. Simplify, uberize, destroy: I hope that we can end your harmful project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u22	Magistral! This is simplification! Get some seed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u23	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u24	I will not answer everything that has been said; However, as Minister for Transformation and Public Service, I cannot allow this House to say that we would not like the State or the officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u25	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u26	First of all, we do not govern with love, but with a compass, following the direction that must lead us to an efficient public service and to renovated, modernized means for public officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u27	That is, with a stone in place of the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u28	As part of the recovery plan, we are investing EUR 200 million to modernise the working tools of these agents, which had never been done; 300 million to ensure that digital technology, which we have deployed within administrations, truly meets the needs of the French; we give ourselves the means to count 2000 houses France Services, all over our country, in 2022. We love the state. We love civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u29	You're removing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u30	Less 2.5% at the Ministry of Ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u31	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] But the question is not love, but whether our fellow citizens trust us and whether public officials are sure that they have the means to meet the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u32	With you, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, DEM and Agir ens. – Rires on the benches of the FI group]] This is the meaning of this simplification, because the first victims of the heavy work, the procedures that do not come together and the conflicting injunctions are public officials. To find me every week in the field, in a sub-prefecture, with the deconcentrated services of the state, I can tell you that public officials are motivated and want to serve, but they need help by simplifying their lives. That is what we are doing with this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u34	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u35	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I will not be able to repeat all the misconceptions and approximations put forward by Mrs Panot, and will confine myself to reminding myself that Beirut does not fall under the French environmental code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u36	Is that all you have to answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u37	As far as budgetary rigour is concerned, the stimulus plan that we are presenting seems to me to be a fairly direct and pragmatic response,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u38	It's bla-bla!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u39	... since this plan, with an amount of EUR 100 billion, is one of the most important in Europe and the world. I shall now come back to a few points. Firstly, contrary to what you say, the text does not call into question the fundamental norms of the environment, of urban planning or of preventive archaeology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u41	Derogations on all floors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u42	Secondly, the shameful hypocrisy that you refer to is rather the hypocrisy with which you make videos about the courts of industrial establishments whose factories are closed, while we fight for industrial employment, for wealth in the territories and for it to be better shared.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u43	Exactly! She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u44	Thirdly, we are not talking about inequalities in access to rights, but we are actually implementing provisions in this bill to address them – the popular savings booklets, which I mentioned, are a very concrete measure for the French, for the most modest of us. I would also like to highlight the measures planned to promote self-interest,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u45	That's the big deal. What about the wages?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u46	... which should not only benefit employees in large groups, but also those in TPEs and SMEs. It seems to me that this is a wage supplement on which the employees will not spit. As far as the water pipelines are concerned, I would remind you that the recovery plan intends to spend EUR 300 million on them. As for the businesses of the link, they will benefit from 6 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I regret to say that, far from being prepared in catini, as you say, the provisions laid down in the ASAP law for the extension and support of the installation of new sites have been discussed in a working group on industry, involving parliamentarians, trade union organisations and a representative of France nature environnement, and then working with France nature environnement. We've been working on it for over a year. Perhaps this had escaped your sagacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u47	Indigent answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u48	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u49	There are many hollow sentences in this text. The question is not just whether or not it will be necessary, in the future, to present proof of domicile for a particular approach, because these are points on which we all agree. What this is about is the problematic issues that you have included in this text as part of the discussion, sometimes in a definitive way, particularly with regard to the NFB and the privatization that accompanies it. How could we not link measures that run counter to the general interest? Indeed, this is not a simplification at all! I hope, and I say so that this is included in the record of our debates in the Official Journal, that the Constitutional Council will censor this text, which in itself is a legislative cavalier, as are all the small additions you have made to it along the water. We learn from a press article that you will allow the installation of biomass plants in Guyana – to make green, to do good! – in defiance of sustainable forest management. I could quote dozens of such examples. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You are talking about simplification in the administration, but as we are in the middle of the second wave of the covid-19 and, as Minister of Health in mind, we are told that telework should be practised, the agents of the state are the last to be able to do so. In all the prefectures, public officials galled to have a damn telework post and to be able to work from home without putting themselves in danger. This is the state of administration at the head of which you are and which you seem to love so much! Yet we have known for three months that we must prepare for this second wave. Where were you to "simplify the daily lives of agents" – as you say? Where were you, if not saying sometimes that you had to wear a mask, sometimes that you didn't have to, that you had to wear one, or that you had to wear two? What is this method of management? At the end of the day, you present us with a tote text. I'm sorry to point the finger at the subjects that divide and upset, and have nothing to do with simplification or the general interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u50	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u51	First of all, I would like to thank Mathilde Panot, who, far from having made a caricatural statement, has expressed a fundamental challenge, not only on the basis of the bill that we are considering today, but on several laws that you have debated and voted in this House and which, put to an end, weaken the state, reduce its capacity for action and entrust the market with the keys to responding to problems that are normally of general interest and public intervention. It is neither false nor caricatural to tell you that everything, since the beginning of the legislature, shows in a consistent way how much you do not like the state. It's not your philosophy: you want to weaken it for the benefit of the private sector, that you think prepared with all the virtues to meet the problems of our society. We could have imagined that after the crisis of the covid -19, you would change paradigm...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u52	Well, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u53	... and consider that a strong public intervention, a strong public service, with rules, laws enabling the public authorities to solve fundamental problems in this country, are much more important and more effective than the partial and short-term responses of the private sector, but that is not the case, as we have seen with the recovery plan, and now with this law which, whether you like it or not, is a law of weakening. To mention only the part of urban planning, which I may know best, I see from here – and the officials in our communities already tell us – that the sleep merchants will curl their moustaches, because your simplification will leave them free. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] In conclusion, we will, of course, vote on the motion to reject beforehand tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, but I would also like to remind you of this Lacordaire formula, which is often used, but which you refuse to hear: "Between the rich and the poor, between the master and the servant, it is freedom that oppresses and the law that frees. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u54	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u55	If it is a bill that can build consensus and lead us to work together, it is that one. Mrs Panot, in your long diatribe, you go astray and forget the essentials. Yet, like us, you hear every day the French and French say that they want a more accessible and clearer administration, with simpler and faster procedures. It is the ambition of this bill, which has the great merit of taking into account what our fellow citizens have told us in the great debate. They have repeated it to us often: the French administration is too complicated, the procedures are sometimes redundant, not to say annoying. This law is therefore a step forward, a major step forward. Even if some measures seem modest, they cover a wide field, they are pragmatic, they have their full utility and they will simplify the daily lives of the French. How, Ms. Panot, can you be against the waiver of proof of residence for obtaining certain titles, against the modernization of the registration in the driver's licence, against the facilitation of the practice of sport or access to the popular savings booklet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u56	You didn't listen to me, that's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u57	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ...and against enforcing property rights with the anti-squat device? Measures for businesses, which are also very much expected, will speed up industrial installations and increase employment. As we have to deploy an ambitious €100 billion recovery plan, it would be a shame if red tape and red tape were to discourage our entrepreneurs and hinder the recovery that we all expect. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So this is an excellent bill. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against the previous rejection motion put forward by the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u58	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u59	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Mathilde Panot, with his friendly and well-documented verb, has set up a indeed severe but convincing indictment. Although this text contains some interesting and worthy provisions, many criticisms made by Mathilde Panot are no less relevant. Therefore, in order to express our opposition to certain provisions of the bill and our general concern about the method used by the Government, as well as our opposition to its general policy, which is reflected in the liberal provisions contained in this text, the Socialist Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u60	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u61	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Panot, on behalf of the MODEM Group and related democrats, I cannot find myself in your argument. This text, which aims at simplifying standards, is indeed indispensable, because the French are bewildered by normative inflation. Quite the opposite of your position, my group proposes to carry out this simplification exercise every year, which concerns all sectors – businesses, agriculture and administrative bodies – and we are particularly committed to the grooming of public policy. Therefore, we will not vote on your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u62	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u63	While we would have preferred formal bills, this text is a focus of mini-reforms, but we are in favour of administrative simplifications and some of the measures it foresees are very much expected, such as the fight against squatters. It's a start, and things have to go further. In addition, the debates in the committee were well held. To reject this text therefore seems to me to be neither reasonable nor up to the stakes: we wish to debate and the IDU and independent group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u64	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u65	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Action Together Group will not support the concept of prior rejection. We believe that the text before us responds to a strong demand and expectation from our fellow citizens, businesses and local and regional authorities – in which I integrate elected officials and administration. We therefore very much hope that the debate will take place in the Chamber. Points of divergence may exist, but let's talk about it and be constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u66	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u67	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 8 Against 27
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u68	In the general debate, the first speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u69	After the exchange of general friendliness, let us enter a little more into the detail of the text. I will not, of course, be able to dissect all the articles, because it would take two or three hours, but I will stop by a few elements which are particularly close to the heart of the group La France insoumée and to myself. I will start with the issues of security and justice, which are the first we will encounter in the text. On these issues, the discussion that took place in committee was very interesting. My group and I are indeed in favour of maintaining commissions that, in your opinion, are useless – I am thinking in particular of the monitoring of pre-trial detention. The minister here told us that the Ministry of Justice is already following pre-trial detention, not to mention the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty, who would also take care of it. On the one hand, however, the ministry has little to do with it, since I have been asking for such follow-up for three years, in vain, – I am unable to give you any information on the subject – and on the other hand, this follow-up is not part of the task of the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty. As for the Observatoire de la récidive et de la désistance, he held his general assembly less than a year ago in the National Assembly: I spent the day there. This very interesting observatory does not cost the community 1 euro: it brings together professionals from the Ministry of Justice and researchers on a voluntary basis, reflecting the involvement of public officials and all those who are inhabited by the sense of public service and the general interest. I repeat: this observatory does not cost 1 euro and you suppress it by arguing that it would be of no use, while in France little work is done on the withdrawal and prevention of recidivism. I would like to welcome the EESC's report – Economic, Social and Environmental Council – on preventing recidivism, which the executive has done nothing about. Security is your battle of the moment: you even announced that you would publish the figures of insecurity every month. How will you do this by abolishing the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice – INHESJ – and the National Observatory on Crime and Criminal Response – ONDRP? You will internalize everything within the Ministry of the Interior! This will allow you to deliver figures which, now yours, will no longer be scientifically validated figures, enabling a policy of general interest to be pursued. These simplifications, in fact, hide your desire not to give a glimpse of what will displease you and to simplify what seems to you boring, such as the resistance of the officials of the National Forestry Office who stand up to you, because they disagree with the mercantile management of the heritage represented by the state forests, not to mention your calamitous management of the private forest, which also responds to an issue of general interest, enshrined in the forest code. In good dogmatic liberals, who don't think, you know that contracts are better than anything else, and you carry out this credo – which you have written in the law of transformation of the public service – morning, noon and evening, without wondering what might have made our country strong during the pandemic that we had to deal with, if it is not the sense of the general interest and of the public service, driven by thousands of women and men. You're thinking that, if you don't make it easier, you might as well go French! This is why you are adding, along the way, measures to which Transparency International France and Anticor invite us to oppose – perhaps you have read their excellent articles: measures that reduce the standards of public procurement and create, for example, new difficulties of access to CADA – Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs – while access to administrative documents is already sufficiently complex. The rules of the code of the public order are not so harsh as you claim! Moreover, the reform that has affected this code is not so old. Why add another undefined public interest clause, if not in order not to comply with public procurement rules? This is a strange mode of simplification, which will always benefit the same people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As for video conferencing in the judicial framework, many of the elements of the text were already contained in orders that we have not ratified; they will be in small parts within the framework of this text. You have introduced in committee, the air of nothing, the videoconference for people in detention or in the process of being detained. For the person concerned, having physical access to the judge who will put him or her under nutshell is a fundamental right: however, a simplification of the procedure so quickly does not seem to you to cause any difficulty. That is why I wonder about your conception of fundamental freedoms and, more broadly, about your conception of the state: yes, I repeat, you do not like the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u70	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u71	In terms of administrative complexity, France's reputation is no longer to be done. Already, in 1991, the Council of State warned against "the proliferation of texts, the increasing instability of rules and the manifest deterioration of the legal norm".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u72	He's talking about prescriptions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u73	This warning has not been followed by, or has been, too little. The bodies to be consulted in decision-making procedures have increased, laws and administrative processes have increased. In the end, the public action and the administration have lost their readability. Far from being annoyed, this complexity weighs on the daily lives of French and French women and hinders economic development, particularly that of TPEs and SMEs. Several actions have been taken to transform public action. I am thinking first of all of the 770 measures of the "simplification shock" initiated under the previous quinquennium, which had made it possible to loosen the stranglehold of administrative constraints. Although it claimed to make simplification one of the major projects of the quinquennium, the current government has been less ambitious. The ESSOC Act has made it possible to simplify certain procedures. If the bill to accelerate and simplify public action, which we are looking at today, continues to do so, it is, in many respects, insufficient. First of all, the abolition or merger of a few advisory committees and the deconcentration of certain decisions cannot, as such, suffice to allow the shock of simplification which citizens and businesses call for. Second, this piece of legislation deals with a wide variety of topics without presenting any overall consistency. From this point on, it is easy to see a broom car gathering articles censored by the Constitutional Council or measures that have not found any other legislative vehicles. And what about the many amendments tabled by the Government creating additional articles: about 40 during the examination of the text in special committee, and another 20 for the public meeting? The subjects covered are diverse and some provisions are not trivial, but we know the maneuver: we save an impact assessment and we hope to turn these provisions into catini. As part of the discussion of the amendments, we will come back to Titles I and II. Instead, I would like to focus on measures to simplify business procedures. The text proposes some interesting provisions to support economic life. This is the case with the extension of the status of a company with high electricity consumption to sites on the same industrial platform. This will promote industrial reboot by allowing companies in the same platform to benefit from attractive tariffs. The bill also includes measures calling on economic actors to be more responsible for environmental damage. Thus, the possibility given to prefects to set a binding deadline for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of sites that have hosted ICPEs – classified installations for the protection of the environment – is in line with the correct logic of the polluter pays. On the other hand, I have reservations about certain provisions aimed at lowering environmental standards. Under the guise of simplification, they should not be discreetly decoupled in order. Article 21, for example, which applies to projects in the process of authorisation or registration the same time-limits for adaptation as those which benefit existing ICPE facilities, does not seem justified. As for the article which allows the prefect to authorize, in some cases, the initiation of certain construction works in advance, before the decision on environmental authorization, it opens the door to irreversible damage to the environment. Finally, I am concerned about the possibility for the prefect to choose a method of consultation with the dematerialised public, for projects subject to an authorisation procedure. While many of our citizens are suffering from the digital divide, this provision could lead to the exclusion of a precarious and isolated public from the processes of citizen participation: that would be regrettable. Other simplification provisions attract my attention: we will have the opportunity to return to them in the course of the debates. I should like already to welcome the adaptations of the rules of public order, which seem to me to be a matter of wisdom, especially in times of crisis, particularly health. These few measures will simplify the lives of French women, businesses and communities on the margins. The elected representatives, on the other hand, will continue to face a proliferation of standards and a prolongation of procedures. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore regrets that this text misses its primary purpose: to really transform public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u74	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u75	We are about to discuss this afternoon's windmelt, medical certificate, water withdrawal, insurance, driver's license, the National Forestry Board and many other things. You promised us simplification in the service of the citizens, and now you are giving us a jewel of complexity, a thousand pages of seemingly anodistic measures, to make us swallow up all the reforms that would have deserved real debate. I am thinking of reforming not only the NFB, but also environmental assessments and public information and participation. It is also tasty, even though this majority does not hide its desire to limit the right of amendment of deputies, to note that the Government has tabled more than fifty amendments on its own bill. As the health situation deteriorates from day to day and gives rise to legitimate concerns, how can we not question the bounty of passing, almost in catimini, a new package of retrograde measures for the environment and democracy? But let us return to the heart of the subject: speeding up and simplifying public action. What a program! But what action are we talking about, and above all what simplification? Is it a matter of facilitating the access of the most vulnerable citizens to their rights, whereas – the figures have just been communicated to us – some 30% of the potential beneficiaries of the RSA do not receive it, because they have not taken the necessary steps with their family allowance fund, the CIF? Is it a question of putting an end to the cumbersome administrative procedures which keep the most fragile away from the aid to which they are entitled? Is it a question of helping small businesses that are struggling to benefit more quickly from accompanying measures, which are often taken over by large groups and multinationals, always on the lookout for all the schemes that exempt them from paying social security contributions and taxes, sometimes even to fraud – tax fraud that is coming under your nose, far too busy that you are tracking down the unfortunate one who has missed updating his situation at the CAF? The answer is no. That's exactly the opposite. The only thing this text accelerates is your deregulation and weakening of the state. Covid-19 has a good back! Less State, less public action, less control, less protection, less rights, less everything, and this in the midst of a health crisis. You will do well in passing a few savings: on the other hand, democracy and our public services will be weakened. What signal do you send to citizens by allowing the start of certain works before all permits are issued? What signal will you send to them, for example, when you allow permits to install offshore wind farms to be issued before the public consultation is complete? While, in the minds of so many of our fellow citizens, trust in the public word is begun and that in our damaged institutions, you are breaking the nail. In front of the cameras, President Macron gives the world lessons in democracy, but behind, in the shadow of the commissions, what do we do? People's right to be heard on projects that pose risks to their health and the environment is being recurred. You are even going so far as to benefit from an amendment by the Norman colleagues of your majority who, scorched by the terrible Lubrizol accident, are demanding more transparency, in order to strengthen the right to business secrecy: you had to think about it! Let us be clear, far from securing project promoters, the measures you propose will fuel tensions between the interests of industrialists and large companies, and the concerns of the population. Minister, Minister Delegate, Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left are not the enemies of legibility and simplification of procedures in the service of citizens and businesses. But acceleration cannot be used as a pretext for flight forward. Simplification cannot lead to the deletion of any rule. As for efficiency, it cannot be achieved through the mad deregulation and permanent dispersal of our public services. If that were the case, instead of the new world that you promise us, it is indeed the old one that would arise, the one where strength is not to the law, but to the arbitrariness. That is not how we can combine the economic life of the territories with our health and environmental objectives. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] As you know, the Members of my group are still standing as a force for proposals. We will defend some 60 amendments, in particular to combat all regressions in environmental law. Their fate will depend on our final position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u76	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u77	Today we begin the first reading, in session, of the bill to accelerate and simplify public action. Its objective is ambitious: to make the administration simpler and closer to the French, while modernising certain approaches. Everyone can only adhere to this goal, both the French mille-feuille, which is the product of a rule of law that has been built over the centuries by relying on a solid administration but also on careful regulation, appears to many of our fellow citizens, but also to our entrepreneurs, as a machine with immobilism and complexity. However, the draft text presented by the Government is largely missing its target. First, it proposes the abolition of several commissions and bodies deemed unnecessary. However, it seems to me that the executive has had a little bit of a hand, for example by treating in the same way the National Joint Consultative Commission on Rural Leases and the National Commission for the Evaluation of the Financing of the Burdens for the Dismantling of Basic Nuclear Facilities and for the Management of Spent Fuels and Radioactive Waste. Madam Minister, Madam Deputy Minister, how can we envisage the abolition of this commission, when your objective is the dismantling of fourteen reactors in the years to come? In its great wisdom, the Senate had amended the article that tended to delete it, but it was reinstated in its original version in committee. I am very surprised that both the financial forecasts of the costs of dismantling and waste management, and their sustainability, are a key element – if only to ensure nuclear safety. We will therefore propose an amendment to delete your proposal on this matter again. With regard to the abolition of committees, I must admit that I remain puzzled about the abolition, by an expeditious parliamentary amendment adopted with the approval of the Government, of the Higher Digital and Posts Commission, currently composed of deputies, senators and qualified personalities. As the Prime Minister repeats to the envisus that we must work for the territories, and in the midst of debate about the 5G, the majority suppresses, the sound of nothing and on the pretext of simplification, a parliamentary body of control! This is obviously unacceptable and we will propose the deletion of this article introduced by amendment. Similarly, you are planning several mergers of organizations. Article 15, in particular, merges five national social bargaining institutions into one, known as the National Commission for Collective Bargaining, Employment and Vocational Training. The work of the special committee has brought the High Council for Social Dialogue out of this merger operation – thank you, rapporteur! If we welcome this, we will also have to go back to the other mergers, which we will propose to you. Indeed, following the weakening of the labour code by successive relaxations and the lowering of regulations to sectoral or enterprise agreements, we consider it absolutely essential to maintain forums for consultation and negotiation. Social modernity must above all be a guarantee of improved social dialogue, and cannot only lead to a weakening of employees' rights, otherwise the balance between liberation and protection will disappear. On the other hand, some of the articles in the text, which prefigure a significant regression in environmental assessment, are of great concern to us. Thus, the provisions of the text considerably reduce the scope for impact assessments, procedures for classified facilities and information to the public prior to projects. In committee, we discussed at length the articles of Title III – Ms Pannier-Runacher was present at the time. I therefore repeat, Madam Minister-in-Charge, that in environmental law, when problems arise, it is often already too late! Field experience tells us that environmental damage is very difficult to recognize and estimate, those who are difficult to identify and the damage that is difficult to compensate. Pre-authorisation is therefore the only solution to prevent damage to the environment, which is often definitive. Madam Minister Delegate, rapporteur, yes, we want to relocate industrial activity to France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u79	But we do not want to see a 19th-century industry reborn, which would develop in disregard of social and environmental rights. In addition, given the vital issues affecting forests and agriculture, particularly with drought episodes, we are opposed to an orderly reform of the Chambers of Agriculture and the NFB. Of course, we are prepared to address this issue in the context of legislative proposals. For all these reasons, especially given the potential infringements of environmental law, we would like Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, to be on the bench to answer our questions. Some articles have been added to the special commission by amendments of the Government. I am thinking in particular of those aimed at easing the public procurement code, which tends to include in the law a principle derogating from the competition procedure on the grounds of the general interest or in exceptional circumstances. With regard to the fight against corruption, we do not want such easing. rapporteur, you told us during the debate in the special committee that this was not a "tech" bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u81	...that you had prepared it with the Government, at the end of your report and meetings with the companies, who told you what was wrong. Of course, but the general interest transcends the sum of the particular interests,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u82	I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u83	...and we are here to legislate in the general interest of the nation and the citizens, that through our mandates we represent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u84	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u85	After many months of work, we finally come here to consider the ASAP bill that meets the strong aspirations of our fellow citizens. It corresponds to a commitment of our President and a willingness, shared on all benches, to simplify the lives of the French by facilitating their relations with the administration in their private or professional approaches. After the ESSOC law, the law of transformation of the public service and the levying of tax at source, it is, in my view, a new stage in the transformation of public action, one cannot more crucial in view of the period we are going through. The bill pursues simplification objectives set out in several flagship provisions. Just as the law for confidence in political life, which we have adopted at the very beginning of our mandate, the text that we have to examine is very much awaited. As proof, the citizens we meet in our constituencies have not failed, since the great national debate, to talk about it and to submit their ideas to us. I am thinking in particular of the provisions of Title III relating to industrial installations: incorporating proposals made by Guillaume Kasbarian in his report submitted under the 2025 Productive Pact, they meet the expectations of project promoters, in particular with regard to simplification and shortening of procedures, and offer greater legal certainty. The employment and attractiveness of our country force us. I am also thinking of Article 36, the recovery of which has been very much demanded by early childhood actors. This is proof that the consultation carried out in the wake of the ESSOC law is bearing fruit. I am also thinking of the anti-squat provision introduced by the majority in Article 30b, which will allow the prefects to make the enjoyment of their housing more quickly to owners who are victims of squatters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u87	Obviously, less consensual measures are also included in the text – we have all heard about them. The intense debates that led us in a special commission on the question of recruitment at the NFB have shown the differences between those who consider that the status must be preserved at all costs, and the others – of whom I am – who believe that the missions of the agents of this organization can be carried out by contractors. Our discussions have highlighted our great concern about the French forest, which is beyond the scope of the ASAP law. On the other hand, article 33 deals well with the problem of recruitment. You know, as I do, that it is particularly complicated to bring officials into the territories, especially overseas: to be able to recruit and train local agents for our forests, whether in Verdun or Guyana, is therefore a step forward. I would also like to say a word about the criticisms that I have heard here and there about the very purpose of the bill, which some have allowed themselves to be described as a tote. Let me first point out that I see in it the symptom of a typically parliamentary schizophrenia: indeed, at the same time, many have given themselves at heart to amend in all senses, sometimes forgetting that we were even talking about simplification, and seeking to use this legislative vehicle to introduce here a new constraint, that is a new obligation. [[Smile]] More seriously, I would like it to be surprising to deal in the same bill with subjects as varied as industrial facilities, the online sale of medicines, the organization of the chambers of agriculture or even the universal national service. Believe me, sometimes I don't know where to give a head – unless it was the windsurfing debates that defrided me! However, let us not give in to the game of postures, pretending to forget that it is simplification that is referred to in the bill. Simplification is, by its very nature, a cross-cutting issue, and you must know, ladies and gentlemen, on all the benches, because we have been many, under this legislature, to invest in the so-called working groups of Rugy, in the work of the CEC – the committee for the evaluation and monitoring of public policies – or in the fact-finding mission on the implementation of laws. Moreover, this is not a new subject, since under the previous majority there was already a "simplementing shock". However, it is simplification that is referred to in the bill: in Title I alone, we are removing many inactive or duplicate bodies, commissions and observatories. In reality, I think we all share this desire to simplify, but it must be admitted that this is a complex task. First of all, because our nature as parliamentarians pushes us to create a standard and not to remove it. Then, let us recognize that there is a special love of the norm in our country, which even provokes astonishment in our neighbours! But I believe that this love is linked to what makes us great: in essence, a country where one is attached to the norm is a country where one is attached to rights. And it is this attachment that, in my view, makes the exercise that we are doing today so difficult. Simplifying is tantamount to an exercise of funambulism, as much as it is to seek the right balance between simplification on the one hand and standards that protect the environment, public debate or even data on the other. That is what we have kept in mind in carrying out this simplification work. In this case, there is no waiver of the bill, neither in terms of the environment, nor in terms of public debate, nor in terms of freedoms, because the provisions that are proposed are strictly regulated. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that we are about to examine this text with the only compass that must be ours: simplification. Like the chairman of the Special Committee, I wish, in my personal capacity, that Parliament regularly engages in this exercise, as it already does with the evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u88	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u89	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u90	The ASAP bill, which we are beginning to discuss today, is part of a long series of legislation aimed at the modernization and efficiency of the administration. Its initial objective is to bring the administration closer to the citizen, to simplify the procedures of individuals and to facilitate the development of enterprises by speeding up administrative procedures. Yes, you are right, there is a need for it, and the Republican Group, of course, fully supports these three objectives. Several measures are just and meaningful, and we welcome them. Indeed, the mission of the administration is to continuously adapt to the requirements of the general interest. Simplification has become a central issue in any public action, because progress is the simplification of complicated things. Nevertheless, we totally disapprove of the presence of certain measures which have little or no connection with the objective of simplifying public action, which de facto make the debate biased. As well, we were able to count on the work of Senators The Republicans in reviewing the text in the upper chamber, who hastened to delete these provisions. In fact, the Senate has taken an open and constructive approach, supporting all the provisions that it felt would improve relations between citizens and the administration, or simplify the standards and procedures that unnecessarily impede the initiatives of individuals or businesses. In addition, it has abolished or severely regulated several applications for authorization to legislate by order sought by the Government. The Senate has therefore usefully completed the original bill, adopting a more measured and framed text. At that time, we were perfectly prepared to vote for this new version of the text. It was regrettable that the special committee review in the National Assembly had been an opportunity for the Government and the majority to review the Senate widely: 207 amendments had been adopted, 41 of which had been tabled by the Government. The text has become a catalogue of extremely diverse proposals, sometimes with substantial implications for environmental and health policy, or for public procurement. Very questionable provisions had been adopted, some of which were even almost provocative. Among other things, many additional articles were produced without any impact assessment and unrelated to the original objective of the text; They give the prefects a greater power of derogation, in particular to decide on the establishment of an industrial site. In addition, simplification measures have been adopted to speed up the development of wind turbines. We can no longer agree to see wind machines installed on entire sections of territory, to the detriment of landscapes whose beauty is no longer to be demonstrated. While France committed itself in 2015 to a programme to develop wind energy production, expanding the wind farm from 8,000 to 20,000 wind machines by 2023, I ask the Government to review the wind energy generation path and adapt it, particularly in view of the possibilities of developing the floating wind farm. Once again, rural areas are the victims of anarchic and uncoordinated installations. Many people in my department of Orne, particularly in the country of Ouche, can no longer see three or four new wind turbines installed here or there. Exasperation is becoming important with regard to wind energy, and I invite the Government to measure the rising anger of the territories. At a time when the Government was willing to listen to local elected officials, the proposed text took even less account of the views of the Territories. In fact, in the name of simplification, you limit the powers of local elected officials by giving more power to the state. This is neither admissible nor desirable – and it is in fact totally contrary to the Prime Minister's words. In conclusion, the Republicans Group cannot give the Government a carte blanche, in particular to reduce the powers of local elected officials, and deeply regrets that the review of the ASAP bill takes this turn. We say yes to simplification measures, to bring administrations and users closer together, to deconcentrate decisions, but not to this reprehensible method of examination, despite the presence of several favourable provisions. The Republican Group will therefore vote against the text as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u91	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u92	Yes, simplification is necessary because it is expected, expected and suggested. Who among you did not hear or meet, while travelling in the ridings, business leaders explaining that they are being hampered, in their development, by administrative standards or procedures? Who did not hear these same business leaders claiming to be subject to repetitive checks during which they are often asked to produce the same documents, in order to pass the various stages of the procedure? Which of you did not also hear, in their constituency, the French talk about the difficulties they are encountering in obtaining certain administrative forms, and also sometimes wonder about the logic of the procedures they have to face? Finally, who did not hear local communities and elected officials describe the standards that are accumulating, resulting in an increase in their investment and operating costs? I could also mention the case of farmers. For all these reasons, simplification is absolutely necessary and the ASAP bill is welcome. Acceleration is the other important theme of this text. In this regard, a balance must be found. Indeed, if the acceleration is relevant, it must not take the opposite of its objectives. In a world and an era of immediacy, speed, urgency, acceleration must not be synonymous with precipitation: it could be counterproductive and not promote simplification, if it were poorly experienced by those who must respect standards. On the other hand, if it is synonymous with a reduction in delays, if it helps to reduce the slowness of the administration and if it helps to reduce the feeling of not being listened to or not receiving a response, then the acceleration is necessary: it will be synonymous with the reconstruction of trust. Before the debates begin, on behalf of the MODEM Group and related democrats, I would like to highlight two important points. Firstly, simplification is everyone's business, especially for ourselves. As one of our colleagues pointed out earlier, we sometimes have complications when we table amendments which, far from simplifying the texts, make them more complex. Secondly, digitisation is not necessarily synonymous with simplification, as demonstrated by two types of fractures that we see appearing in our territories. There are, on the one hand, territorial fractures: the absence of fibre or the presence of white areas, which make it difficult to access administrative procedures, lead to inequalities. There is also a social divide, marked by the difficulties in acquiring digital equipment, the lack of mastery of the digital tool or ill-electronism, which is not to be overlooked. This subject is also important. In this respect, generational fractures should not be forgotten: for some age groups, digitisation is not synonymous with simplification. Finally, I would like to point out that for me and for the group to which I belong, simplification is also a matter of method. So, unfortunately, everything will not be resolved by the ASAP bill, even if it is in the right direction; In particular, it supplements the circular of 26 July 2017, which provides that any new regulatory standard must be compensated by the deletion or simplification of two existing standards. As you said, Mr President of the Special Committee, it is essential that this text should not be limited to a single meeting during the parliamentary term, but that regular meetings should be set up on simplification, as in the spring of the evaluation - one could imagine a spring of simplification. What is essential is also our ability to listen and hear simplification needs on the ground. You know my commitment to public policy evaluation, which I believe to be our VAS, our post-vote service. In our constituencies, we need to listen, in order to understand the simplifications that are expected. [[Applause on the benches of the DEM group. – Mrs Sandrine Mörch also applauds]] Thanks to this method – regular simplification and listening to the ground – we will be able to rebuild confidence and formulate answers that will translate into the daily life of the French, at the service of the companies, the French themselves and the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u93	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u94	This bill seems to have no more simplification than the name, as it is full of measures unrelated, even indirect, to its object, from about fifty articles initially to almost 150 today. For example, we have seen the return of amendments, often by the majority, to various bills discussed earlier, ranging from attempts to reform the mining code to the undertaking of land reform – which my group has been asking for for for a long time. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has become unintelligible and has more horsemen than a regiment of the Republican Guard. We hope that the Constitutional Council will be called upon to carry out control that has become more than necessary. We regret that the Government is participating in this frenzy, as if all ministries were trying to empty their drawers. Between the special commission and the public meeting, the Government itself tabled no less than forty-two amendments to the additional article, for an initial bill with fifty articles! The Government cannot thus and to such extent circumvent its obligations under article 39 of our Constitution with regard to the advice of the Council of State and the carrying out of impact assessments, especially since most of the measures proposed are of no urgency and some will undoubtedly have important consequences. But beyond all these elements of form, it is above all the substance of certain amendments that we must worry about. We therefore have no evidence to assess the consequences of Articles 44c andd, which provide for numerous derogations in the field of public procurement and for a new permanent mechanism relating to exceptional circumstances. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] We are also concerned about the cumulative effect of the environmental and urban provisions in the bill. The possibility for prefects to allow, under certain conditions, the commencement of some work before the completion of environmental assessments is a matter of concern. You agree that such work would be carried out at the expense and risk of the project promoters, and that these obviously do not prejudge operating authorisations. However, you forget that what is likely to cause irreversible damage to the environment can be as simple as a new road built to reach a site. In addition, these environmental impact assessments will be increasingly difficult to carry out, while section 23 makes it possible to save water from environmental studies, setting out the principle of an environmental assessment operation-by-operation. Apart from the fact that this article is contrary to European Union law, everyone understands that the environmental impact of a project or site can only be truly measured by integrating all the effects and externalities. Simplifying to the point of making everything possible or irreversible is simply incredibly dangerous. We could count on our fellow citizens to act as whistleblowers on these issues, but you have also decided to restrict their participation by simplifying public consultation procedures in several areas, or by limiting them to mere digital consultation possibilities. On the subject of wind at sea, which has been mentioned earlier, you have indicated that the Government could launch the tendering procedure before the appropriateness of the project has been discussed in the context of these consultations. In this way, citizens will consider that everything is being done and will turn away from a procedure that will no longer serve any purpose. We will defend several amendments to delete these articles, which, under the guise of simplification, lead to an environmental and democratic setback that we cannot endorse. But our group will also propose amendments to make life easier for the French. This is the case, for example, with the amendment to clarify the expulsion mechanism, adopted in a special committee, which aims to protect the rights of owners while ensuring that this tool is not diverted to the detriment of the most vulnerable people – those, for example, who could be accommodated by sleep merchants. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Madam Minister, the rapporteur, you will have understood that, as it stands, the Socialist and related groups cannot approve all the provisions of this bill. If it contains simplifications of common sense that do not call for remarks on our part, too many measures lead to a democratic or environmental regression, and many others, taking advantage of this text and abusing the health context, undertake major reforms without prior assessment. The debate in the Chamber and the fate of many amendments, including ours, will decide on our final vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u95	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u96	The simplification of public action, which has been the mainstay of French policy, is the eternal promise of any government since Georges Pompidou, a promise which he summed up in 1966 in a famous quote. The ASAP text, which we are looking at today, is fully in line with this reformist and highly commendable vision. However, it seems that this bill falls into the usual way of accumulating very heterogeneous micro-reforms: one can regret its tacky nature - everything that, from the abolition of administrative commissions to the sale of medicines online, leaves no room for global coherence. If this argument was already valid with regard to the Senate text, it is all the more so today in view of the measures added by the special commission. Even though our group is still in favour of administrative simplifications in line with the expectations of the French and the communities, we can only regret both the absence of a rigorous method and the omission of subjects such as the digitisation of administrative procedures, which often complicates the lives of our fellow citizens rather than simplifying it: while too many geographical areas remain underserved by Internet networks, we are already being told about 5G! The IDU and independent group, however, would like to welcome the large number of measures which could simplify the lives of companies, particularly in their relations with the administration. In times of crisis, all support for the economic world is to be encouraged; That's what we'll do. Since it is impossible in five minutes to sweep the entire text, I would like to draw attention to some interesting points and those on which we have some reservations. For a long time, we have called for the abolition of administrative commissions. However, we recommend caution in the method, since this deletion should not lead to the concealment of important subjects or the treatment of which requires independent commissions. Thus, we are opposed to the deletion of INHESJ, endorsed by the new Article 5 bis. This renowned body provides independent expertise and training of excellence to institutional actors such as civil society, both French and foreign. It is therefore very useful and the concern for structural savings put forward by the rapporteur in the Special Committee to delete it is not justified. In addition, if the missions it carries out were to be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior would find itself both judge and part of its own action, far from the neutrality of the Institute. As far as businesses are concerned, we are in favour of any simplification measures, but we hope that this text will not be another failure, making life even more difficult for them. We remain very vigilant on the issue of lost resale threshold, the NFB, wind energy and the online sale of drugs. We therefore believe that it is the responsibility of the local elected representatives to judge whether new wind turbines should be installed in the territory of their communes and that in this context it is necessary to strengthen their power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u98	The organization of the NFB is so complex and important that it would require a bill on its own. This problem cannot be solved in a pencil stroke within an overly general law. As far as squatters are concerned, we want to go even further than the proposed measure, particularly as regards the duration of the finding of flagrante delicto. We will therefore support all the amendments which will lead to greater protection of owners and private property. With regard to wage savings, we would like the effects of the CAPTE law in this area to be assessed in the near future. Finally, we regret that this text does not contain any more measures that actually simplify relations between the administration and our citizens. We believe that a cultural change is needed, which allows us to move from a control administration to an accompanying administration. Colleagues, this bill is a kind of symptom of the administrative complexity in which our country is sometimes stuck. Instead of looking at measurements whose accumulation gives the impression of scattering more than deep and thoughtful action, it would be better to undertake in-depth reforms in each area and in consultation with the actors. Let it serve as a lesson: we, legislators, in our greed to legislate and often driven by a productive will, are sometimes ourselves responsible for the complexification of the lives of our fellow citizens, and this is fuelling the roaring anti-parliamentarianism of recent years. The review of this project must therefore alert us and encourage us to legislate carefully and simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u99	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u100	The text we are looking at today comes into play in an economic and social context weakened by the health crisis. The latter has shown more than ever that our administration must be simpler, more readable and more accessible to its users and our businesses. It also revealed that our administration could be closer to our fellow citizens and that it was able to respond to emergencies by reinventing itself in the service of the French. It is important to continue this process. As a follow-up to last year's major national debate, the ASAP bill responds more than ever to an ever-increasing demand from our fellow citizens for simplification. ASAP is part of the continuity of the ESSOC law that will introduce the right to error in the administration – an important first step. We therefore support this new act of transformation of public action. There is no doubt that this text will contribute to the revival of our country, for the benefit of our citizens, our businesses and local and regional authorities. I am thinking in particular of the easing of public procurement and the simplified measures for construction and nursery places, which are very much expected of our citizens. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes these logical advances and we stand by you to go even further in this process. In this regard, I welcome the work of the special commission, which has further enriched a text that has already been strengthened by the work of the Senate. Many articles appear to be essential in order to better adapt the administration to the needs of the French. It is important that it be addressed to all our fellow citizens in all territories, as closely as possible to the expectations of everyone. To this end, you propose to deconcentrate many administrative procedures and decisions on more appropriate territorial scales, for example in the field of the environment or culture. The proposals of the rapporteur Kasbarian, whose quality I welcome, are in line with a "renovated girondism" as announced by the President of the Republic. We enthusiastically support these measures, which will enable decision-making to take place as close as possible to the territories. My colleagues at Agir together and I also support the plan to reduce the administrative burden and to clean up procedures that are too cumbersome and often unnecessary. We will of course have the opportunity to return to this common will during our discussions. It is becoming urgent to raise the normative barriers faced by individuals and economic actors in our country, especially in the current economic context. These administrative irritants slow down decisions and complicate the actions of our fellow citizens. By reducing these barriers to the daily lives of users, linked to heavy procedures, we will bring about a profound change of culture in our country. In order to achieve this, it is essential to establish precise objectives for reducing the normative burden, first from a regulatory but also from a legislative point of view, and to publish the results, together with a steering table to reduce this burden. The United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands cost the administrative costs of the standards created or deleted: we will propose you to use their method. The return of French confidence in their administration requires the simplification and readability of its decision-making. Finally, administrative simplification is a real expectation of companies and an essential increase in competitiveness for our country. You can count on our voices to continue to do so. We also support arrangements to remove over-transpositions of European directives into French law. Simplification requires the fight against internal standards that are more stringent than what European directives require. [[Mrs Sandrine Mörch and the rapporteur applaud]] This legislative step, which comes after the announcement of the recovery plan by the Government, is necessary for the success of the economic recovery of our country. You will therefore understand that the Group of the European People's Party will support this text, which is in line with the proposals we have put forward to the Prime Minister as part of the recovery plan. We will also remain attentive to all matters relating to town planning authorisations and the environment, for which the opinion of the elected representatives, including the mayor, must be required.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u101	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u102	Simplification of public action can only be desired by the users as well as by the agents of the administrations, as our country is known for its plethoric and taunting administration. If this text undoubtedly proposes improvements in the functioning of our public services, we must ensure that this is not to the detriment of the citizens who are, let us recall, those whom elected officials and public services must serve. However, some elements of this bill still deserve serious discussion, and I hope amended, if we are to put the service back at the heart of the matter and prevent misguided simplification from opening the door to opacity or, worse, to the risk of corruption. If one takes the example of the public order, which this text wants to reform, one can legitimately wonder whether all the proposed measures are beneficial. For example, mechanisms for contracting without advertising may de facto exclude PEAs and SMEs that do not have the means to obtain the information needed to apply. Similarly, the introduction of the criterion of the general interest in the public order mechanism opens a door to opacity, since public order must by definition serve the general interest. Without going into details that you know, there is a risk that the reform will lead to less competition, fewer calls for tender and ever more possibility of implicitly renewing contracts, including very sensitive concession contracts. Let us now turn to the subject of wind turbines, this supposedly ecological aberration that the French do not want! I do not hide from you that I am concerned: what place will this text leave to the legitimate concerns of the inhabitants? Why, in fact, remove the prior opinion of the departmental advisory commission, which is responsible for plans to install wind turbines? Why also restrict the obligation of public inquiry? I insist: the French are mostly opposed to the establishment of new wind turbines, which do not present the virtues lent abusively to this source of energy, which cause multiple damage to the detriment of wildlife, raise serious questions about public health, generate massive concreteisation of the soil and damage our landscapes. Wind turbines disfigure our built and natural heritage, and should we now dispense with the advice of the residents to build it? I doubt that this kind of simplification is acceptable. Among the other risks I see are finally those of NFB reform. To bring the Agency into line with the economic environment, the executive wanted to change its governance, at the risk of blowing up guarantees of sustainable forest management, and to make more room for private law officers. Fortunately, he gave up the first project, but maintained the second. The recruitment of private law officers may weaken the level of protection of forest massifs, with the status of public servant being undoubtedly the most appropriate to ensure that the NFB has police powers and enforces the law. Finally, I would like to highlight the most emblematic progress of this text, both the rules that it seeks to amend are absurd: that relating to respect for property rights. Get out of the squatters' bowl! Recall that the right to property is a constitutional principle, "natural and imprescriptible" according to article 2 of the Declaration of Human Rights, in the same way as the principle of freedom. The squats that have been regularly on the news for years clearly show that the existing texts are insufficient. I repeat, our role as elected representatives is to protect citizens, in their rights and in their property. Mr rapporteur, you have introduced significant improvements in this text to enable the law to be implemented quickly: we must now go further. We need the squatters to be really and - I insist on this point - quickly punished. Ladies and gentlemen, this text, despite its shortcomings, will bring certain benefits to the French. However, we should start by applying this principle of simplification to ourselves by avoiding legislative inflation as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u103	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u104	Let me go back to the philosophy of the text and answer the questions you raised. We fully assume this: the Government is adapting to the situation, a health emergency in which the French demand much more – and we will give them much more. Many provisions of the text are simply intended to serve the French, employment and economic recovery. We must be proud of it collectively, and we must be proud to fight for employment. You fear, Mr. Little, that only large companies will benefit from the accompanying measures. It should be noted that 1.7 million companies were reached, of which only thirty-five were large groups. So be reassured: TPEs and SMEs are the first to be supported by the Government. Wind farms will not be authorized until the end of the public consultation. Since these parks are classified facilities for environmental protection – ICPE – the public consultation will have to be completed before authorization is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u105	Even at sea?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u106	As for the mention of business secrecy, it is simply a reference to existing law. It is not a question of changing business secrecy, nor of giving it greater importance than at present. Mr Lambert, you are worried about a possible sausage – we have had this debate in a special committee. I confirm that the text is in full conformity with European law; the Council of State has ascertained this. The impact of each project will be appreciated for the entire area. However, we secure the system for companies that are already installed. Thus, a new porter will have to bear the consequences of his new project for the whole area. With regard to wind at sea, no decision will be taken until the end of the public debate. Although an administrative phase for the preparation of tenders is planned, it will only be launched once the decision to install wind turbines at sea has been validated. Finally, the text will not allow sleep merchants to unduly use a right against their victims, since the scheme does not concern persons bound by a lease or a contractual link.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u107	There's no lease in the sleep shop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u108	Certainly, but there is a contractual relationship, since people exchange money for a service. The text does not deal with situations of this nature, but concerns the violation of private property by cunning or breaking into. All measures relating to public procurement will be taken through decrees in the Council of State. Respect for the general interest will therefore be validated. I understand your concerns about this, but it is simply a matter of aligning us with the main European countries, which have a much higher threshold for formal public procurement than France. Here we are only converging towards a European law – knowing that the fight against corruption is widely shared by Western democracies, you will agree. Ms.Thill, the CAPTE Enforcement Orders – promulgated in May 2019 – were issued in late 2019, while the covid-19 epidemic began in March 2020. So we have little hindrance. Nevertheless, we have adjusted the text to the conditions for the application of the interest agreements of the PACTE law, and to the difficulties that have arisen in certain specific cases. Thus we ensure a continuous improvement in the service of the French. I want to remove a misunderstanding, Mrs Pinel: work started in advance of authorization will only be allowed once it has been established that it does not involve a risk to the environment. They will be subject to a specific building permit and authorization. For their part, the environmental authorizations concern the operation, and have nothing to do with the work. There is therefore no risk that work will be initiated even though it is contrary to the environmental interests of an area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u109	What a smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u110	Ms Cariou, the Ministry of Ecological Transition was fully involved in the drafting of the text; He even co-wrote a part of it with us. The bill is therefore the result of interdepartmental work. We do not touch on the right of elected representatives to ICPE, Mrs Louwagie, whether they are wind turbines or, as the main motivation for the text, industrial installations. Once again, the bill aims to support employment, create jobs and combat poverty. Finally, Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere, you are right to say that the simplification exercise must be conducted on a regular basis. We assume that the bill is tufted and provided; It proves that we live up to our responsibilities and that we are doing everything we can to facilitate access to French law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u111	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u112	It is always regrettable that Members, although advocating simplification, do not vote when it comes, or do not attend debates when it is discussed. I am thinking in particular of our colleagues in the Republican Group, who did not attend the committee meetings that I attended and which do not seem to be present today. This is a pity, because simplification, if it is complicated in the eyes of some, requires specific work and detailed texts. I thank Mr Bolo, Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere and Mrs Lemoine for pointing out that the simplification effort should be carried out continuously. This exercise is the result of work initiated after the democratic crisis we experienced in 2018-2019. Nevertheless, there is continuity between the lawmaking industry, the development of amendments and standards, and the evaluation of user perceptions of law enforcement. I register falsely against your accusation of democratic regression, Mr Lambert. Our approach is exactly the opposite. As Mr Bolo has said, democratic confidence is eroded when we pass laws that are apparently beautiful, effective and well-intentioned, but whose application leads to complexity, the feeling of being out of date and, above all, the feeling that the State is organizing itself to ensure that rights are not accessible and that measures are not implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u113	So, we're removing the rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u114	The "service after voting" and the permanent evaluation, which correspond to your mission as MPs – in the course of the work relating to the implementation of the laws led by Jean-Noël Barrot and Laurent Saint-Martin under the presidency of Cécile Untermaier – must lead us to question, continuously, how we simplify the lives of users. Simplification is not just a matter of law – it is not enough to know whether the law reads well. It is a question of daily life: when users – businesses and citizens – make a move, do they feel that the state puts sticks in their wheels or that it accompanies them? In this respect, your comment on the administrative mental burden is interesting, Mrs Lemoine: we must think of the complexity of the standards as citizens live on a daily basis. The General Secretariat of the Government ensures a very precise follow-up of the standards that are being created and their costs; he is studying the possibilities of reducing the normative weight. It is in this spirit that I am conducting a qualitative digitisation of the 250 steps that the French regularly carry out. We need to look at the perception of users. Are they simple? Are they accessible, including to persons with disabilities? Are they accompanied?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u115	Do they work? That would be great!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u116	Exactly, Congressman! I invite you to support me, since every quarter I update the data of an online approach observatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u117	Another observatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u118	How about a green number?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u119	The findings of this observatory are public and review all dimensions: rate of approval of online approaches, level of satisfaction...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u120	And if it doesn't work, it'll be another million in the air!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u121	... accompaniment in case of difficulty, accessibility. This observatory is totally transparent, and no political; It simply identifies the views of citizens at the end of their work. I wish I could count not on your sarcasm, gentlemen, but on your support...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u122	It is the administration that would like to be able to count on your support!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u123	And on means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u124	...because by following the quality of the steps, we will be able to improve the daily life of the French. I note here a strong spirit of controversy, while we are talking about concrete subjects which concern the daily lives of the French. So I come to my conclusion. Some of you mentioned deregulation. However, the text does not touch on the core of the law, but on the procedures. There is a need to distinguish between the obligations imposed on everyone and the way in which they are implemented – something that Kasbarian has done very well in his mission. We do not touch the core of obligations; we continue to respect biodiversity and the environment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u125	You're making sure we can always get out of it! Derogation in derogation, you sit on biodiversity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... but we are committed to ensuring that a company manager who wishes to settle in France can do so. Unfortunately, sometimes everything seems to be organized so that this is not possible. Let us reconcile the spirit of the law with its application!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u127	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u128	I will respond to four specific points that you raised. Mr Little, the special committee has had a calm debate on the protection of victims of squats. Some would have liked the text to go further, others felt that it was going too far, but the system was adopted unanimously. We will have an opportunity to discuss this, but I would like to reassure you on several points. First, I will propose drafting to clarify the definition of occasional residence. Secondly, the procedure will only work in the event of a violation of the home by means of manoeuvres, threats, assault or coercion. In the case of sleep merchants, the occupants did not break a lock or cut a grill; the device will therefore not apply. In this respect, the special committee has reached a balanced solution. Wind turbines have been the subject of lengthy discussions in the special committee and are the subject of numerous amendments. However, the minister delegate recalled that the main target of the text is industry, i.e. the diverse and varied companies that will create tomorrow's hydrogen engines and chains, design elements necessary for renewable energies and prepare the mobilitys of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u129	[[Mr. Vincent Thiébaut applauds]] To my great regret, we have focused on wind turbines in our committee work, while the heart of the scheme aims to recreate in many sectors the industrial jobs we need for green growth. Let us keep in mind that this law is not a law for or against wind turbines, but a law that should allow for relocations and the creation of industrial jobs. It is important to remind him. The interventions of Mr Lambert and Mr Little lead me to go back to a third point: the contributions of the special committee. We can go back in detail, but we have discussed many proposals from Mr Serville, Mrs Untermaier or Mr Lambert, considering them very operationally and factually. I do not feel that this special committee has been dogmatic about simplification. I am sure that your proposals contain some interesting elements that will allow us to move forward on the subject; So rest assured of the benevolence with which we evaluate all your proposals. Mrs Cariou, you asked me personally about the general interest. With regard to Title III and companies, I fully assume that I have taken a field approach, based on the findings shared by more than 50 entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u130	A sum of special interest is not in the public interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u131	We cannot legislate without drawing on the experience of the field. That is exactly what we wanted to do: starting from the findings and then building operational and concrete proposals that meet real needs. Meeting these needs is not only a pleasure for business leaders...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u132	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u133	No, that's absolutely not it, Mr. Bernalicis! We need industrial jobs in our country. We cannot denounce deindustrialisation for decades and, at the same time, do not want industries at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u134	Stop the relocations, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u135	We cannot wish for relocations and, at the same time, do nothing to encourage them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u136	Mr rapporteur, we are not going to discuss all these debates now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u137	I agree, Mr. President. In conclusion, I assume, on this subject, that I have started from a field experience. That's how this bill was built.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u138	At the request of the rapporteur, we will briefly suspend our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u139	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u140	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u141	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u142	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor to support Amendment No. 476.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u143	This is a coordination amendment, which has all the legal consequences of the abolition of the Central Milk Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u145	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u146	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 42, 217, 577, 858 and 1091, to delete Article 2. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u147	This is an appeal amendment. The Socialist and Related Group notes, like the Government and the Senate, that the Commission for the Follow-up of Pre-trial Detention, the CSDP, does not meet the objectives assigned to it. The Government therefore proposes that the Statistics and Studies Branch of the Ministry of Justice should take over the tasks of the Commission. Having emphasized the lack of interest of the Chancery in the monitoring of pre-trial detention and identified the inadequacy of statistical tools as a major obstacle to its effectiveness, we would like to know precisely what measures the Government has taken to equip the Statistics and Studies Branch with the human resources and technical tools that will enable it to carry out these missions. In the special committee, the Government has not provided any clarification on this subject, which leads us to re-table our amendment, pending specific commitments under the 2021 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u148	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 217, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u149	It is the same as the previous one, but I will make a few additional arguments to defend it. Is it useful to recall here how problematic pre-trial detention is from the point of view of respect for human rights? In January 2020, France was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the indignity of conditions of detention in its prisons, including conditions of pre-trial detention. Given the seriousness of the problem, which stains the image of our country, how can we understand the decision to remove the only body that works to solve it in the context of an assessment mission? The CSDP may be experiencing difficulties in carrying out this mission, but they are linked, according to its members, to the weakness of the means at its disposal. Pre-trial detention is a considerable problem. I beg you, Madam Minister of Transformation and Public Service, do not seek to cure the disease by breaking the thermometer! On the contrary, give the CSDP the means to function and to help us solve the problem of pre-trial detention, which has led France to a condemnation of the European Court of Human Rights, which is far from being honourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u150	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 577.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u151	The Pre-trial Detention Monitoring Committee could play a very important role, provided that it is given the means to function! As has just been said, pre-trial detention is a major problem in France. In 2018, it accounted for about 30 per cent of incarcerated prisoners – and again, I spare you the figures for remand homes, which receive convicts with a sentence of not more than two years and those in pre-trial detention. The overcrowding in France, particularly in prisons, is due in particular to pre-trial detention. The Government bears a great responsibility for the dissemination of covid-19 in prisons, as it has refused to release persons into pre-trial detention. I recall that the Ordinance on the adaptation of rules of criminal procedure to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 provided for the early exit of prisons for all prisoners, except for persons in pre-trial detention. The Government had focused on pre-trial detention, but had little knowledge of it. I wonder who is expert on the subject on the benches of the commissions and the government... That will not prevent us from discussing it with you! You want to remove the CSDP, which you say is useless, but what guarantees us that the sub-directorate of the Ministry of Justice now responsible for the monitoring of pre-trial detention will serve something? It appears that the preliminary investigations must remain preliminary... If pre-trial detention could stay in custody, it would be even better! And if there could be fewer pre-trial detentions, what progress still has been made! The number of pre-trial detentions in our country continues to increase: should it be recalled that pre-trial detention concerns persons alleged to be innocent and that other tools could be used during the present period? Only the security crisis explains the overcrowding, which undermines the efficiency of prison time. Breaking the CSDP when it doesn't cost a cent, it's really being next to the plate! In the special committee, the Minister for Transformation and Public Service dared to say that this commission could be abolished because we still had in France a general controller of places of deprivation of liberty. Is she not aware that the monitoring of pre-trial detention is in no way part of the latter's missions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u152	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I conclude with this silly question, Mr President, to which I have been waiting for an answer from the Ministry of Justice for three years now: how many people are sentenced to a term of imprisonment equivalent to that which they have spent in pre-trial detention? It would be interesting to know! This would allow us to know the number of cases where justice could have been faster and where incarceration was too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u154	Brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u155	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 858.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u156	The impartial gaze of parliamentarians, assisted by the judges and the various actors of the judicial system, on the real conditions for the exercise of justice is precious for our Republic. The vigilance of elected officials justifies the faith of our fellow citizens in justice. That is why the presence of parliamentarians in the CSDP should be preserved and clause 2 of the bill should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u157	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 1091.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u158	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is not opposed in principle to the abolition of committees which would have lost their raison d'être. However, the Government must fulfil its commitments and, with regard to an ad hoc commission such as the CSDP, it must be given the means to achieve the original objective of making the statistical monitoring of pre-trial detention transparent and independent. Parliament must also have a real opportunity to influence this work. However, the presence of parliamentarians, as well as judges of the Court of Auditors, is not guaranteed in any way within the administrative entity of the Ministry of Justice which will succeed the CSDP. The Ministry of Justice too often struggles, for lack of resources, to produce statistics on pre-trial detention. Breaking down the CSDP, a tool for objectivising prison system statistics, does not seem to us wise. In addition, the March 2019 Justice Programming and Reform Act was intended to provide tools to limit the use of pre-trial detention and promote the priority development of house arrest with electronic surveillance – ARSE. The CSDP could have demonstrated its usefulness in this context by assessing the value of refocusing pre-trial detention on cases where it is most necessary and useful. The Government has also announced its intention to complete the 2019 programming law, proof that we will soon have the opportunity to refer to the CSDP again and finally decide on its fate. For the time being, we are calling for the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u159	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u160	My first point, of a general nature, will be valid for all the articles in Title I: to propose the abolition of a commission, an observatory or a committee does not in any way reflect a lack of interest in the subjects dealt with by these bodies. Thus, it is not because we propose to abolish the central commission for rural leases that we consider rural leases as a minor subject: we simply propose a new organization. We abolished the Central Milk Committee earlier, but we know the importance of the problem of milk for farmers. We will remove a departmental space management commission later, but we do not believe that departmental spaces are worthy of interest. In no case does the proposal to delete a forum indicate a lack of interest in a particular subject: it is motivated by the desire to simplify the organization. These deletion amendments to Article 2 are aimed at maintaining the CSDP, which is responsible for collecting data on pre-trial detention and analysing public policies in this area. It must be noted that the CSDP has not met for two and a half years. The term of office of its members expired in April 2018. The most recent report, which it published, referred to the many operational difficulties it had encountered, particularly in the area of statistical data collection. The consequences of this commission's inactivity must be drawn, since the tasks assigned to it will be taken up directly by the services of the Ministry of Justice and the work carried out by the Comptroller-General of places of deprivation of liberty since 2007 already makes it possible to deal with the issues raised by public policies relating to conditions of detention. For all these reasons, I invite you to withdraw these amendments; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u162	Alain David asked what specific means the Government intended to allocate to the monitoring of pre-trial detention. To solve the problem, it is necessary to speed up the processing of justice. This is precisely the priority objective set by the seal keeper in his road map. As you know, the Ministry of Justice benefits from an 8% increase in its budget in the 2021 Finance Bill. On the issue of pre-trial detention, therefore, mobilization is not so much through the maintenance of a commission as through efforts to speed up the processing of justice. If some people remain in detention for too long, it is because justice is too slow. As for the measures planned to allow it to be faster, the keeper of the seals will present them to you in detail in due course. Mr Bernalicis, I would like to point out that parliamentarians have a permanent right of access to prisons and detention centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u163	I was there this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u164	The Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty ensures, because it is his role, the conditions of detention and the manner in which detainees, especially those in pre-trial detention, are treated. As you recalled, the European Court of Human Rights has pointed out shortcomings in this area. Without prejudging the role of a particular actor, I would point out that the statistics on pre-trial detention are provided by the Ministry of Justice. The mission of the CSDP was to synthesize them and to formulate proposals. In the absence of any real work on his part for two and a half years, it is proposed to abolish this committee. In doing so, we do not in any way undermine the issue of pre-trial detention, on the contrary. In France, there are many bodies whose mission is to answer the questions for which the CSDP was responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u165	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u166	I'll be straight to be effective. The general controller of places of deprivation of liberty? There's no more! He's waiting to be named... The appointment of a new human rights defender was quick, but this is not the case for the new Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty! We knew that Adeline Hazan's term of office was going to end, but it's dragging... you're running out of candidates? Should we not be concerned that a new Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty has not yet been appointed? Is it not necessary to control what is happening in prisons? Fortunately, indeed, parliamentarians can do this! Again this morning, I was in Annœullin, where I met a detainee on remand for two years – I chose a cell at random. He organizes himself as he can... Because he is in pre-trial detention, he has no access, like convicts, to training and employment. He doesn't know when his pre-trial detention will end: what plan can he give himself? As for the other possible solutions for the present period, such as the ARSE, we do not have the means to do so. Even the pre-trial investigations which are supposed to be carried out by the insertion and probation services, the SPIPs, are not conducted by the insertion and probation advisers, but are entrusted to associations recruited by invitations to tender. That's where we are! The only commission that was responsible for monitoring pre-trial detention, you didn't give him the means! We can only question what will be done tomorrow at the Ministry of Justice. Know that, we are well informed of all that is not done! The Statistics and Studies Branch is not the best equipped. Moreover, the statistics of the prison administration are no longer provided every month, but every three months. Good example of what's going on today! You are right, Madam Minister: the subject of pre-trial detention has not been diminished by the Government; On the contrary, it was increased during the period of state of health emergency, during which persons in pre-trial detention were particularly ill-treated! They were treated as unfavourable during confinement. I understand that you are not comfortable with the subject, whether it is the removal of the CSDP or the future operation of the new entity responsible for monitoring pre-trial detention. From a theoretical point of view, it is very difficult for you to justify yourself, except to use phrases as hollow as: "It is not because I abolish the Pre-trial Detention Monitoring Committee that I am not interested in pre-trial detention. A little serious, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u167	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u168	You have called us in the rostrum to be pragmatic and to take into account the realities of the ground. You're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u169	CQFD!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u170	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 221, 487, 580 and 859, to delete Article 3. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 221, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u171	Once again, we are not opposed to the abolition of commissions when they are moot or when they have lost their interest because of the current situation, but this is not the case of the National Council for Victim Assistance, the CNAV, which Article 3 proposes to abolish. I have already had the opportunity to stress that victim assistance concerns both victims of criminal offences and victims of terrorism. The first government of the legislature, which took office in June 2017, did not have, unlike the previous one, a secretary of state for victim assistance. I asked the then Prime Minister about this; He then appointed an inter-ministerial delegate to assist victims in the custody of the seals, but the State Secretariat for Victim Assistance was definitely gone. As a result, in my constituency, many victims who seek redress, including victims of terrorism, including attacks at the Stade de France, are still at great risk of asserting their rights. It is not the removal of the National Council for Victim Assistance that will enable us to overcome these difficulties: on the contrary, we must restore to this council objectives – and perhaps means – on this major subject of victims' rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u172	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 487.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u173	The purpose of this amendment is to maintain the National Council for Victim Assistance. On 3 August 2018, as part of the adoption of the law to ensure the presence of parliamentarians in certain bodies outside the Parliament, the reactivation of the CNAV was rigorous. The Government is now going back, considering that CNAV's missions can be carried out directly by the Ministry of Justice. He also mentioned the interdepartmental delegate for victim assistance and the interdepartmental victim assistance committee, the last meeting of which dates back to March 2019. The inter-ministerial committee, although composed of members of the Government, cannot, however, replace the CNAV, which brings together representatives of associations, qualified personalities, the general director of the Fund for the Guarantee of Victims of Acts of Terrorism and Other Offences, as well as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u174	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 580.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u175	Demonstration has just been made that the Government cannot be trusted by word of mouth, since it had planned to maintain this body and to involve parliamentarians in it. You delete it while there are still topics on the table concerning victim assistance. In the case of domestic violence, domestic violence, how much assistance to victims is a major fact, and in the committee of inquiry I chaired on the independence of justice, we found that hot topics were still on the table, including for victims of collective drama, for example on judicial expertise, to find good, sufficiently independent experts. There are many other issues, and I invite you to look at the hearing we have conducted with the major national federations of victim support associations. These associations feel marginalized in the functioning of the Ministry of Justice. You may say that you are deleting the CNAV because there is an interdepartmental delegate, it is not only that these associations work: they are not mere satellites of the Chancery, they need democratic animation, to meet in an institutional framework, to meet parliamentarians, to meet qualified people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] While you are the first to remind the victims that it is necessary to take care of them, whether at the level of associations or during the criminal trial, where the victim is, in particular in case of immediate appearance, little present, to abolish this council appears to be an affront to the national representation, the country and the associations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u176	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 859.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u177	It seems to me that this council still exists and that Alexandra Louis is the representative of the National Assembly. Like my colleagues, I ask for the deletion of this article in order to maintain the CNAV.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u179	The issue of victims is an essential one and it is not because we remove the CNAV that we do not deal with the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u180	You are not going to give us that answer to every amendment! Find serious arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u181	I am arguing, Mr Prud'homme, and I give you the opinion of the committee. You'll vote as you please! The National Council for Victim Assistance, which is the case in most of the bodies we deal with under this heading, has been completely inactive for the last six years. His last report dates back to 2012: therefore, he did not produce a report under the previous legislature. Its abolition is all the more justified as the victim assistance policy has been reorganized since 2017 thanks to the creation of an inter-ministerial delegation for victim assistance, which works in conjunction with local victim support committees set up at the departmental level, close to the ground, to ensure effective territorial networking. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u183	The next general controller of places of deprivation of liberty will be appointed within the next 15 to 20 days, before 15 October. I think that is such a way of reassuring everyone about our commitment to continue this mission. Mrs Pinel, the first mission of the interdepartmental delegate for victim assistance, today Ms Calandra, is to animate the permanent exchange with the associations. I would also like to point out that the local victim support councils, the CLAVs, are held in each department under the Presidency of the Prefect, with all the actors on the ground, the associations, and coordinate support for these actors at the local level. I would also point out, as we present today the 2021 finance bill, that in programme 101, "Access to law and justice", Action 3 has 32 million euros, which corresponds to an increase of 11%, particularly for the funding of victim support associations. This is the sign that it is not because we delete an instance that we are not fully dedicated to this matter. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u184	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u185	The interdepartmental delegation has proven its effectiveness since 2014 – and fortunately, since the council has never met in the meantime. I insist on the departmental declination of this action, which establishes the trust between this delegate and the local specificities represented by the associations. We can only be against the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u186	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u187	It is not the victim support associations that decide to operate the CNAV, otherwise they would have done so for a long time. If bodies do not meet, it is because the political decision is not taken. You kill the tool, then you say it doesn't work and that we can do without it: we know the music! Should this issue not be discussed by associations with qualified personalities, parliamentarians, in order to avoid a bilateral relationship with the Ministry of Justice, their principal lessor, a relationship of dependence that prevents certain subjects from being put on the table? I know that because I interviewed them in our committee of inquiry and kept in touch with them. It's not enough to say, "It's funded. By the way, minister, I would like to have the annual "Justice" performance project for 2021, so that we can be equal in numbers. As it stands, we are once again obliged to believe you on word, which is a bit regrettable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This CNAV is a plus, not a minus. You delete it by saying it's no use when it could be used for something. We see that you don't make this subject a priority, a stake, a battle, a envy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u188	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 223 and 578. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 223, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u189	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u190	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 578.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u191	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The Recidivism and Disengagement Observatory is very interesting and the rapporteur's argument of inactivity at the CNAV is not relevant in his case; the last time he met, it was here in the National Assembly, Victor Hugo Hall, about a year ago, under the chairmanship of the Chair of the Law Commission. I didn't just stay during the introduction, but all day long; I have met a lot of people, from the prison administration, from the services of the Ministry of Justice, from magistrates, former magistrates, prison integration and probation counsellors, from associations, all the people who participate in the resistance, Anglo-Saxon neologism that reflects the process by which one emerges from delinquency. There is no more noble subject than the tools that help to get people out of delinquency. If you want to avoid delinquency, fight recidivism. You'll do two strikes with one stone: the person will be able to reintegrate and the crime figures will decrease, even if it would be a bit of a shame for Mr. Darmanin, who could no longer do the cuckoo on TV by saying that crime is on the rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u192	Watch your language! We're in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u193	This observatory costs nothing, it has come together, it produces analyses, and you want to delete it. Why do you want to suppress an organization that works, which has hosted a very interesting conference here, if not by dogmatism or because the Ministry of Justice lost all its arbitrations at the interministerial meeting, when Mrs Belloubet was already on the way out? Because what you do is not rational. As I said, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council has produced a report; The general controller of places of deprivation of liberty has also contributed a great deal to the reflection on these subjects. Thank you, Madam Minister, for appointing her replacement soon, because it will be three months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u195	This observatory was established in 2009 and produced only one report in December 2017. Its maintenance is not necessary, as its tasks can be carried out without difficulty by the statistical, study and evaluation services of the Ministry of Justice, in particular those of the prison administration and the direction of criminal affairs and pardons, in order to produce analyses that will improve the fight against recidivism, in accordance with the objectives of the Law of 23 March 2019 on Programming and Reform for the Justice. The latter also amended article 48 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Cassiopee database, which contains data on all criminal proceedings in the courts, so that nominative data can be used for statistical purposes by public statistical offices under the Ministry of Justice, which was not the case before. These developments justify the abolition of this observatory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u197	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u198	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u199	On the site of the dedicated laboratory of the CNRS, CESDIP – Centre for Sociological Research on Law and Criminal Institutions – we can read: "The Observatory for Recidivism and Disengagement organises a symposium entitled ''Deconstruct Recidivism, Exit from Delinquency'', on June 12, 2019, at the National Assembly. This exceptional day will take place from 9.30 a.m. to 5.15 p.m. in the Victor Hugo Hall. This symposium will provide an opportunity for the observatory to raise awareness among elected officials, justice professionals in all their diversity, students and journalists on the issues of recidivism and exit from crime through the dialogue of multiple actors in the socio-judicial world. » This day was exciting, I learned a lot. I asked a lot of questions about the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, especially regarding pre-trial detention, which were not answered, and the observatory said it was very interested in working on these leads... if the Ministry would like to provide the necessary elements. I would point out that the members of this observatory are all volunteers and that those present at the conference did not receive a euro. It doesn't cost anything in terms of public money, it's only at the most! Unfortunately, on that day I was the only parliamentarian to show that I was interested in the subject – it's always better than nothing. On the other hand, there were parliamentary attachés and journalists. In any case, this type of meeting creates a link and puts binder on an extremely important issue. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is obviously easier to claim to fight crime by putting in 1,000 additional police officers to make public safety everyday, under at least complicated conditions – if only we could get feedback, it would be beautiful! However, this useful observatory should be maintained to address substantive issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u200	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 129, 316, 898 corrected, 1092 and 579, to delete Article 5a. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u201	The aim of this amendment is to delete the article that challenges the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice – INHESJ – as a public institution. While the internal threat is, unfortunately, still present, we are invited to a form of passivity when much more means of prevention should be foreseen. The Socialist and related group would still like to have some explanations. How do you explain that Matignon decides to abolish the training of specialists in the field of internal threats? Isn't this decision incongruous and untimely? That is also the question of the defence community. The President of the Republic calls for a society of vigilance, and at the same time, the Prime Minister abolishes his first training instrument. I hope that you will be able to convince us by telling us what arrangements you intend to make in this area and by what means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u202	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u203	The subject is even more serious than the previous ones, because it is no longer a question of abolishing commissions, but of public institutions devoted to subjects that are at the heart of the concerns of the French and of current events. I really do not understand the reasons for the abolition of the National Institute of Higher Studies of Security and Justice and the National Observatory of Crime and Criminal Responses – ONDRP. The first, as my colleague pointed out at the moment, allows the police and security sector, on the one hand, and the justice and criminal response sector, on the other, to be divided up, by having their staff work together in joint training courses. Who today can deny that, in the face of the security problems facing our country, there is an interest in bringing these sectors together? This deletion is incomprehensible. The second is a statistical necessity, because to refer everything to the Ministry of the Interior, to give it control over the whole of crime statistics, it is not good for our country, which needs, on this extremely sensitive subject, bodies to objectify the figures. The ONDRP, which involves people from different disciplines, provides an objective measure of the evidence-based crime. Public speaking is not called into question as can be the case when the figures come only from a ministry itself judge and party, since it is both producer of the figures of crime and responsible for fighting it, which leaves some doubt about their veracity. To entrust the Ministry of the Interior with the tasks that were assigned to these two major public institutions is therefore not to give it a gift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u204	Mrs Agnès Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 898 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u205	Exactly in line with those of my colleagues, this amendment aims to preserve the INHESJ, the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice, as well as its national observatory on delinquency and criminal responses – ONDRP – institutions enshrined in article L. 123-1 of the Code of Internal Security, created by article 21 of Act No. 2018-699 of 3 August 2018. It should be noted that this institute is quite different from the Institute of Higher Studies of National Defence – IHEDN – with which it was sometimes confused during the interventions in committee. As INHESJ's 2018 Activity Report points out, these two organizations help inform public debate on security and justice issues, intervene to both improve the quality and richness of the information available, participate in the transmission of knowledge on the nature of criminal phenomena, and work to explain the uses of criminal statistics and provide the keys to understanding it. In the explanatory memorandum to its amendment No 689 adopted in committee, the rapporteur justified their deletion by stating that their tasks would be taken over by the departments of the Ministry of the Interior. All the added value of INHESJ and ONDRP lies in the fact that they do not depend on the Ministry of the Interior: it is precisely the guarantee of their independence and the quality of their work. In an article dated October 11, 2019, Le Figaro described this abolition project: "The State thus deprives itself of one of the few spaces of exchange, dialogue and confrontation of ideas between magistrates, police officers, gendarmes, professionals in the private security sector, while the need to develop the public-private continuum is regularly stressed. The article denounced, among other things, "a step backwards of almost fifteen years, at a time when the Ministry of the Interior was the only one to communicate and where it will become... This is all the more damaging in a time when public opinion – including public authorities – needs to be informed as precisely as possible about the state of crime and the evolution of threats, in a context of increased transparency." That is why this amendment proposes to maintain the two institutions: INHESJ, and therefore ONDRP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u206	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 1092.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u207	Members of the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group are also opposed to the abolition of INHESJ. Questions remain, in fact, about the loss of the particularly interesting inter-ministerial dimension in this institute. It will be recalled that the majority and the Government are always promoters of the security continuum, combining all actors, public and private, all types of police, judicial actors... However, the cross-cutting nature of INHESJ seems to us to remain a driving force for this type of orientation. Finally, this institute includes a scientific council guaranteeing the autonomy of its analyses, a advice recognized by all as a vector of the quality of its production and its publications. As it stands, the breakdown of its components among the departments concerned is not guaranteed, as we find nothing in the documents appended to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u208	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 579.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] And now, the abolition of the National Institute of Higher Studies of Security and Justice and the ONDRP that depends on it! I don't know how you do, in your world of simplifications, to make the difference between simplification and simplicity. But I can see where the simplicity is when we say that the figures of the Ministry of the Interior are the only ones that are valid and that reflect reality. No: The figures of the Ministry of the Interior show the activity of the Ministry, not the crime in the country. To find out about the latter, INHESJ and ONDRP, in connection with INSEE, have set up the CVS survey – "life and security" – a victimization survey consisting of interviewing people, which allows us to know the rate of complaints: this allows us to know, for example, that in cases of domestic violence, barely 15% of victims file complaints – which shows the march that remains to be climbed before women who are victims of gender-based or sexual violence defend their rights. You will never learn this in the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior! INHESJ and ONRDP provided this information, but not only: it was also a place of networks through the Institute's annual promotions and sessions involving parliamentarians, senior officials and the private sector. In principle, it's your thing when it comes to horizontality, to loosen up, to free up, to deliver to the nearest terrain... Then I don't understand! You even delete things that match your language elements! Otherwise by dogmatism, I don't see why you are doing this, except to destroy the only tool that allowed you to have a bit of hindrance on the numbers, for example to be able to assert with determination – or even with a certain morgue, as is my case tonight – that Gérald Darmanin tells anything when he talks about enagement! If we want to see what really is, coldly and lucidly, we must maintain this institute.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u210	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u211	We have had a long discussion on this subject in a special committee, and Mrs Thill did well to point out that there is often confusion with IHEDN when this has nothing to do with it. The abolition of INHESJ, adopted in a special committee, does not imply the disappearance of its tasks. This is justified for organizational reasons, which will lead to direct management by the ministries concerned. The creation of the Institute of Higher Studies of the Ministry of the Interior, IHEMI, on 3 September, will make it possible to sustain all the training activities led by INHESJ. In addition, the tasks of study and statistical analysis carried out within it by the National Observatoire de la Delinquency et des Résponses Penitentiaires are intended to be transferred to the central departments of the Ministry of the Interior, which will assume full and direct responsibility for these tasks. I therefore reiterate the unfavourable opinion given in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u213	In a reorganization, organizations may duplicate them. As the rapporteur has explained very well, IHEMI, created for this purpose a few weeks ago, will in particular resume the missions of training and pedagogical cooperation, in particular with the Ministry of Justice via the National School of the Judiciary to train civil servants, military personnel, practitioners of law and justice, as well as parliamentarians, in crisis management. It is important to recall that cooperation on training, risk assessment and security issues in our country will continue to be carried out in conjunction with the Ministry of Justice. As far as the statistical study is concerned, it will continue to be carried out by INSEE, Mr Bernalicis. The investigation you are referring to was not carried out by the organizations we are talking about, but by the INSEE, and then operated by the ONDRP. The finance bill for 2021 is of course not yet fully made public, but I can assure you that the Government has taken steps to ensure that the financing of this investigation, which is costly since it amounts to 2 million euros a year, is well taken over by the Ministry of the Interior as was the case when INHESJ assumed responsibility for it. Again, it is not because we are reorganizing ourselves that we are dropping out of the missions that have been assured so far. Any internal reorganisation, and there are them every day, is intended to carry out effectively the tasks it assigns, in particular in relation to the needs of the actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u214	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u215	I think it is important for the quality and serenity of our debates not to suggest that the Minister of the Interior would say anything, Mr Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u216	That's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u217	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... while, moreover, he is not here to answer you. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, it is important to reassure the actors: we have the right to reorganize in our country; in the interest of the service that we owe to our fellow citizens, we must not suggest that everything is immutable. We are here, and it is sometimes useful to take the opportunity to review the mechanisms implemented by our predecessors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u218	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u219	[[Smile]] We're on our way, that's right. It turns out that my own passage is quite long, since I am currently carrying out my seventh mandate. During a previous term of office a few years ago, I had the chance to be a listener of what was then the IHESI – the Institute of Higher Studies of Internal Security – which has since been transformed, but whose state of mind has been preserved. I do not think that there are many of us in this House in this case. If I am not the only one, I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the floor too to share your experience. I can at least assure myself that the year I spent at IHESI was a decoupling experience – if I can express myself in this way despite the little hair I have left. I want to stress how rich this period was in the mixing of ideas between the various stakeholders – representatives of the police, justice, administration, journalists, experts, etc. You say that INHESJ's missions will be renewed in a new organization, but it will not be the same: IHESI, when I was a listener, was a public institution which, I believe, depended on the Prime Minister. In any case, it was not led by the Ministry of the Interior. Its operation was much more open. That is what I believe was the wealth of formation – let us designate it as well – that we received there. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I therefore regret the disappearance of this institute in its present form. Why, I wonder, should I remove an organization that has been working for a long time - I attended the eleventh session of the Institute, which would begin its thirty-second session? Why, ladies and gentlemen, was it very helpful to remove an establishment that was functioning and which, I assure you – it is a pity that I am the only one who can testify this evening?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u220	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u221	Forgive me for being a little technical, but the newly created IHEMI also includes the CHEMI – Centre for Higher Studies of the Ministry of the Interior – which already existed in parallel with INHESJ. How do the two entities differ? One hosts a college of academics and outsiders who direct the work of the institute and define its orientations, objectives and investigations. The other is a department of the Ministry of the Interior and responds to its objectives, which I do not dispute. This worked very well: the Ministry of the Interior carried out with the CHEMI the projects that were favorable to it – it is necessary – while the INHESJ allowed to break the tubular functioning of the ministries, to unblock them and to work in a cross-sectional way – to take up a concept that is dear to you. We had the tool to do it, it was great! IHEDN and INHESJ are also linked – it is not because one only passes that one must ignore history: it is after the creation of IHEDN that Pierre Joxe, with his military training, felt that a structure similar to the Ministry of the Interior should be created. The ancestor of the INHESJ was thus positioned with the latter, before being transformed and attached to the Prime Minister, in order to bring all guarantees of independence. The National Observatoire on Crime and Criminal Response was then established. These structures are long-term. There is no need to decide, with one turn of the hand, to put them in the trash to create an agency favorable to the Ministry of the Interior, which will serve the objectives of the Minister of the Interior – we must name things, since that is what the balance sheet of the minister concerned will sum up. You're breaking a tool that worked well. That is a pity for our country, because, in terms of security, we need to rationalize the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u222	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u223	We need a return to reason, no chin blows or arrests – the Home Secretary's Twitter account is a festival of arrests and seizures of drugs less than ten grams: that's what will get us out of business! Fortunately, he is not counted on to solve the problems and the public prosecutors – such as the one in Lille – are devoting considerable resources to carrying out real judicial police investigations to dismantling the networks! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You cannot know this by listening to the Minister of the Interior, but by consulting the work of INHESJ; CESDIP academics, who is the only laboratory of the CNRS engaged on these topics; and all other academics who, in public faculties, work on security and justice issues and deserve much more attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u225	Mr. Gabriel Serville's amendment No. 225 to delete Article 6 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u226	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 130, 317, 581 and 1073, to delete Article 7. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u227	We call for the deletion of Article 7, which ends, in accordance with the text originally submitted to the Senate, at the National Observatory for the Safety and Accessibility of Educational Institutions. Since its establishment in 1995, the Observatory has played an important role, particularly with regard to asbestos-related issues, security protocols in the face of the risk of terrorist intrusion or accessibility to persons with disabilities. The Government justified its abolition by the establishment of a "school building" unit within the Ministry of Education. This choice does not appear to be relevant, since most of the buildings concerned belong to the local authorities – it was this fact that led to the establishment of the observatory. It also ignores the Observatory's scope of action, which also includes higher education institutions. Therefore, the Senate had very logically deleted clause 7. We believe not only that the observatory should be retained, but also that its role could be expanded to include the prevailing question of the energy performance of the school building.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u228	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u229	I will go very briefly in the same direction as my colleague. Note that the observatory informs the Ministry of National Education and provides substantial work. In particular, he has published numerous methodological notes and guides. I found in another life, as a local elected office responsible for the works, that the departmental councils and town halls relied heavily on the documents produced by the observatory before undertaking work or renovations in schools or colleges. Its members analyzed over 19,000 asbestos-related files. The work done was therefore very real. Paradoxically, the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust includes an article strengthening the prerogatives of the National Observatory for the Safety and Accessibility of Educational Institutions. How can we vote in July 2019 a law strengthening the prerogatives of an observatory and abolish it in September 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u230	I think we got caught, Stéphane!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u231	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 581.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u232	I try to dissect the arguments that are made in response to our amendments, because they are often the same. In this case, there is a lack of publications. However, the Observatory's latest annual report dates back to 2018: it is not yet too old, especially since the submission of the report for 2019 could be delayed by the epidemic of covid-19 and confinement. The work of the observatory has been useful: as Stéphane Peu just pointed out, elected representatives have relied on them to address these issues. Risk prevention is of great importance and even decisive importance, in schools as well as in the country as a whole. Progress in this area is based on a culture of feedback and information sharing, in a horizontal way and with different actors. For all these reasons, one wonders about the reasons why you want to abolish this observatory, especially since, as has been said, its missions have been strengthened in one of the laws that you have recently passed – but perhaps we have been abused, that happens. We have already voted earlier to abolish the National Council for Victim Assistance, even though you have assured, in the course of the examination of a previous text, that you will quickly assemble it. What is this text that we are looking at today? Is this the broom car of unfulfilled promises of the Government? Obviously, the observatory works. It is well presented on the website of the Ministry of National Education. I suggest we keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u233	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 1073.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u234	Like the Senate, we are surprised by the Government's renewed commitment to abolishing the national observatory on the safety and accessibility of educational institutions. This is justified by the creation of a "school building" unit. However, its scope of action will not be at all the same as that covered by the observatory: it will be much smaller. The "school building" unit cannot therefore assume the powers of the observatory. For example, it will not be able to rely on public works. In addition, the independence of the observatory allows it to take an external look at the policies applied. However, the Minister is well aware of this: evaluation or critical analysis is much more relevant when conducted in distance and backwards. Since the introduction of the bill, a health crisis has occurred. On this occasion, the observatory was able to show its usefulness: it was not the "school building" unit that pointed out that six out of seven schools did not have enough soap, or that one quarter of schools had too few sanitary facilities. The Court of Auditors last May pointed to the weakness of the management of school health. This is not the first time that I have conveyed to you this concern that I would like to see shared by all. Internalizing the competence of observation and analysis within the Ministry of National Education, which suffers from pilotage difficulties, will not make it possible to increase efficiency. There's an emergency, though. The abolition of the observatory therefore seems to us to be counterproductive or even dangerous, even though in the context of a health crisis, elected officials, national education staff and parents of pupils express their commitment to school health. I will not go back to the numerous publications – more than twenty a year – or to the 140 guides and vade-mecums that have been published for the national education staff, or to the more than 150 specialists who participate in the work of the observatory, but it would be a shame, because of lack of knowledge of its work, to give up relying on this structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u235	What is the Committee's opinion on the deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u236	The issue of maintaining the National Observatory for the Safety and Accessibility of Educational Institutions has been the subject of heated debate in the Special Commission. It is true that this observatory has carried out important work, independently and with real expertise, since its establishment in 1995. We recognised it in the special committee and we were able to see it during the speech by its President, Jean-Marie Schleret, whom we have heard at length. No one denies the work done or the reports submitted for years. I want to make this very clear, so that I don't get words that I wouldn't have said: everyone recognizes the work done. I also recall that the quality of this work was explicitly praised in the law for a school of trust adopted in 2019. The Ministry of National Education, however, wanted to internalize the steering of these subjects within its General Secretariat, creating a school building unit in the summer of 2019. It is this new organisation, which has been in force for a year now, that explains the desire to put an end to the tasks currently assigned to the observatory. The goal is for the Ministry to directly address accessibility and security issues in educational institutions, while improving interdepartmental coordination on these issues. In these circumstances, and in accordance with the work of the Special Committee, I express an opinion against the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u238	I will develop arguments comparable to those put forward by the rapporteur. The key is to act, together with the key players, elected representatives and community leaders, on the basis of the reports we already have, which provide a very clear picture of the needs – you mentioned the needs for accommodation, health needs, accessibility needs or security needs. A reorganization is necessary, not because the observatory would not have done its job well, but because we must, more than ever, be able to make a difference in national education. Let us not create false opposition. I do not dispute the usefulness of sending questionnaires to school principals, but then we have to make sure that the situation is changing, particularly in the context of the recovery plan and in the field of energy renewal. The observatory now duplicates the unit set up within the Ministry of National Education. Let us put ourselves in a logic of reorganization, not because we would minimize problems, but because we want to move from observation to action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u240	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u241	Madam Minister, there must be a lack of understanding: the transition from observation to action is precisely the objective of the observatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u242	No, he's not. He's watching.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u243	It makes observations, evaluations, in particular on the basis of questionnaires. These results are then passed on to the department, to whom it is then necessary to act. It is not contradictory, but quite complementary. Perhaps you propose to stop sending questionnaires to school heads – for if the problems are invisible, of course, it is no longer necessary to act: it is perfectly clear, that is an indisputable simplification! If this is not your objective, why do you want to abolish an observatory that carries out a complementary work to that carried out internally by the Ministry of National Education? You can perfectly strengthen the staff of this unit if you wish, but don't remove the observatory that works with the ministry: it doesn't make sense! It is clear that at the end of the day you no longer have arguments to justify such a measure. I note that the last report submitted by the observatory indicated the absence of a business continuity plan in 73% of schools. This is unfortunate, especially in times of crisis of the Covid-19, although, I agree, the situation was the same in the courts and many other public services, which is still problematic. Of course, the preparation of such reports, which is a matter of predictive risk management, represents a cost that may seem unnecessary since the planned fire or disaster will certainly not take place – and so much the better. But on the day they happen, you will be very happy to have spent all this money, year after year, to maintain a culture of responsible, rational risk – it is thanks to it that people do not go crazy when the disaster arrives. You're breaking this tool: it's absurd. I adjure the colleagues of the majority here to realize the need to maintain this observatory at least.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u244	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u245	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote against these deletion amendments. Nevertheless, I would like to share with you, Madam Minister, a question from the actors in the field: how will they be associated with the action taken by the cell within the ministry?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u246	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u247	Opposing observation to action is a bad trial. I mentioned earlier the 150 guides and vade-mecum published by the observatory, which have made it possible to renovate and build schools with care, taking into account the prevention of risks – for example that of asbestos. This tool has therefore proved to be very valuable, making it possible for coherent and effective action to be taken. On the other hand, no one has answered a question to which, it is true, only the Government can answer: how can we strengthen the powers of the observatory in July 2019 – in the law for a school of trust – and remove it a little more than a year later? This is a major contradiction between two laws that the same Government wants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u248	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u249	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u250	Minister, you're talking a lot about observation and action. With regard to universal accessibility in schools, which is a real challenge for people with disabilities, it seemed to me that the law required municipalities to submit a programmed accessibility agenda, with commitments over time on certain works. What prevents you from taking action in this area to achieve progress? Why don't you tell the prefects, since the files are handed over to the prefecture? Today, accessibility commissions are not very active – I don't even know if they are still sitting in the various bodies. The law to act exists: therefore, simply act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u251	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u252	I hear the will to be pragmatic, concrete. However, I would like to point out that the work of the Court of Auditors highlights the need for an external look. If we want an objective look, you will admit that it must come from outside and bring together skills in several areas, which is not the case with the school building unit. On the other hand, security and building problems also concern local authorities, since a number of problems are referred to the department, the region or the municipalities. The distance between the observatory and the Ministry of National Education seems relevant to me, as it avoids conflicts of interest that would arise if the ministry itself were to share some criticism with the local authorities, which are at the same time its partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u253	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u254	It is to be welcomed that the Ministry of National Education seeks to establish a continuous, constant, precise, reasoned dialogue with local elected officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u255	That's the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u256	... around the question of the school building, which had been entrusted to an observatory whose work I do not question, but which is outside the ministry. The challenge is that trade union organizations, local elected representatives, elected associations and school directors now engage in a strategic dialogue with the Ministry on the school structure. I recall that Jean-Michel Blanquer set up a very ambitious timetable for the renovation of the school building, first during the heat wave that our country experienced, then during the crisis of the covid-19 and now on the occasion of the recovery plan. The prefects will, of course, be questioned, as Mr Bricout suggested, which I thank, so that all the dossiers submitted to the prefecture will be followed up, or even mobilised, if things do not move forward. On the basis of the very precise data provided for years by the observatory, it appeared that the school structure was a strategic issue for the conduct of educational policy, and not a subject that could be delegated to other actors, regardless of the quality of their work, who did not have the political levers to go much further than the mere formulation of recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u257	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u258	Let me push the nail. I see, Madam Minister, that you have difficulty finding arguments. You are trying to assert that, despite the work done and under the right to reorganization, the mission entrusted to the observatory must return to a department of the ministry. This is pointless, since the Ministry is already responsible for providing support and logistics to local communities regarding school buildings. There is clearly a need to strengthen the powers of the unit responsible for this mission. You're going to do it, so much the better. But don't break a tool that – many colleagues have testified – plays a complementary role, all the more so as it is run for exercise. He rendered services more than useful during the period of covid-19 to highlight difficulties that the department had not perceived, which enabled them to be resolved while everyone, in this tense period, had many problems to deal with. The observatory has proved its effectiveness: it must be kept.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u259	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 1072.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u260	You want to remove the observatory because its skills would be identical to those of the school building unit – that's not true, I have already explained to you why. Instead, we propose to strengthen it by devoting it as the National Council for the Health, Safety and Accessibility of Schools. Its tasks will be expanded, particularly in the area of school health. Like the Academy of Medicine or many reports, the Court of Auditors considered last May that our school health policy was failing. Very severe, she literally strangled him by judging his performance "very mediocre." This should encourage the Ministry to establish a health board to report on the effectiveness of this public service. Article 7, as currently drafted, provides exactly the opposite. We can attest, in our respective constituencies, to requests from parents, teachers, mentors or elected officials who wish to strengthen health policy in schools and who feel concerned about this issue. Can we not take it with the body, for example by integrating the problem of pollution or that of the deplorable state of the toilets? It is a real public health problem – there is a world toilet day – and I invite you to visit some schools to see this unacceptable situation. [[Mr. Jérôme Lambert applauds]] By extending the observatory's competencies to the area of school health, a comprehensive assessment, conducted with the necessary distance and useful to the ministry, would be possible. This would lead to an acceleration of public action in the field of school health. This is what the signatories of this amendment ardently want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u262	I understand your argument and know your commitment on this issue, dear colleague. However, I am not sure that a lexical transformation of the observatory should be envisaged in anticipation of the creation of a future National School Health Council. The challenge is to know which organization is best able to deal with these issues effectively. We have two options: to maintain an independent observatory or to set up an internalised steering within the General Secretariat of the Ministry of National Education. The special committee, like the Chamber a few moments ago, chose the second. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u264	I would like to reply to Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe that school health is a battle conducted according to an inter-ministerial logic, which includes Jean-Michel Blanquer, Adrien Taquet and myself. We want to ensure the attractiveness of the professions of school medicine, such as nurses or doctors. As part of the Secur de la santé, we are working to find a way to ensure the recruitment of a large number of professionals. On the other hand, issues relating to school medicine, such as the prevention of risks – particularly psychosocial – or the care of children whose health status is degraded but undiagnosed, have been the subject of a substantial exchange this Friday in Seine-Saint-Denis with the Prime Minister, in the presence of your colleague Stéphane Peu. In Seine-Saint-Denis, but also elsewhere in France, we must ensure that we have at least as many doctors as open posts. We know that in your department, Mr. Little, that's not the case. I would like to tell you how much the Government is mobilized. Since the crisis of coronavirus has erupted, it is more urgent than ever to ensure that doctors are on the side of children, especially with regard to mental health. You have also focused on hygiene, an area in which we have progress to make. So I'm going to go in your direction, deputy. However, I am not sure that this project is truly honoured by the creation of a National Council on Health, Safety and Accessibility. Let's act instead, and I'll be really happy to work with you on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u265	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u266	We share the concern of the minister for critical analysis, monitoring and evaluation. However, the Ministry of National Education cannot self-control or self-assess: monitoring and evaluation imply a certain distance. That is what the Court of Auditors is asking for. Instead of increasing the number of instances, let us rely on those already existing and give them additional competence. I understand that you want to strengthen the attractiveness of the professions of school medicine. However, the question is not one of the possible undermining of the attractiveness of a particular profession of national education, but of health policy. One of the fundamental questions of public health is what is happening in national education. It is not only the public health doctor that I am who tells you, but the Academy of Medicine, the Court of Auditors, all the observers who examine what is happening in the institution that has the greatest difficulties in carrying out a coordinated policy and thus more effective. This is what this observatory could contribute to if its skills were to be expanded so that it would have a comprehensive approach to public health. I regret that this major issue for our young people is difficult to hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u267	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 923.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u268	The aim of this amendment is to delete Article 10 and therefore to maintain the National Scientific Commission for Collections – CSNC – which, in turn, does not cost anything and is of great cultural interest. The CSNC is in fact an advisory tool, in particular to judge the desirability of alienating art collections and in particular State property. It confers a certain collegiality on important decisions concerning heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u270	You wish to maintain the CSNC, dedicated to the decommissioning of cultural property. However, it has received very few requests over the past ten years. It completed the doctrinal work entrusted to it by the legislator with the preparation of a report submitted in 2015. This is the only report it has published since its creation. I would point out that the abolition of this commission has no effect on the integrity of public collections and their inalienability, since the CSCC only gives an opinion on proposals to decommission the public domain and has no competence to deal with cases of international restitution such as those envisaged for African heritage. I would point out that Parliament is debating and deciding, by passing a law, on the return of property to third countries. Therefore, the Minister of Culture's downgrading decision will continue to be based on an argumented and directly established report by the scientific staff in the services of heritage institutions. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u271	Identical amendments Nos 57 by Mr Philippe Naillet, 232 by Mr Gabriel Serville and 366 by Mrs Nadia Ramassamy, aimed at deleting the article, are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u272	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 582.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u273	We oppose the abolition of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Overseas State Policies, CNEPEOM, whose main task is to monitor the implementation of all the State's public policies overseas. I am speaking on behalf of Jean-Hugues Ratenon, who is unfortunately not present since we are on Monday – many of our ultramarine colleagues are in the same situation, which I regret. Indeed, the abolition of CNEPEOM would give an even worse signal since it occurred after the closure of the France Ô chain, the abolition of the overseas constituency for the European elections, the reduction in the number of ultramarine representatives in the French Biodiversity Office – while France is home to 10% of the world's biodiversity, and this biodiversity is mostly found overseas – and finally questions about the representation of the overseas countries in the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. You are sending this bad signal at a time when our overseas compatriots are in the most complicated situation as a result of the health crisis, because the infrastructure they benefit from is much less adapted, much less resilient. These fellow citizens therefore feel abandoned by the public authorities. And I'm not talking about the colossal stakes on water! In France, one in five litres of water is wasted due to the lack of sufficient public investment to renovate the pipelines. This proportion is much larger overseas, particularly in Guadeloupe, where 45 schools have been closed because of the lack of drinking water and because in the context of the health crisis we are experiencing, it is often necessary to wash our hands. Guyana and Mayotte face the same problem. So we must not send this wrong signal by deleting CNEPEOM.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u275	I understand the concerns of the signatories of the amendment: there is a need for effective control of public policies in ultramarine communities and territories, particularly with regard to economic and social development. However, CNEPEOM has not been able to deliver on its promises over the last ten years: it has only met three times in 2018, due to the practical constraints that have prevented its members from coming together to carry out work that did not really correspond to the topics foreseen in the 2009 law for the economic development of the overseas countries. In addition, in each of the two chambers, a delegation to the overseas countries and territories has been established whose scope, powers and missions enable effective and cross-cutting control of public policies in the overseas countries and territories. I would remind you that in the special committee, where we really discussed the matter, we adopted an amendment by Gabriel Serville strengthening the tasks of evaluating the State's policies assigned to these delegations. This approach seems to be relevant: such delegations will thus be more effective than NEPEOM. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u277	We must be very clear and very constructive. The Senate, the National Assembly and the EESC each have a delegation to the overseas countries and the constitutional role of the deputies is to monitor the action of the Government. Apart from the fact that CNEPEOM, while having difficulty functioning, is duplicated, all the means are gathered to ensure that this follow-up work is carried out – in particular on the issue of water, Mrs Panot. It is not because an evaluation board exists that the evaluation is carried out, that the work is carried out. On the other hand, the necessary resources have been made available to the overseas delegations of the Assemblies and the EESC. It is therefore necessary to move towards strengthening the evaluation by parliamentarians. Then, as a member of the executive, it is with a certain distance that I will decide on several issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u278	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u279	I agree with our colleague that the members of the Socialist and Related Group have called for the deletion of Article 11, which removes CNEPEOM. You highlight the redundancies that may exist with the overseas delegations of the assemblies. However, you send a very negative message to the territories concerned, with marked specificities. Neither the mission nor the composition and functioning of NEPEOM are comparable to those of delegations. Given the particular difficulties faced by the ultramarine territories, whether it be chlordecone or water, and in a context of great economic and social difficulties, we need the voice of this commission, namely, senators, members of Parliament, representatives of the state and representatives of these communities. We need all these echoes in order to truly support these territories and to be able to move forward on all outstanding issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u280	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u281	Mr. Bricout said the most important thing. I would add, however, that, to my knowledge, all or almost all of the overseas parliamentarians are opposed to the abolition of NEPEOM. We are therefore simply relaying the words of those who know, those who want, those who work in the field and who need this tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u282	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u283	We have in fact, Mr rapporteur, adopted in committee an amendment from our colleague Serville; But we are still opposed to the abolition of NEPEOM. The overseas delegations to which reference has been made are not at all composed in the same way and do not have the same mission at all. The committee includes parliamentarians, but also representatives of the ultramarine communities, EESC advisers and state representatives. The impact assessment considers that the maintenance of NEPEOM is not relevant; But we could also imagine that it is an additional step in the control of state policies. That would be helpful. I really regret that our ultramarine colleagues, because we are on Monday, cannot be present to share their experience with us in this committee. We really need, a fortiori for the Overseas Territories, a very strong control of the policies of the State, thought intelligently and collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u284	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-28-E2013.u285	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to speed up and simplify public action. The meeting is adjourned.
