ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law by Mr Pierre Dharréville and others on the introduction of a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy (No. 3007, 3078).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u2	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u3	I would like to begin by thanking the GDR Group, in particular Mr Pierre Dharréville and Mr Gabriel Serville, for having included in the National Assembly's agenda this bill, which aims to introduce a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy. In the continuation of our debates last week within the framework of the parliamentary niche of the Republican Group, this text allows the national representation to feed the current reflections on a topic that mobilizes us all: the preservation of employment and skills. I think I can say that this is our common priority, at a time when the serious economic, social, territorial and generational repercussions of this unprecedented health crisis call on us to rebuild a strong, ecological, sovereign and solidarity economy, as the President of the Republic said at his address last Sunday, to which you alluded this afternoon, Mr Serville. If it seemed possible, four months ago, to reach an unemployment rate of 7% by the end of the quinquennium thanks to the effect of our reforms undertaken over the last three years, this totally exogenous crisis, which is not due to structural defects in France, changes the situation. It should therefore be stressed that the action we have taken to support the most vulnerable companies, employees and people during the containment and deconfining phases has been decisive. Without our unprecedented mobilisation in Europe in terms of partial activity – commonly referred to as 'partial unemployment' – solidarity funds, state-guaranteed loans, sectoral support and aid to the most vulnerable, without this total mobilisation of state services, which I welcome, we would not have been able to limit business failures or avoid waves of redundancies. It is also with this same desire for protection that we have adapted in a very reactive way the necessary vocational training devices to accompany the transformation of the professions towards ecological and digital transitions. During the crisis, we expanded the eligibility conditions for the NSF-training – the support for the formation of the National Employment Fund – which is now accessible to all partially active employees of all enterprises, without any criteria of size or sector of activity. In fact, the State has borne the full costs of teaching, without an hourly ceiling. In fact, we are seeing a very strong dynamic, with the number of applications increasing by 30 per cent in a week. On that date, more than 100,000 employees are undergoing training thanks to this scheme, for a total volume of 2 million hours. Nearly 70 million were committed, of which 18 million were committed last week alone. At the same time, more than 50,000 people have applied for training through their training account, of which almost 70% have applied for distance training. Less than a month after confinement, the level of demands is 80% of what it was before the crisis. In addition, 60% of jobseekers who were undergoing pre-containment training thanks to the skills investment plan and the actions carried out by Pôle Emploi were able to continue to receive distance training. This rate rises to 90% for apprentices, which is exceptional and unprecedented: this shows an ability to adapt the training offer that will have to be strengthened. I welcome this dynamic in this debate because skills are an active protection against precariousness and unemployment, and a vehicle for emancipation. That is my deep conviction, and that is why, for the past three years, we have been working tirelessly to ensure a simpler and more massive access to the skill-based asset of the twenty-first century. That is the purpose of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which you adopted on first reading two years ago almost to the day. We have achieved unprecedented results thanks to the reforms of apprenticeship and vocational training, which have created, among other things, the CPF – a personal training account – of transition as well as a true professional development adviser. We have increased access to and democratisation of training through the "My Training Account" application. These major advances paralleled the deployment of EUR 15 billion of the Skills Investment Plan – the ICP – to finance the training of 1 million young people and 1 million job seekers far from the labour market. I would like to point out that the main objective of ICP, through regional pacts and national calls for projects, is to better identify the jobs, activities and skills of tomorrow, particularly in the area of ecological transition. It also allows, in line with the objective of your proposed law, to finance the "10000 green training" programme – or 10Kvert – which gives priority to green professions as part of the operational preparation actions for employment. I think we share the conviction that green jobs – waste management, energy performance, thermal renovation of buildings, organic farming, less energy-efficient transport – are a way to speed up the ecological transition and require massive investment in skills. Building on this ongoing transformation, we must continue to build the skills society and, more broadly, to create a genuine, universal, simple and effective professional security that accompanies everyone throughout their working life while allowing the great changes that our society requires in terms of ecological and solidarity. The rapporteur recalled the figures from INSEE, DARES – the Directorate for the animation of research, studies and statistics of the Ministry of Labour – and from Pôle Emploi: the out-of-standard situation we have been experiencing over the last few weeks requires that we go further, relying in particular on the strategic tool of vocational training in order to collectively meet the triple economic, social and ecological challenge. Our road map is clear: after massively cushioning the first consequences of the crisis by deploying the shield of partial unemployment, which has affected, over three months in total, more than 12 million of our citizens, it is now necessary, in this necessary stage of recovery, to link economy, ecology and social, to reconcile production and climate. This is particularly palpable in some territories, especially overseas – you see exactly what I am referring to, Mr Serville.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u5	Faced with this challenge, you propose to create a transitional contract and leave, based in practice on a considerable expansion of the current scope of the professional security contract created in 2011, on the one hand, and the reclassification leave created in 2002, on the other. As you have pointed out, these are two specific arrangements for accompanying employees who have been dismissed for economic reasons, whose benefit you wish to open up to the holders of CSDs, temporary workers and the holders of a construction contract, for a maximum period of 24 months, compared with 12 at present. Accompanying actions would be carried out with a view to occupational integration chosen by the employee, giving priority to the jobs necessary for the ecological and social transition of our economy. If your PPL has the merit of clearly highlighting the need to better take account of the ecological and social transition through training and vocational training projects in a logic of securing journeys, the answer it brings calls for several observations and asks several questions. First of all, I am thinking of financial sustainability for companies, which, in an already very uncertain economic context, would be affected by the reduction of the threshold for the triggering of the re-visited reclassification leave from 1000 to 500 employees. They would thus be obliged to maintain for a maximum period of two years the net wage of the previously mentioned precarious public, all of which is their responsibility, even if they are in difficulty. More generally, the desire to go through national and inter-professional negotiations, as set out in Article 3, appears to be contradictory to the desire, as set out in Articles 1 and 2, to lay down also precisely the sliders of such arrangements in the law, whereas at present the parameters of the CSP – the contract for occupational security – for example, are fixed by the social partners in the framework of an agreement approved by the State, in accordance with Article L. 1233-68 of the Labour Code. It does not provide for the duration of the CSP, which is set out in the collective agreement of 26 January 2015 on the CSP. The same applies to the allowance, the procedure for which is laid down in the same Convention. This observation of method is also an observation in substance, in that it allows me to mention the intense work of consultation with the social partners which I have been engaged for the past 15 days, at the request of the President of the Republic, on all these topics of resumption of activity, after three months during which we have intensified our dialogue at the rate of two or three meetings a week. Following the meeting held at Élysée on Thursday, June 4, we started discussions on five priority projects to safeguard employment and protect skills – our common goal – despite the obvious declines in activity. We are thus developing a system of long-term partial activity. The second project concerns the youth support plan. The dialogues we have already conducted on learning have led to strong and rapid announcements, which was important in this period when contracts are signed, but other measures to support young people are needed to ensure that their generation is not sacrificed. The development of the dynamics of vocational training is the third subject of this consultation. I agree with you that it must also accompany or even anticipate the ecological transition and the digital transformation of jobs, which are transforming the economy but also creating new opportunities. The thermal renovation of buildings is an excellent example since it is both a subject of social justice – thermal colanders being unevenly distributed according to the level of income – but also a means of reviving an economic sector, a large ecological contribution and an opportunity for employment. The fourth project concerns posted workers. The fifth relates to unemployment insurance. On this last issue, which was the subject of a monitoring debate last month, at your request, I would like to point out that we adopted, by a decree of 14 April 2020, emergency measures aimed at adapting the rules of unemployment insurance to the context of crisis and confinement, in order to combat precariousness and protect the most vulnerable. Containment has led to a high number of non-renewals of acting and short-term contracts, as well as a decline in short-term contracts. Nevertheless, for the time being, there have been few massive redundancies. This, of course, remains a risk, and that is why we want to put in place a system of long-term partial activity, a solution that is much more constructive than the PSEs – the plans to safeguard employment. In this connection, I would like to welcome the mobilization of the employment officers, whose importance I have been able to appreciate for three years in the field and whose presence I was able to see again during the confinement that they were still at the meeting:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u7	... there was no break in the compensation or in the discount; they have even provided a dematerialised accompaniment. Pôle emploi has organised itself to deal with the situation and is making every effort to ensure that these people enjoy their right to compensation in time and in time. For the same reason, we have also extended their rights. In the continuation of the pragmatic approach we have adopted since the beginning of the crisis, I repeat, a reflection is under way with the social partners to adapt our unemployment insurance rules, the reform of which was designed within the framework laid down by the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose one's professional future, in a obviously different economic context. As I was telling you three years ago, during the debate on orders, and as I said again at the time of the review of the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future, I believe deeply in social dialogue at all levels, starting with that of the company. That is why I do not recommend that the law preempt all parameters too precisely. It is, of course, up to the law to set the framework, but it is necessary to leave room for manoeuvre, 'the grain to grind', as it is said, to the social partners, who are best able to adapt to the realities of the field the various legislative arrangements, in the primary interest of the employees, but also of the enterprises and therefore of employment in the medium and long term. One thing is certain: the fruits of the ongoing consultations will be articulated to support the reconquest of our technological, digital, industrial and agricultural independence, but also the plan for the modernization of the country around the thermal renovation of buildings, the development of less polluting transport and the support for the green industries, announced by the President of the Republic. This vector of skills in the service of this objective will be one of the important points of the productive pact, which has certainly been postponed but which, therefore, feeds on these reflections and will soon be successful. For all these reasons, particularly in view of the discussions with the social partners, and while welcoming the intention, the Government cannot support the response or, therefore, the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u8	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u9	The present text, aimed at establishing a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy, provides a stone to the building of progress and the better world we call for. The global pandemic of covid-19 has shown that globalized liberal capitalism can collapse like a castle of maps, as a result of a disease that has travelled the planet in a few weeks, contaminated millions of people and caused a few hundred thousand deaths. This economic model has no future, and its fragility gives cold sweats to millions of employees in the private sector. On the other hand, Communist MEPs keep saying this, the planet will not have the means to host us for a long time if we maintain our unsustainable standard of living. The most polluting economic activities, supported by the powers of money, make us run for our loss. Paradoxically, millions of jobs are linked to these sectors; It is therefore difficult to scratch them with a feather trait and put millions of people in great difficulty on the grounds that they work in the wrong place. Only a transition chosen by people will make it possible to emerge from this paradox. We must equip ourselves to succeed in this transition. One of the tools necessary for the ecological and social transition of the economy is the proposed law that the Communist deputies submit to you. The current crisis demonstrates the need for a strategist and protective state. Among the leaders, even the strongest advocates of neoliberalism and all the market powers – starting with Emmanuel Macron and his government – suddenly remembered it. Thus, we have moved from "there is no magic money" to "no matter what it costs", and yesterday's totems – a public deficit of less than 3% of GDP and debt reduction – have regressed to the last priority, behind the need to support an economy that has dangerously wavered. But Communist MEPs are well aware that once growth is regained, the leaders, as usual, will return to the precipice and continue to lead the world to the precipice, while making workers pay for saving the economy. In the face of these risks, our bill aims to create a new right for employees, by meeting three fundamental objectives. The first is to create a rapid aid scheme for workers who are victims of the crisis and, in doing so, to put an end to your unbearable unemployment reform, the sole aim of which is to weaken aid to the unemployed. The second objective is to ensure continuity of social rights, regardless of the status of employees, whether they are employed or not. In a precarious world of work, certain rights must be attached to the individual rather than to the status, in order to secure individuals and make working life less dangerous and less worrying. The third objective is to deploy an incentive policy of employment and training to prepare today's employees for the jobs of tomorrow, and therefore to embark on a worker-friendly transition. The crisis will certainly not be a gift, and the state must prepare for a major ecological and social turning point to finally approach the twenty-first century with tools that match the challenges. As early as October 2009, I, together with Martine Billard, had tabled a bill on ecological planning. It must be noted that, while the events have made us right, the leaders have still not found it useful to look into them. We are now at the foot of the wall, and this bill would move us forward: it would allow employees who are victims of economic redundancies or at the end of a precarious contract – CDD or interim – to keep their wages net for two years and to benefit from training adapted to the economy of tomorrow: ecology, social economy and solidarity, transport, energy transition, thermal renovation of buildings, and I pass. Their wages would come either from the company, if it has more than 500 employees, or from the employment centre, if it is smaller. Such a transition contract would allow employees to train effectively, without losing money, and thus to approach the future much more serenely than today. Unemployment is largely due to a mismatch between the training of employees and the positions offered, as you know, Madam Minister. Our bill would facilitate the reorientation of employees to sectors of the future and to provide jobs. It would allow young people to embark on certain sectors, to take on radical changes, to move towards future activities contributing to the ecological and social transition of the economy, while feeling secure. The proposal for a law on job security and training, tabled in 2017 by the GDR Group, was already in line with this. Already at the time, the Communist deputies intended to fight against the precariousness of the wage-earnership by granting new training rights to the employees. These legislative proposals respond to the increasing number of career changes due to the precariousness of the labour market, but also to the willingness of some employees to experience different experiences during their working lives. Training is indeed one of the tools for the emancipation of employees. It allows them to be involved in their professional careers, to extract themselves from sectors without a future or to evolve in others, where technical developments require a major change in skills. The State must take advantage of the evolution of the right to training to guide and support employees who wish to change their profession and move towards tomorrow's jobs. This, the self-regulated market cannot; Only a strategist state, listening to the citizens, is able to do so, I repeat. Environmental and social emergencies have the necessary corollary of democratic urgency, and this is valid at all levels. Under these conditions, the ecological transition of the economy can be carried out without violence: without dry closures of companies, without relocations of industries and without massive dismissals. This draft law contains four articles to serve as a basis for a broader reflection on a fundamental reform of employment, training and the ecological and social transition of the economy. Article 1 transforms the occupational security contract into a transitional contract, open to employees who have been dismissed for economic reasons or who have completed a short contract – CDD, acting, construction contract – in a company with less than 500 employees. These employees in training will receive the equivalent of their last net salary for two years. Such a duration is interesting because it will allow them to deepen their skills and even to reorient themselves deeply. That is the ambition of the text. Article 2 creates a similar scheme for employees who are dismissed from companies with more than 500 employees, by transforming reclassification leave into a transitional contract. The contracts are identical regardless of the size of the enterprise; only changes the financing of the salary received during the training: to less than 500 employees, it is assumed by Pôle emploi; Beyond that, it is assumed by the company. Section 3 refers all the details of the application of this project to the interprofessional negotiation, which is dear to you, Minister. We have the political will to put employers' and employees' representatives back at the heart of the scheme. Since Emmanuel Macron's election, he and his government have continued to despise intermediate bodies. We have seen it with all the consultations – on pensions, unemployment insurance, vocational training – and we still see it with the Ségur de la santé: it is only notes taken, which do not involve anything. Communist MPs want to restore confidence in the negotiation, even when it is complex, far from the facade consultations that the government of Édouard Philippe uses to pretend to be listening to the French. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] The aim of this text is to come into force as soon as possible, to help the victims of the upcoming crisis as quickly as possible, and to get out of the economic, ecological and social crisis in which we will soon dive if nothing is done. The possibility for employees to train now, by maintaining their level of pay, will be a formidable tool to direct training towards the needs of the labour market, and to allow employees to change sectors without taking too much risk. The mechanisms on which this bill is based yield excellent results: according to the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics, since 2015, two thirds of the beneficiaries of occupational security contracts have returned to work before two years. It is time to take action and expand this mechanism, in order to advance employees and orient the labour market towards the necessary ecological and social transition of the economy. We will thus send an optimistic message to young people, who are seriously concerned about their future. Let's be on the rendezvous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u10	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u11	The unprecedented health crisis we are going through has and will have an impact on the economy, and therefore on employment; It could lead to many redundancies. This, Mr rapporteur, we all do. We also share the objectives of the proposed law: to avoid as many job losses as possible, to protect more precarious audiences, but also to review the functioning and content of the training system in order to adapt it to the reality of today and to better respond to the challenges of tomorrow. All of this, of course, we share. However, our views differ on the method. Indeed, we believe that this bill is not appropriate to the issues at stake and even provides a bad response to the risk of fuelling long-term unemployment, a scourge that we have been fighting against for many years. Clearly, we must act to meet the needs of companies while ensuring the protection of employees. We believe that it is up to the social partners to start this reflection. That is why the Government launched a dialogue on 4 June, which is continuing, as you know. The method chosen corresponds to the demands of the trade unions themselves, as they clearly indicated to us at their hearing by the committee. Moreover, they are not necessarily in favour of a generalisation of the two mechanisms that you propose to extend and transform: the occupational security contract and the reclassification leave. It is also not up to us to determine the duration and the way in which the two new arrangements that you wish to create will be implemented, especially since, in the context of the current consultation, the social partners are studying the ways in which the parameters of the CSP will evolve. In other words, we believe in social dialogue: it would be inappropriate to force the autonomy of the social partners and to initiate a legislative initiative, while the negotiations are not over. In the meantime, in order to deal with the emergency, several tools can be mobilised by companies in difficulty; I am thinking in particular of the reduced activity arrangements for retention in employment or the collective performance agreements, two mechanisms which have helped to preserve employment so far. In addition, as part of the extension of the state of emergency, the partial activity scheme will be maintained; It will be a significant support measure for businesses but also a protective measure for employees. In addition, in the context of the negotiations between the Government and the social partners, the modalities for a long-term partial activity scheme are being developed. You will have understood, preserving employment at all costs is the top priority! We therefore need to have a long-term vision. In this sense, we share your willingness to direct our economy towards greener growth. Thanks to the recovery and support plan, responses have already been provided to a number of sectors, such as automobiles, tourism and aeronautics. As regards the preservation of the dynamics of vocational training, i.e. the raising of skills, this is one of the major projects defined by the President of the Republic in the context of discussions with the social partners. We have the opportunity to review our training offer so that it becomes better suited to the so-called "future" trades and business needs. Indeed, in a changing economic context, we need to rethink our vocational training system, particularly in view of the challenges of digital technology and the ecological transition. The Government has also strengthened the National Training Foundation to encourage companies to train their employees in part-time unemployment. All enterprises using the partial activity have thus become eligible for this scheme. The educational cost of these trainings is borne by the State in full, thanks to an envelope that has increased from EUR 60 million to EUR 500 million. We will probably have to think about a new shift in the ICP budget according to territorial realities or new rules of abundance. Finally – above all, I should say – the protection of our labour market also requires support for the hiring of younger people. They will be 700000 entering the labour market next September. In view of this, the strengthening of our learning system is a significant lever. The Government is committed to strengthening it with an ambitious €1 billion support plan to best support young people in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Given these challenges and the means that have been or will be deployed in the near future, the La République en marche group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u12	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u13	The health crisis that our country has been experiencing for months now leaves room for an economic and social crisis of an unprecedented magnitude that gives rise to our total concern. We all know here that the coming months will be crucial. It is our duty to prevent and stem unemployment that is expected to be unprecedented. It is more than imperative to prevent the social crisis that confronts us and to put in place measures to accompany all French people who have lost their jobs during and after the confinement period. It is indeed essential to maintain the standard of living of the French even if the costs increase. It is obviously about the future of our country's economy, but also about the future of our society and of all the French, legitimately concerned. According to the data available, unemployment is expected to reach 10 per cent, while the Ministry of the Economy estimates it to be 7.5 per cent, a rate that was already more than unsatisfactory. We must therefore act now, it is obvious, but with reason, consistency and pragmatism. This will inevitably be achieved through the vocational training of the workforce, which must be at the heart of our future decisions. This will also involve dialogue and consultation with all the social partners, elected representatives and trade union representatives. The purpose of this draft law is to create a transitional leave and a transitional contract on the basis of the occupational security contract, which was created in January 2011 in order to support for one year an employee who has been dismissed for economic reasons in a company with less than 1000 employees, by paying him his full salary and by offering him reinforced support in order to help him find a job as soon as possible. About 55,000 people benefit from this contract of professional security to date. The reclassification contract concerns employees who are dismissed for economic reasons in enterprises with more than 1000 employees, to whom the company must pay their full salary during the notice and then 65 % of their gross salary, and accompany them in their search for employment. In practice, this bill aims to increase the number of beneficiaries and extend the duration of the initial scheme. As a result, CSDs, interims and construction contracts would be taken into account. It is estimated that this extension would cover an additional 2 million to 3 million people, for a period of up to 12 to 24 months. With this text, the number of beneficiaries would no longer be in thousands but in millions. The cost of this arrangement would literally explode as our debt is already growing at an unprecedented rate. Let us not forget that today's debt is likely to be the taxes of tomorrow. As a reminder, the social security deficit amounts to more than 41 billion euros as a result of measures taken by the Government during confinement. If, in an out-of-standard situation, we undoubtedly need to provide an unprecedented response, this must not in any way make us forget the reality of the economic and financial cost of our policies. The measures mentioned in this bill would only increase our deficits uncontrollably. In addition, Pôle Emploi would not be able to accommodate and accompany millions of additional cases in the emergency. The portfolios of Pôle Emploi advisors are already very well supplied, a situation which can only worsen with the current crisis. The present draft law seems to be unworkable and inapplicable to Pôle Emploi professionals, given the current situation. It is essential to accompany the French who have suffered an unprecedented health crisis. This must be done in an appropriate, pragmatic, coherent manner, taking into account the reality of our public accounts and the debt that we must also manage. For these reasons, the Republican Group is not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u14	That's not possible, Mr. Ramadier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u15	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u16	The unprecedented epidemic of covid-19 that has affected our country has forced us to stop our economy in order to halt the spread of the virus. It was a choice taken in order to preserve many lives, especially that of the most fragile people. This decision has had many consequences for the economic and social situation of our country, as it also has in our neighbouring countries and outside the borders of the European Union. Let us recall that the Government has deployed enormous resources to contain the effects of this health crisis: 100 billion euros of PGE – state-guaranteed loans –, 4 billion for the solidarity fund, 3 billion for the carry-over of burdens and 25 billion for partial unemployment. At the social level, many measures have also been taken to preserve the resources of citizens, whether they work or are job seekers. The persons on duty were secured by the retention in employment during the period of confinement and the job seekers had their rights maintained and extended for three months. Nevertheless, the activity only gradually resumes and many employees will be affected by the cessation of activity of thousands of enterprises. Jobseekers, whether they have been unemployed for many months or newly arrived on the labour market, will therefore face increased difficulties in accessing employment. The bill that you are submitting to us aims to cushion the consequences of the economic and social crisis for employees who are unemployed after the health crisis. You propose to broaden the scope of the beneficiaries of the existing occupational security contracts and reclassification leave, which combine support and training to enable a rapid reclassification in the professions of the ecological transition, which we must make successful. You propose, in particular, to open up the benefits of the devices to temporary workers and to the worksite CSDs and to extend the accompaniment up to 24 months. We can only reach you regarding the objectives that you pursue. The strengthening of the resources allocated to this type of support, which has proved to be effective, will certainly be considered. However, any extension of scope and duration can only be validated on the basis of negotiations with the social partners. Since discussions are under way with the Government, it does not appear appropriate to legislate ahead of the outcome of these negotiations. Furthermore, your proposal is not based on any impact assessment, either on the number of new beneficiaries or on the nature of the revenue to be allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u17	How could we have!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u18	Government bills don't have them themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u19	In the current operation, the employer's participation in the reclassification leave is based on the employee's notice allowance. However, such an allowance does not exist for CSDs. It would therefore be difficult to increase the trainee's remuneration beyond the AER, the return-to-employment assistance allowance. At the end of the discussions with the social partners, it will also be necessary to ensure a proper balance between the various forms of support. If, of course, we need to take care of new jobseekers as early as possible, we will need to further strengthen the resources allocated to long-term jobseekers and also to ensure that new workers are properly integrated, particularly through apprenticeship. On all these issues, the Government is listening to actors on the ground. For example, the long-term unemployment zero-territories scheme could soon be sustained. Similarly, in order to address the risk of dropping out in the use of apprenticeships, the Government has granted exceptional incentives for recruitment up to the level of licence and has increased the time to find a company under the training contract from three to six months. As you see, Mr rapporteur, it is a matter of taking into account all those potentially affected by unemployment in this period. It would therefore not be satisfactory to deal with the issue in a piecemeal manner, through a provision such as the one you present it. For these reasons, the MODEM Group will not support your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u20	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u21	With the health crisis of the covid-19, due to the containment decision, the Government could not avoid the almost complete cessation of the economy for long weeks. On each of the dimensions – health, social, economic and sociological – this crisis evolves in cascade with, each time, an acute crisis and a slow and progressive return to normal. Of course, measures have been taken – sectoral aid, partial unemployment, state-guaranteed loans, solidarity funds, etc. – to safeguard skills and employment in the company. Each one goes on his proposals, more environmentally friendly than the other, to revive the economic machine. However, it is already known that the violence of the crisis, despite all the good wills – whether we agree with the proposed solutions or not – will lead to numerous company failures and consequently job losses as the state withdraws from its financial support. This bill from our colleagues in the GDR Group, which we will support, provides a real and lasting response to the medium-term social consequences of the health crisis. It is also of interest to embrace an economic future that we would like to see greener. It introduces a wage-training guarantee scheme which offers a comprehensive and lasting mechanism for the protection of employees while at the same time better preparing us for the ecological and social transition. However, some inaccuracies remain. First of all, the financial aspect of the scheme should, I believe, be discussed with the social partners, of course, but also with large communities such as the region, whose training is a major competence. This bill also has the merit of integrating private temporary staff as a result of the crisis. I have a number of questions here. How does the return to acting employment occur once the device has been integrated? By extension, how does the return journeys between the interim and the device take place, and how, therefore, is the amount of the benefit calculated? There are also some shortcomings, as the mechanism will not be sufficient to deal with the scale of the upcoming crisis, even if it provides an early response that the majority would be well advised to hear. For the Socialist and Related Group, the first step in this proposal would be to abandon the July 2019 reform of unemployment insurance, which contributes to weakening our social protection system and makes it difficult for many workers, and, secondly, to provide a more comprehensive response to more diverse situations. Moreover, this scheme could be designed to complement our plan entitled "For an economic, social and ecological rebound", which proposes in particular an increase in the employment capacity in the integration structures by the economy, the extension of the experiment Territories zero long-term unemployed, the reinforcement of the workforce of Pôle emploi for a better accompaniment. The procedure as presented is followed by the dismissal of an employee. Our group, on the other hand, proposes an intervention before the dismissal: an extension of the partial but coupled activity scheme. In addition to the PPL, which tends to allow time for a new unemployed person to complete his or her skills or acquire new ones to bounce back to a new job, it would be to allow employees to adapt to new industrial processes to the benefit of a company that has to tackle an ecological shift. This would be very useful, for example, in the automotive equipment sector, whose production has been disrupted by the appetite for electric or hybrid vehicles. An ecological shift that strongly affects production and these processes therefore requires the support of companies. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will therefore vote in favour of this text, which ultimately provides a response to the social consequences of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u22	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u23	First of all, let me welcome the consideration of this bill, which raises a key issue: post-world reconstruction. Beyond our economy, it is our common future that is at stake. The covid pandemic has resulted in a near complete cessation of our economy and unfortunately risks resulting in job destruction and an increase in the number of layoffs. The first effects are already there: the number of jobseekers increased sharply between March and April, with an increase of 843,000; or 843,000 people, these are not statistics but disturbed lives, families in difficulty, an entry into precariousness and concerns about the future. Strong measures in favour of businesses are of course necessary. Bankruptcy should be avoided as much as possible, there should be flexibility in their administrative obligations, and there should be a postponement or even cancellation, where possible, of the contributions to which they are liable. The Government has taken steps in this direction, and of course we hope that they will succeed. But more will most likely have to be done. It is also imperative to do everything possible to better support those who aspire to a first job or will have to return to work, thus avoiding their long-term exclusion from the labour market. Young people, in particular, are on the front line in the face of limited employment opportunities and a labour market in tension; They must not be a sacrificed generation. We therefore fully share the ambition to better support our fellow citizens in the difficult period ahead. The aim would be to create a transitional leave and a transitional contract on the basis of the occupational security contract and the reclassification contract. It is true that, since its creation in 2011, the CSP has been an effective mechanism for the return to employment. It was reviewed in 2015 to increase its incentive character. It's a device that works. You propose to extend the scheme from one to two years and to extend the scope of its beneficiaries by including in particular the CSDs, the interim and the construction contracts. We question the additional costs that this measure would represent and the fact that it would be paid by the companies. Is there not an inconsistency, at a time when we find that companies are in difficulty, to propose, of course, a contract, but to ask them in addition to paying? We believe that this is the limit of this proposal. The economic situation does not lend itself to this when one measures the current difficulties of enterprises in almost all sectors of activity. Adapting the CSP is not a bad idea, but this reflection must be carried out in consultation with the social partners before any inclusion in the law. Beyond this, imperative support, this proposal also has another ambition: it aims to encourage the transformation of our economy by allowing people to reconvert or train in jobs linked to the ecological and social transition. We can only share this objective: it is essential, in the long term, to encourage the evolution of our economy towards a green and socially just growth – I am talking about growth policy and I am grateful to the GDR Group for not giving in to the mirage of the theories of decline and for keeping at work its full place in our society. This growth must be green because the climate emergency is not waiting. It must also be fair because the transformations of our economy must not leave anyone on the side of the road under penalty of fuelling the fractures and the feeling of abandonment; Our whole social pact is at stake. The period ahead is ultimately a challenge for the country's cohesion. As you have understood, if the UDI-I Group shares the philosophy of this bill, it presents, in our view, certain limits, because we cannot vote in favour; But we believe that the subject is very important and that, for years and months to come, it will be essential to be able to discuss it with the social partners and to put us all around the table together in order to try to find a solution in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u24	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u25	With the epidemic of covid-19, the world economy stopped. The French economy has not been spared: it has undergone full confinement, making it feared for the survival of our companies and the employment of our fellow citizens. The Government is now anticipating a fall in gross domestic product of 11 per cent this year. The latest unemployment figures are also worrying: in April, an additional 840,000 jobseekers were registered. Fear is particularly strong for younger people, short contracts, precarious jobs, seasonal food and tourism. According to INSEE, 500,000 jobs have already been destroyed in the first half of the year. The example of temporary employment is notable: it is down by around 40%; By comparison, during the economic crisis of 2008-2009, it had fallen by about 13 per cent. It is therefore little to say that the economic and social crisis ahead is unprecedented. But crises must not be merely moments of desolation; They can also be unique moments of choice, decisive moments in the strict sense of the term. They can create historic opportunities to deliberately and sustainably change society, in order to build it to the image we want. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore shares the fears and ambitions of the GDR Group: it is indeed necessary to anticipate the future disappearance of many jobs. Since the imposition of containment, the partial activity device has been more than beneficial. It has worked to ensure that businesses, especially the smallest ones, do not disappear. But this device will not last forever. In such a context, it goes without saying that a challenge to the reform of unemployment insurance is necessary. The fear that a large number of people will turn into poverty and that those already vulnerable will sink into precariousness must necessarily lead us to offer support and support for employment, benefiting both businesses and employees, but also society and, of course, safeguarding the planet. Our group finds the lead in this bill interesting. More than ever, tomorrow's jobs must contribute to the social and ecological transition that we all want. We therefore share the objective of the proposed law, which makes training a powerful lever for safeguarding employment, on the one hand, and for social transition, on the other. On the other hand, we differ on the calibration of the scheme and on its financing. We have some doubts about entrusting companies with the responsibility of paying for the transitional contract scheme. We believe that it is rather up to the State, particularly through unemployment insurance and vocational training, to carry out this task. However, this does not prevent us from imagining a specific contribution from the larger companies, whose modalities could be determined by social dialogue. The social partners must therefore be at the heart of the discussions on future arrangements more than ever; the regions too, since this is about training. In this regard, we welcome Article 3, which provides for the organisation of national and inter-branch negotiations. Social dialogue is more than ever to be encouraged because it is the only one able to draw and initiate the necessary ecological and social transition. It is this negotiation that should make possible the emergence of the new accompanying arrangements protecting employees and supporting companies. Since the beginning of the month, the Ministry of Labour and the social partners have been working together to support employment. Measures have already been announced on learning. Other projects are under way: unemployment insurance, partial unemployment, youth employment and training. This is an opportunity for me to ask you again, Madam Minister, about the unemployment of seasonal workers: we are going to face a disaster and many are very concerned, especially in tourist areas, where many people are unable to work and will soon find themselves without resources. While our group will not be able to give its full support to this bill, because of the arguments I have just mentioned, we believe, however, that it is one of the elements of reflection that it is imperative to take into account in as broad a approach as possible, if we are to face in the best possible conditions the economic crisis ahead and effectively address the social and ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u26	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u27	First of all, I would like to thank the GDR Group – in particular my colleague Gabriel Serville – for proposing this text, which reminds us of the urgent need for an ecological and solidarity bifurcation. To achieve this, mobilization must be general. It is unacceptable for people to be deprived of employment when so much is to be built. Yet the social plans – which have nothing social – are unfolding before our eyes with their lot of broken lives. I am thinking of Renault's employees in Choisy-le-Roi, of Air France's huge redundancies plan, which, I would remind you, has received 7 billion euros of public money, of La Halle's employees or of Parisien's journalists, in short, of all those people to whom you order to be more flexible, to adapt, to accept jobs miles away from home with wages of misery, even if you do not see their loved ones anymore. To all these people you promise hell. You are planning the second episode of your unemployment insurance reform for September. In normal times, such a reform should never have come about, but you go further: you keep it even in times of crisis! You remove more than 1 million unemployed people from unemployment insurance, reduce their benefits and encourage precarious jobs. I assure you, minister: the associations have even numbered 1.3 million. Moreover, if this reform were good at fighting unemployment, you would have applied it at the very moment when unemployment was exploding; If you have not done so, it is proof that it is only good to destroy the unemployed. You have learned no lessons from the health crisis we are going through, of social, economic, ecological and even civilizational origin. At the end of the confinement, while many people lost their jobs, others questioned the meaning of theirs. They suddenly felt useless, isolated in meaningless jobs. David Graeber says so well about "concealed jobs": a human being deprived of the faculties of having a significant impact on the world ceases to exist. In his address to the French, the President of the Republic passed a clear message: produce, produce, produce, work more. But to produce what, for whom, for what purpose? David Graeber replied: economies around the world have become huge wind-producing machines. We do not need to produce more; We must first collectively define what our needs are. However, when you ask the public what it wants, it is certainly not larger cars, more efficient washing machines or more gadgets; Rather, it wants healthy air, good health, quality water and food, fulfilling relationships. The ecological and social transition is an opportunity to create millions of useful jobs. It gives meaning to an absurd world that prefers the trader to the caregiver, despises the poor by holding him responsible for what he is, deliberately confuses the being and having him. The ecological and solidarity bifurcation puts the world in order. We ourselves support the realization of a right to employment with the employer State as a last resort. In these circumstances, the State could hire unemployed people for socially profitable and environmentally sustainable jobs, which meet basic needs and which we desperately lack because they are left out of a market that is only for profit. This bill goes in this direction: do not condemn jobless people to an uncertain or mortifying future. A society that leaves 10 per cent of its population on the roadside is a sick society that produces deaths. Every year, 14,000 people die as a result of long-term unemployment. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The group La France insoumise will therefore vote in favour of this text, because for hundreds of thousands of people plagued by the crisis, it marks a much more desirable future than this government will ever prepare.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u28	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u29	For several weeks now, we have been regularly called upon to discuss the reconstruction of our economic and social model. I believe that there is finally a consensus among us that the biggest mistake would be to build the world of tomorrow by retaining yesterday's methods. Yet it is easy to fall into this trap, simply by opposing environmental emergency and health and economic emergencies, when they all seem to me to call for the same structural change in our societies and invite us to question overt globalization, global value chains or public policies that have weakened our health systems. The management of the health crisis that we have experienced has suffered from policies that are in reaction, not in anticipation. The challenge now ahead is immense, because we need to anticipate the dangers posed by climate change, the collapse of biodiversity and the depletion of natural resources; We will not be able to avoid thinking about these issues. Therefore, Mr rapporteur, your proposal for a law is a salutary first step. It promotes the idea of socially acceptable ecological reconstruction by making new forms of social protection conditional on taking into account the issues related to the ecological transition. It proposes another way, which would avoid repeating the mistakes made in the face of the pitfalls of the 2008 crisis. To those States and businesses that call for the exclusion of the ecological transition and for time to recover from the economic crisis in order to always wait and get to the ecological transition, your proposal for a law opposes another model, which makes the ecological transition the cornerstone of the exit from the crisis. However, only a real change of strategy would enable us to achieve this objective. The State can no longer, as in 2008, simply socialize the losses of companies without making them accountable. However, the strategy seems to have been favoured by the Government. The Écologie démocratie solidarité group has already expressed its views on this subject on the occasion of the announcements relating to the rescue of Renault. Of course, the state must support Renault and save its know-how and jobs, but if it asks for a profound transformation of its business. The EDS Group opposes any unconditional recapitalisation and hopes that the rescue of companies will be subject to social and ecological criteria. It is necessary to do so quickly because the unemployment rate is already rising and will be above the 10% mark this year. Let us not forget that it still stood at 8.6% in January, i.e. before the pandemic; Our society was already suffering from mass unemployment, even if the curve was changing in the right direction. Rebuilding in the same way will not allow us to remedy it; This is precisely why we need to reinvent ourselves – the word is fashionable, but perhaps we should give it body. While some sectors need to be relocated and will certainly create jobs, others will undergo profound changes and will have to reduce or even eliminate their activities. By prioritizing the preservation of existing jobs, without reflecting on the need to transform some of them, the Government continues to repeat the same mistakes. The crisis recovery plan must be based on the question of support and employment in the transition, because ecological reconstruction creates a great deal of jobs, as is repeated in the envi ronment. The net employment potential created by the ecological transition was estimated at 900000 jobs by ADEME, the Environment and Energy Management Agency. For the only thermal renovation of buildings – an example repeatedly cited this evening, and one of the priorities of the EDS group – each million invested would create an average of 15 jobs; Knowing that to live up to the needs, billions of euros would have to be spent, it is rather a good augury. Investing in major ecological works to generate jobs and at the same time accompany professional transitions is what our goal should be. I believe that by focusing on your proposal for a law on vocational training, you have been able to point the finger at what should be of concern to us in the coming months. Vocational training is indeed a response to the major challenge ahead: understanding the economic crisis and reinventing our development model to take account of the environmental emergency. For all these reasons, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will vote unsurprisingly for the bill, even though it obviously contains a number of imprecisions – we are not completely naive. Firstly, it seems complicated to place the burden of training solely on companies. This is indeed the weak point of the text, at a time when the latter are already in difficulty as a result of the health crisis. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Secondly, if there is a strong potential for job creation, to activate it, it is imperative to accelerate the ecological transition. We hope that the results of the Citizens' Climate Convention will lead us in this direction. We will have these debates on the occasion of the consideration of the third amending finance bill; The EDS Group will then support a number of amendments to this effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u30	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u31	I am taking the floor this evening to replace my colleague Paul Christophe in the context of the first reading of the bill which aims to guarantee to any unemployed employee following the epidemic of the covid -19 the maintenance of his net salary for two years and to ensure the strengthening of the rights in terms of professional support and training. The ongoing crisis requires a substantial adjustment of our public employment policies. The rise in unemployment is unprecedented among those under the age of 25: according to the figures of Pôle Emploi, it would have increased by 29% compared with February. The bill presents the merit of outlining possible solutions to address this situation. The report highlights the suffering of Pôle Emploi's public service and advocates for the reinforcement of its workforce to ensure adequate and continuous support for job seekers. It is true that the lack of resources is staggering, as already mentioned in the special report on the "Work and Employment" mission drawn up in the context of the review of the draft budget regulation and approval of the accounts for 2019. An effective employment policy cannot be pursued without a high-quality public service enabling supply and demand to be linked. We therefore support this idea. We also support the need to take better account of environmental and social transition requirements in the context of training. Indeed, the epidemic has raised many questions about the professional development of our society: certain professions have proved indispensable to the daily lives of our citizens even though they were not valued at their right level; I am, of course, thinking of professions in the medical and social sector. It is important to recentralize our public policies around the valuing of these skills, both to ensure that vocations are born and to encourage the values of living together that these professions induce. However, if we understand the intention of solidarity and generosity that is behind the text, we do not wish to base the whole system of adaptation of the training courses concerned on companies. Article 2 of the draft law transforms reclassification leave, for employees employed by undertakings with at least 1000 employees who may be dismissed on economic grounds, into transitional leave for employees of any undertaking with at least 500 employees who are at risk of economic dismissal or who have reached the end of a precarious contract. These employees would benefit from an accompanying arrangement towards a new job chosen by the employer for a maximum period of two years during which the employment contract and the previous net salary would be maintained. We do not believe that the ecological and solidarity transition will begin with an increase in social security contributions for the employer. It is not by suffocating private initiative that a new dynamic in favour of these new issues will emerge. Mr rapporteur, as you said in committee last week, our responsibility in the context of parliamentary niches is to make proposals. With the one you are submitting to us, you are asking questions and you are proposing the beginnings of solutions which unfortunately will not be able to fit into the concrete given the economic imperatives that currently weigh on our companies. It is for this reason that the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the bill, while supporting with interest your intention of reforming training in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u32	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u33	From the comments made in the general discussion, which I listened very carefully, it is clear that we almost all agree on the need to concern ourselves with the situation of future jobseekers in order to provide them with the answers they expect. I thank the colleagues who have spoken in favour of our bill, both those who have expressed strong conviction and those who have expressed their support in half a word, barely hiding. We also mean those who have expressed an unfavorable opinion, even if we do not share it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u34	What a democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u35	How elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u36	We know that the rest of the discussion will be quick. However, even for history alone, it seems to me important to make some observations at this stage on both form and substance. Our bill does not constitute a Copernician revolution: the mechanisms it puts forward only rely on others that already exist and which we call for improvement in view of the very tense situation of employment after the health crisis. Madam Minister, you have felt that we will have to change our perspective. We agree with you, which is also the case with the colleagues who spoke in the general debate, and that is not a problem. We repeated enough during the crisis that there would be a pre-covid and a post-covid; This will require a paradigm shift and a change in how we reason and design the world, employment and work. However, when I heard some speakers, I felt that we were stuck in the same way, which leads us to ask the questions, which are certainly necessary, but which prevents us from moving forward, in particular that of the cost. We are told that the implementation of our bill would be costly. Let us be clear: nothing can be done free of charge in this area. I would also like to remind you that the President of the Republic has sent a message which has been perfectly understood by telling us that we are at war and that, "whatever it costs", the economy of the country would be supported. We have kept this episode perfectly in memory. Madam Minister, you said we need to go further. Once again, we fully agree, but we believe that there is an urgent need to move forward more quickly. This does not mean that we have to do things less well: we have to do things both well and quickly. Unemployed workers are already at the door of Pôle Emploi, while others will be coming soon. It is up to us to find the answers as soon as possible, especially since the future is full of uncertainties: we do not know how the coronavirus will evolve in the world or whether a pandemic can again affect France and its overseas countries. It is therefore important to respond quickly to unemployed employees, who are in no way responsible for their situation. The cost of the measure should remain limited: Madam Minister, you yourself have indicated that there should be no massive layoffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u37	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u38	I may have misunderstood, but that's what I heard... The cost would therefore not be insurmountable. Furthermore, as I have already said, we are not trying to introduce new provisions into the law, but to improve those that already exist by broadening the scope of the beneficiaries' employees and the way in which they are taken over. The reclassification leave and the occupational security contract are already financed by employers or employment centres; In this case, therefore, we do not invent the wire to cut the butter, we adapt it. To return to Pôle emploi, the social partners have told us that, regardless of the path and direction we are going to take, given the increase in the number of jobseekers, the improvement of the quality of this public service – as well as that of public services in general – must involve a considerable increase in its workforce. The exact proportion of this increase remains to be determined, but the more counsellors to accommodate job seekers, the better they will be oriented. Finally, the GDR Group has never intended to phagocytize social dialogue: Article 3 of the draft law states that an inter-professional dialogue at national level will have to be carried out, which will be open to the social partners. These are due to this division of roles and it is normal: each actor must know how to stay in his or her place. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I will stop there; thank you again to the colleagues who have been in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u40	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u41	A few words to shed light on the debate. We are currently working intensively with the social partners to take the most relevant measures in the face of the economic crisis, and therefore the employment crisis, which awaits us. The priority today is prevention, because it is still time to act to avoid the explosion of unemployment as much as possible. Thus, we are actively working on the rapid entry into force of the long-term partial activity device, APLD, which you voted for and whose sliders we are defining. Indeed, the APLD is an alternative at the social level: it is always better to prevent dismissals and maintain employment contracts. As far as the recovery plan is concerned, there is one point on which we should all agree: it would be illusory to think that we are going to find exactly the same situation as before the health crisis, and therefore economic. Some areas emerge deeply bruised –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u42	For example, the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u43	...I'm thinking about tourism, automobiles, aeronautics. Some others, on the contrary, will be well or even overheated. Our production system will undoubtedly undergo profound changes. We did not want this crisis; No one is responsible for it, it is not linked to structural, economic or social problems in France. On the contrary, the measures we had taken over the past three years to remedy the country's deficits and structural difficulties had put us on a clearly ascending slope, even if not everything was perfect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u44	Oh, that, no, it wasn't all perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u45	It will never be perfect – unfortunately this is life! But unemployment had fallen sharply, reaching 8.1% in February – 7.9% in metropolitan France – the lowest figure in eleven years. For the past three years, we have collectively created 500,000 jobs – national companies, public authorities. Investment was at the highest level in a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u46	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u47	Our country had become, for the first time in its history, the first destination for foreign investment. In February we said in this House that all the indicators were green. This is never a guarantee, but one could reasonably expect to reach an unemployment rate of 7% at the end of the quinquennium. This crisis is therefore not linked to an action deficit, nor to structural problems in France, which were being solved. Totally exogenous, without economic or social origin, however, it has a huge impact on these areas. This is the whole paradox, both in our country and elsewhere: it is the first time in history that we are experiencing such an exogenous crisis that has such a strong impact. Indeed, the recession that we are experiencing can only be compared to the Second World War. All the economic crises we have experienced since then were of a lesser magnitude. In this context, whatever efforts are made to accelerate the recovery, the economy will not be exactly the same. This event that we have not been able to avoid, which has prevailed on us, must at least – I agree with you on this – serve something positive: the acceleration of the transformation of our productive system which must become more sovereign, more ecological and more supportive, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic. It is towards this objective, which we share, that the tools mobilized under the recovery plan must be massively oriented, which we will prepare and discuss in the coming weeks. These tools, dedicated to skills development and training, are very numerous and well funded: skills investment plan, personal training account, NEF-training – training support for the National Employment Fund – whose resources I increased from €50 million to €500 million in the context of the crisis. All these mechanisms must be oriented towards the ecological and solidarity transition, and digital transformation: that is what will enable the economy to return and thus to create jobs. Some of them will be the same as before, others will be different, but they represent the key to the future. As for the social dialogue, to which you are attached like me, I would like to share my experience with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u48	I'm sure you have experience with layoffs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u49	If we define everything, in detail, in the law and the decree, there is little left to the social partners to grind. Thus, setting the durations in the text deprives them of the possibility of doing so themselves. Mrs Dubie, seasonal workers, especially those in tourism, are a serious problem. The agricultural activity, however, has not been interrupted and we lack even seasonal ones in this area: we have carried out many actions with the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions, the FNSEA – of which I met the president yesterday – and Pôle Emploi to mobilize them. On the contrary, the tourism and hotel-restoration sector has been hit with great vigour, hence the specific plan for it, announced recently by the Prime Minister. We have decided to continue to pay 100% reimbursement until the end of September for companies in the sector which use partial unemployment. On the "Employment Mobilization" platform, which we launched with Pôle Emploi, we also planned a specific part dedicated to seasonal jobs. Not everything is black: of course we are going to face a strong crisis and we must do everything to combat its social impact and the destruction of jobs; But this morning, there were 547,000 job vacancies on Pôle Emploi,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u50	And how many unemployed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u51	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...and we have to believe in our ability to undertake, bounce and transform our economy. We will increase the means of employment, because we must all mobilize to get as far as possible from this crisis which is likely to affect many of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u52	We'll have to put the means on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we still need to debate a motion for a resolution, which takes a little more than an hour; It is almost twenty-three hours ago, and we are just attacking the amendments to this text. At this rate, we may not be able to exhaust our agenda tonight – unless everyone cuts their speaking time. You will make this observation the use that you will judge right...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u54	Keep it concise, to the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u55	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u56	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u57	The proposals we made, Gabriel Serville said, are not to be taken or left behind; This debate is necessary and I think it is appropriate for it to start with parliamentary initiatives. We want to put social actors at the centre of the game – this is the subject of one of the articles in the text. The time has come for social invention, and we parliamentarians have a responsibility in this matter. The bill is the result of our fear of a severe social crisis and its human consequences. Of course, Madam Minister, it is not a question of finding a solution to the destruction of jobs. It is necessary to fight for an economy adapted to real needs, able to cope. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible in the area of prevention. What we are in the process of living must not delay the necessary ecological transition, which must, on the contrary, be accelerated. The two challenges, social and ecological, seem to us to be connected, and this is how the bill goes. This requires investment and human resources. Technology and investment are necessary, but they will not be enough to save us: we must seize this moment to raise the overall level of qualification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u58	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u59	One thing seems essential to us: to secure the journeys through a comprehensive social insurance scheme for employment and training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u61	In this area, the proposal we are making comes downstream of the problem, to accompany women and men in difficulty; But there is also a need for upstream social insurance. We have chosen, within this niche, to propose only part of the scheme, but it will have to be completed because the partial activity as it exists is not enough to fulfil this mission. I'll finish, to stay in the nails...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u62	You're already two and a half minutes away!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u63	[[Applause on several benches of the GDR group as well as on the benches of the LT group]] Just a word, Madam President! The Citizens' Convention for the Ecological Transition calls, in its conclusions, for "a new governance of the transition of jobs and skills at national and regional level": we are in the middle of the topic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u64	Amendments Nos 2, 1, 3 and 4 by Mr Gabriel Serville are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u65	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u66	Minister, I want to alert you to the situation of automotive equipment manufacturers. You have announced a major assistance plan for the automotive sector, which encourages, among other things, the transition to electric and hybrid vehicles. As part of a visit to A2Mac1, a company in my constituency that is benchmarking automotive equipment, I was able to observe two disassembled vehicles: a thermal vehicle and an electric vehicle. The difference is very important: in the electric vehicle, many parts – foundry parts, motor attachments, etc. – have disappeared; It is a real upheaval in manufacturing processes and even parts to be manufactured, which will have a strong impact on the territories and on the entire automotive equipment industry. I'm very worried about them. In 2009, the Picardie region had created a system called "training rather than unemployed" to allow employees of these companies to reclassify and learn new manufacturing processes. I don't know what you're going to do or what arrangements you're going to make, but we need to act as upstream as possible because these car manufacturers are at real risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u67	Amendment No 5 by Mr Gabriel Serville is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u68	Mr Gabriel Serville's Amendment No 6 is in coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u69	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill. As all the articles have been rejected, the bill is also rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u70	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u71	The next item is the debate on Mr Fabien Roussel's motion for a resolution to make access to masks free of charge (point 2983).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u72	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u73	Let us wish for this motion for a resolution, the same unanimous approval received by my colleague André Chassaigne at the beginning of the day,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u74	Nice ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u75	...because the subject calls for more unanimity than confrontation. For the past few days, life has regained its rights. Gradually, we're back on the road to work, school, shops. We find the pleasure of seeing friends, going to the restaurant, doing sports. Yes, life resumes its course, and one must of course appreciate all the flavor of it. This life, however, remains under surveillance. The virus we've been fighting for three months is still there. In fact, how could we forget it, even for a moment, so much the ravages it caused remember us every day? I am thinking of the 29575 deaths, victims to date of the pandemic, and of all those who have suffered in their flesh, many of whom still suffer the painful effects of the disease. They have been admirably cared for by caregivers, who should not be forgotten. I am also thinking of all those who lose their jobs, find themselves in precarious conditions, are forced to put their activity to sleep or, unfortunately too often, to put an end to it. The damage is considerable, and it's not over. Nor are we drawn from a health issue. Any premature release could even revive the epidemic, as we can see at this very moment in Beijing where we have just closed all schools. The Scientific Council has also stressed this in its recent opinions. On 2 June, he noted that "the low level of circulation of the virus [should] be used to prepare the various structures of the State for a possible resumption of the epidemic, whatever its form". And to add that "anticipation is [...] a major asset to avoid the appearance of a second wave, as massive as that experienced at the beginning of 2020". Anticipation is essential for our public hospitals, weakened by two decades of budgetary restrictions, weakened by the removal of some 100,000 beds, including in resuscitation. Anticipating also means preventing and preventing the return of the virus. Today, we all agree that wearing the mask is recognized as the most effective barrier gesture. The High Council for Public Health has even recommended that it be made mandatory, at least in institutions receiving the public. Here, the Prime Minister was translating this recommendation into action, at the end of April, by imposing the wearing of the mask on public transport, under penalty of a fine of 135 euros. The obligation remains to date. The utility of masks is no longer in doubt for anyone. Mandatory for teachers, it will be from Monday for college students, high school students and students. The wearing of the mask is also imposed in many companies, in public services, at the entrance of many shops, in banks, post offices, hairdressers, taxis, i.e. in countless places of everyday life. The result of all these recommendations: after a mask hunt, launched on a background of black market and exorbitant prices, the situation gradually regulated with the arrival of masks made in France fabric and massive imports. At present, the problem is no longer supply, but the cost it can cost many families, young people, students and pensioners. A box of fifty single-use surgical masks is sold between 40 and 50 euros in a pharmacy. Since the mask has to be renewed every four hours, it takes two times a day. For a month, it will take more than one box, which is more than 50 euros per person. For a family of four, the cost can therefore amount to more than 200 euros. This is not fictional: in some colleges, the rectorates have already announced to the parents of students that two masks of this type would have to be provided for one day of class. There are also washable textile masks. The minister told us last week that they are cheap to use, but on average they need five per month, and they need to be renewed every month. The French therefore have the choice between a surgical mask at 95 cents of euros, knowing that it takes at least two a day, or a cloth mask: here are two, one cost 3 euros and the other 5. Their lifespan is about a week. In any case, the minimum cost is 1 to 2 euros per day per person. For one person, the daily expense is at least the price of a good bread baguette. For a family of four, this is the price of a canteen ticket for a school child. That's the reality. This is a far from negligible expenditure when poverty affects more than 10 million people in our country, when students have to apply for food aid from the French People's Relief, when pensioners appeal to the Restos du coeur or the Catholic Relief. The Government tells us that these people who are most in difficulty can visit the communal centres for social action – CCIS – of the town halls. You are sending part of our population back to town halls as we talk about medical equipment to fight the pandemic. It's as if the same people had to pick up their drugs from the CASCs because they would no longer be reimbursed. The wearing of the mask for all is a matter of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u76	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u77	Its cost cannot be borne by town halls, CCAAs, regions or departments which have already spent a great deal of money in this area. This is why access to protective masks to the whole population, which could be assimilated to a basic medicine, such as Doliprane, must be able to be taken care of by social security. It would cost him a lot, you will tell me: certainly 200 to 300 million euros a month. But how many savings and lives are saved if we avoid the return of the virus and new hospitalizations? This is the subject of this motion for a resolution by the Communist Members and the GDR Group, who call on you, on the one hand, to set up a system for the distribution of masks in the national network of pharmacies, coordinated by health insurance, and, on the other hand, to make free access to masks by means of full health insurance. Once a month, each social insured person could obtain his/her batch of masks in fabric or paper by presenting his/her Vitale card in a pharmacy, for the duration of this health crisis. Moreover, such a decision would make it possible to distribute the masks produced in France as a matter of priority. Thanks to the companies that responded to the call, the domestic textile industry produces nearly 10 million masks per week. The Government, communities, hospitals and La Poste continue to purchase masks from China or Vietnam.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u78	[[Smile]] They're communists, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u79	They are comrades, but we could still buy French masks. Let's go! This is the opportunity, through a national social security order, to first buy masks produced in France. It's good for the economy, employment and the planet. Currently, 40 million masks made in France do not find takers. Many French companies complain that the state, communities and hospitals do not buy masks produced in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u80	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u81	That is why this motion for a resolution has a dual ambition: to answer a question of public health; organize the purchase of masks from French companies in order to support our textile industry and employees who gave a lot during the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, it is a motion for a resolution that invites the Government to work in that direction, not a bill to be engraved in the marble. Let us send this signal, this recommendation to the Government, while hoping that the epidemic will not return.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u82	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u83	Since the beginning of the crisis of the covid -19, France has learned to live with new gestures that we thought were impossible until then: to give up handshakes and kisses, to stay away from each other and, above all, to wear a mask in a large number of movements. Remember that there are three main categories of masks: FFP2 and surgical masks, mainly reserved for nursing staff; the so-called general public masks, usually washable and reusable up to thirty times. Before I address the point that concerns us, I would like to go back to the management of masks during the epidemic that we are going through and that I hope will soon be behind us. The Government has always advocated transparency on the stock of masks that we had: it was insufficient. No, we didn't have enough masks, like almost every country on the planet. No one, not even the greatest epidemiologists or commentators in public life, could anticipate the magnitude and gravity of the situation. The choice, therefore, was to give access to surgical masks and FFP2 as a priority to those who were on the front line: caregivers. At the time of the decoupling, a more open policy was put in place, at a time when general public masks were appearing on the market. It makes sense: people leaving more, the risk of contamination should not increase. It is about protecting our fellow citizens as much as possible to avoid a second epidemic wave. In this distribution of masks to as many people as possible, the whole nation has been at the rendezvous, from the state to the citizen. The State has taken its part in establishing an unprecedented distribution chain of free masks for first-line caregivers and people in health and medical-social settings. I can give you an example of a home help structure that, no later than last week, could no longer afford to buy masks to protect its staff. New Aquitaine's regional health agency – ARS – provided him with 12,000 free masks, without problems. It is true that, since the beginning of the crisis, the economic situation of many of our fellow citizens, especially those who were already fragile, has deteriorated. The State also helped them by distributing 5 million free masks. Through social security, all contagious people and chronic patients also benefited from free masks on prescription from their doctor. Local authorities have not been left behind since town halls and departments have organized free distributions throughout the country. The cost of this distribution has been borne by the State at 50 per cent. At work, the distribution of masks is also free of charge, since employers must make every effort to enable their employees to work under secure health conditions. In transport, where the mask is mandatory, a free distribution is also provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u84	I forgot, there's never been a shortage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u85	For example, RATP provides a free washable mask at each metro station upon presentation of the Navigo map.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u86	So no one buys masks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u87	Far from my idea of making you a list at the Prévert of all the actions undertaken, but a large part of the French have had, and still have, by various means, free masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u88	What a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u89	Social security coverage of masks for the French population as a whole would therefore not be efficient. The national solidarity that characterizes us, the French, has been expressed for many weeks. Everyone took their part, and the State first, in an attempt to meet the needs of the French and especially the most fragile. At the end of the day, when solidarity is exercised in this way, the whole nation rises. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the working Republic Group will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u90	So you're against free masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u91	Come on, it's free!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u92	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u93	Of course! We'll tell the pharmacists...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u94	We'll tell Vietnam, Mr. Roussel, our common friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u95	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u96	We are today called upon to take a decision on a motion for a resolution to make free access to masks. The wearing of the mask is a necessity for reasons of public health; It's a fact. That was why the Government had made it compulsory in certain situations, particularly in public transport. I would like to join you on another point: the difficulties of supply and the increased needs have led to an increase in mask prices, which is undoubtedly a burden for our most modest citizens. It is clear from this that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans included in their parliamentary niche last week the bill of our colleague Eric Straumann, which provided for a VAT exemption on masks, but also on hydro-alcoholic gel, in order to make them more accessible. Regrettably, we have faced the refusal of the majority on the grounds that everything was already going well and that any change in the decisions taken by the Government and its majority was futile and unnecessary. It is true that initiatives have been taken – price caps by the Government, purchases by the State – but, with regard to the management of masks, most of them have emanated from the ground, thanks in particular to the unwavering mobilization of the territorial authorities, which still today distribute free masks to those in need. I would also like to point out that the first reduction in VAT on masks was decided at the initiative of parliamentarians, when the second amending finance bill was examined. Members of the GDR Group consider that the initiatives that have been taken are not sufficient to alleviate the cost to the French of daily equipment in masks. Such a position is not surprising. In order to put an end to the war on masks, fight against the black market, allow the equipment of the population and promote national production, the Communist deputies propose to take over 100% of the masks by health insurance. However, this solution, as attractive as it may seem, faces a major challenge: reality, and in particular the reality of social security accounts. Indeed, social security deficits have exploded, victims of a devastating scissors effect, with the health crisis on the one hand, which increases expenditure, and the economic crisis on the other, which reduces revenue. To dig them further would inexorably weaken social security. In the long run, we would risk that benefits would be reduced due to a lack of sufficient revenue. In addition, a reminder of the basic functioning of social security is necessary: it is financed by contributions paid by the French. Freedom never exists: in the end, it is always the taxpayer who pays. It is therefore a little presumptuous to speak of gratuitousness, ladies and gentlemen. For these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against this motion for a resolution. Mr Roussel referred earlier to French companies producing masks. Many of them still have large stocks. I would like to draw your attention to their situation, Minister. Companies that have organized themselves to produce masks must be supported and their stocks distributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u97	He's right about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u98	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u99	The motion for a resolution before us this evening is aimed at encouraging the Government to decide on the reimbursement of covid -19 protective masks by health insurance. The issue of masks will have been one of the main markers of the health crisis that we have just experienced, for many reasons, addressed repeatedly in our assembly, on the occasion of questions to the Government, weeks of monitoring and, more recently, at the hearings of the commission of inquiry on the management of the covid epidemic -19. The principle of providing free masks to the most vulnerable populations financially and socially is common sense. This is already the case in the local relays of the State, whether they are social organizations, local authorities or associations working with vulnerable populations. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is also taking advantage of this forum to express its deep gratitude to the social workers and the volunteers and employees of the associations, who have never ceased to carry out the mission of aid and solidarity that honours them, as well as the local elected representatives throughout the country. The motion for a resolution goes further as it refers to a mechanism for taking over social security. The idea may seem fair and attractive, but it is not the most flexible and effective way to provide masks for the entire population. In order to achieve the desired result, it would be necessary to include a complex system in the Social Security Financing Act and to coordinate regulatory processes. While the objective is commendable, the means proposed here to achieve this do not seem appropriate. It would be much more practical for the state, with the stock it has built up in recent months, to establish supply protocols with the actors on the ground to allow each of our fellow citizens to obtain masks. These mechanisms are already in place. It would probably be more appropriate to dart them and extend them to the entire territory in order to gain speed and efficiency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u100	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u101	All right, he's on all fronts today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u102	I will not go back to the problem of stock management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u103	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u104	It went through a lot of ink, but the commission of inquiry on the covid-19 began its work and the truth began to burst out in the open. It would appear that responsibilities are not those that were believed and that they move towards the majority. We will only have to wait a little longer to find out more. On the use of masks, there have been many contradictions since the beginning of the pandemic. They have sometimes turned into ridiculous, something we can only regret. Who could really believe that a mask didn't have at least minimal utility? As far as manufacturing is concerned, I thank the communities, whatever their size, for their action throughout the health crisis. The regions have invested heavily in providing masks to the population, as have the municipalities, which have distributed a large number of masks. For my part, I had the chance to animate a network of seamstresses who made masks from fabrics and kits supplied by former textile manufacturers, under the leadership of insertion sites. We have witnessed a great mobilization. A France that was happy to see! Many companies have also mobilized. Our colleague pointed out earlier: we have a duty to accompany them because they have sometimes given up markets to produce masks; Today, we must stand in solidarity with them. With regard to the price of masks, the first measure taken was to cap it, but at a slightly high rate for individuals. A margin check would have been preferable to me personally. The ceiling price decreases the margin of resellers, who are therefore tempted to target foreign markets in order to maintain their margin. Margin control would probably have given rise to different behaviour: the higher the price, the greater the profit, which leads to a preference for the French market. As for the reduction in VAT on the masks, I found it unnecessary. It was claimed, but it did not have much effect on the price. It consolidated the resellers' margin and prices did not fall. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Today, wearing the mask is mandatory in transport and, in general, strongly recommended. Because the safety of our fellow citizens is at stake, the State has a duty to take over this equipment. We all see it in our territories, the most precarious families sometimes cannot change masks several times a day. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will support the proposal of our comrades in the GDR Group to ensure that they are free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u105	They're socialists we've worked well with! Good comrades!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u106	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u107	The motion for a resolution before us this evening gives us the opportunity to come back to a subject which deserves attention: that of protective masks. The first question concerns the shortage of respiratory protection masks FFP2 and the supply difficulties encountered in our hospitals, in our EHPADs but also in the city: at the height of the epidemic crisis, health care workers had to face no mask, no hydro-alcoholic gel and no possibility of testing. This topic has occupied our discussions since the beginning of the crisis and has been a major source of concern for the French, also subject to contradictory injunctions from the Government which, after calling the wearing of the mask as useless for the general public, has progressively made it mandatory in certain circumstances. While it was legitimate to direct the available masks as best possible in order to avoid the most urgent, it was clear, however, that the initial announcements were also used to mask the shortage. It has also increased the drop-out of certain types of care, including long-term and psychiatric conditions, for which regular follow-up is necessary. She has seriously disrupted the lives of residents of EHPAD and dependent people at home, as well as those who help them on a daily basis. Everything I have just mentioned is part of the agenda of the committees of inquiry established in the Assembly and the Senate. These will shed light on the chains of responsibility that have led our country to face a crisis of unprecedented gravity without protective masks. It is likely that we will need a thorough review of our organization in times of crisis and our strategic and health monitoring system. This first question therefore refers to the time after, when the crisis is behind us. The second question raised by this motion for a resolution concerns access to masks for the general public. It is doubly legitimate. On the one hand, a second wave in the summer and autumn is still possible – the current signals are certainly positive in France, the number of patients hospitalized constantly decreasing, but other countries, such as China, are experiencing an increase in cases in areas still circumscribed at this time, which must obviously prompt us to remain cautious. On the other hand, we are now fully engaged in deconfinination, which makes masks all the more necessary, their availability becoming a daily concern. They are now compulsory in public transport but also in shops and in the workplace. The necessary adaptation of workplaces, with the introduction of specific protections and barrier actions, represents an additional burden for employers while our economy is already suffocated by more than two months of containment. Questioning the free distribution of masks by health insurance is therefore legitimate for health and also social reasons. It is obvious that this represents a significant investment for the most modest households, those which are at around 10 euros at the end of the month. Our group therefore understands the reasons for your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, by diverging only on the proposed scope: to impose on health insurance the free masks for all social insurance providers would not be bearable for social accounts, knowing that their deficit for the year 2020 should already be around 52 billion euros, billions of which our children will have to bear the burden. We consider that it would be preferable to reserve the benefit of free masks for the most vulnerable people, those for whom every euro counts: I am thinking in particular of the beneficiaries of universal disease protection – PUMA – and of people with long-term affection under conditions of resources. The IDU and independent group will therefore abstain; It welcomes the generosity of this motion for a resolution, but seems to it to be poorly targeted and somewhat late.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u108	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u109	Although we have entered a new stage of deconfination, a sign of a lull in the evolution of the pandemic, we must not, of course, lower our guard. Barrier gestures, as well as the regular use of hydro-alcoholic gel and masking, are good practices that must be kept in mind. However, it is still necessary for everyone to be able to obtain adequate health protection equipment. But past weeks have shown the extreme difficulty for our caregivers, as well as for the whole chain of care and care of the most vulnerable people, in obtaining sufficient protective equipment. For our fellow citizens, it was difficult, sometimes even impossible, to obtain a mask in order to protect themselves in contact with others. In response to the growing concern among the population, the Government initially responded by minimizing the utility of a widespread wearing of the mask. Was it a way to hide the shortage of FFP2 and surgical masks? We'll know it at some point, when the balance sheet time comes. Fortunately, the territories were up to the situation. For example, in my department of Mayenne, 300,000 washable and reusable tissue masks were distributed as early as May, in coordination with municipal teams in each municipality, whose effectiveness and responsiveness should be commended. Today, supply seems secure at the national level... but we have moved from shortage to overproduction! It is indicative of the unstructured, even improvised and chaotic management of our supply of masks. Beyond that, there is the question of the financial accessibility of protective equipment. We in the Liberties and Territories Group were mobilised with others to reduce VAT on sales of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels to 5.5%. This motion for a resolution goes further...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u111	... by calling on the Government to make protective masks available to the entire population through the establishment of a distribution system coordinated by health insurance with the national pharmacy network and 100 per cent coverage. That request is legitimate. Indeed, despite an effective price framework and a reduction in VAT, the purchase of masks still represents a significant cost to French households. But it seems to us that these expenses can be met by most of them. On the other hand, a full refund of the purchase of masks would have the disadvantage of having a significant impact on public accounts and, eventually, on the taxes or social contributions of the French. On the other hand, our group believes that the question of the free use of these basic necessities is more acute for the most vulnerable households at a time when the use of partial activity leads to a reduction in income and household spending is increasing. The local and regional authorities have, as I said, provided a first response to this social emergency by distributing masks free of charge and massively to their inhabitants. But this weighs heavily on their already constrained budget, as they are likely to total up to 4.9 billion revenue losses as a result of the covid-19 crisis. They therefore need more financial support from the State. It must be said, Mr Secretary of State, that the Government's response is not up to the challenges of public health. For example, he announced that the cost of masks ordered by the communal and intercommunal centres in charge of the distribution of masks to the beneficiaries of universal health coverage – CMU – and C2S – the complementary health solidarity – would be compensated only by 50% and that this would only concern those ordered from 13 April to 1 June. This announcement is completely disconnected from the reality of the situation, since they have been very reactive to replace, thank God, the shortcomings of the State. That is why our group wants the device to be extended to all mask commands, regardless of the date. We also call for a revision of the reference price, which is now well below market prices. Even if we understand the spirit of this GDR motion for a resolution, we believe that free masks would not be the most effective solution or the most just solution to ensure a mask for all. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group will abstain in the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u112	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u113	[[Smile]] I'll be short, since Mr. Dharréville asked me so nicely and he thanked me for it. The monthly budget for the purchase of masks amounts to €36 to €114 according to 60 million consumers. Knowing that families in France don't eat three meals a day for lack of money, how do you want them to get masks? I hear a lot about communities, but it's still a little loud to always ask those whose pockets are always empty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u115	The Communist Group's motion for a resolution is a proposal of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u116	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Wearing a mask protects you but also protects others. It is a matter of public health, as Mr Fabien Roussel rightly said. Their free is of common sense to protect the health of all. To be able to protect oneself and others must not be a cost: it is a due, which must be taken over by the State because health, let us never forget, is a common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u118	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u119	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u120	For several weeks now, wearing the mask has become mandatory in a number of places, whether public or private. Thanks to this binding measure, but also through active communication on the need to wear it to protect oneself and others, the mask has become an essential product of everyday life. It has a cost and, for some people, especially those in a precarious financial situation, it can represent an additional burden that is difficult to bear. This was especially the case at the beginning of the crisis, when exorbitant prices were practised by resellers who had as their sole objective only to achieve maximum profits. I therefore understand your request, Mr Roussel, for 100% reimbursement of masks by social security; They would thus be taken over by the State. However, the Group of the European People's Party does not agree with this motion for a resolution. Considerable efforts have been made to make masks accessible to all and significant steps have been taken to help the poorest. Thus, the Government immediately heard the warnings about the price of surgical masks by capping the unit at 95 cents of euro, regardless of the distribution network, until 10 July 2020. As a result of competition, prices have fallen by more than 30%, with the average price now being 65 cents of euro. The price of reusable masks has also fallen. And in the second amending finance bill of the year 2020, the Government made an additional gesture by lowering the VAT rate on masks from 20 per cent to 5.5 per cent, that is, that applied to basic necessities. In addition, local authorities have played an active role in the transport and distribution of masks, many of which have made free distributions in their territories. In this regard, it should be recalled that the State has taken the decision to take over 50 per cent of the price of masks ordered from 13 April. Finally, it should also be recalled that a very large number of companies have distributed masks to equip their employees, whether private or public. The State also replied on the support of the poorest. Many devices provide financial support to the most fragile, which is able to equip themselves with all the necessary health protections during this difficult period. An aid of EUR 150 has been created, plus an additional EUR 100 per dependent child for households receiving the RSA or the specific solidarity allowance. Similarly, all families receiving individualised housing assistance who do not receive the RSA or the SSA received a payment of EUR 100 per dependent child. Since May, nearly 4 million households have benefited from this exceptional aid, still in a spirit of solidarity. In addition, students and young people in precarious situations were also able to count on the State, which provided €200 in aid, paid at the beginning of June, for those under 25 years of age who are in a critical financial situation as a result of the health crisis. Finally, I could recall all the flagship measures to support employment, in particular the partial unemployment which has kept a large number of employees in a precarious financial situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If, in substance, your intention is of course commendable and we share it, taking over 100% of the purchase of masks by social security would further undermine its financial situation, which is already particularly affected by the measures I have just mentioned. State finances are unfortunately not a bottomless well and it is our parliamentary responsibility not to aggravate their imbalance. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u121	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u122	Hurry, we have to vote before midnight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u123	[[Smile]] A simple "yes" will suffice for us, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u124	The subject we are addressing tonight is of paramount importance...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u125	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u126	... because it concerns not only the health and health safety of our citizens but also equality in front of an instrument of protection which, since the health crisis that we are going through, has moved from the rank of curiosity to that of a common and everyday accessory. You have not failed to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that the world's production of masks has been energized in recent weeks as never before. This situation has sometimes led to competition, and sometimes unacceptable abuses, which I regret as you all do. But we must believe that kindness and solidarity unfortunately do not govern the world and that there will always be vile profitors and Thénardier to unravel Waterloo's dead. Saying this invites us to anthropological lucidity; But the latter does not make a programme, and it is indeed urgent to take action. The Government shares your ambition to see the rebirth of strategic production at the national or European level: this is one of the crucial challenges of the period we are experiencing, beyond the question of masks and protections alone. It is also a challenge for our health sovereignty. Last Sunday, the President of the Republic strongly recalled the course for the next decade: that of our independence, to live happily and live better. In order to regain our independence, we will have to relocate certain sectors, including the production of masks. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome, as some of you have done, the industrialists who have mobilized throughout the crisis, as well as the action of Secretary of State Agnès Pannier-Runacher in this area. The French textile industry has adapted its production and workshops to a speed that forces everyone's admiration. I believe, Mr Ramadier, that exporting can be an opportunity for these French companies that have shown their expertise. France is one of the only countries to have so close to the individual protections it produces, which can therefore be used in many other countries. I should also like to remind you that the Government has ensured that masks are free of charge for certain priority audiences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u127	For some...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u128	Health masks from the state stock are distributed free of charge to health professionals and, on medical prescription, to patients with covid-19 and to persons with a very high medical risk. General public masks are distributed free of charge to students, in accordance with the decision of Jean-Michel Blanquer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u129	Thanks to the communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u130	Finally, as you know, 5 million masks per week are made available free of charge to people in precarious situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u131	For 10 million people involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u132	If abuses were detected at the beginning of the epidemic, the price of surgical masks has been capped, and we are very careful to ensure that this cap is respected. Controls will be strengthened and exemplary sanctions will be imposed whenever abuses are detected. The Government is determined to give our health care system historical means, for ambitions that are no less so. I could refer to the recognition of caregivers, their careers, their salaries, which you know are at the heart of the discussions that are currently taking place within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. I could mention the reform of old age and autonomy and the creation of a fifth branch of social security: this reform, of which so many governments have spoken and dreamed, will soon be discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u133	When exactly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u134	The bill will be presented to the Council of Ministers by the end of the year, as you would have heard from my own mouth last Tuesday, in questions to the Government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u135	We don't know the date!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u136	...if you'd been careful, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u137	I was at the demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u138	I could also refer to the choices that have been made in recent weeks. They were not simple – it's a litter – and they had the consequences we know about our economy. A crisis like the one we are going through is a test of truth, which forces us to make choices and decide what values we place at the heart of our social pact. Among these values, solidarity and health have come first: the health of our fellow citizens and solidarity for everyone to be protected are the fundamental values of our nation chosen by the Government in recent weeks. If there are decisions that cost, there are also issues that don't have a price. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM group]] So if we do not plan for free masks for all, we guarantee access to free masks for the most vulnerable audiences and ensure that masks are accessible to all those who wish. In short, we ensure that every Frenchman can protect himself in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u139	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1242.u140	Next meeting, Monday, 22 June, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling for France to be one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts; Discussion of the proposed law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence. The meeting is adjourned.
