ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u1	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the draft law cancelling the second round of the general renewal of municipal and community councillors, Paris councillors and councillors of the Lyon metropolis of 2020, the organisation of a new vote in the municipalities concerned, the transitional operation of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation and the postponement of consular elections (No. 3021, 3043).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u3	The covid-19 epidemic has upset our lives and those of our fellow citizens. It has shaken our usages and priorities. It has also shaken our democratic life, especially our local democratic life. The municipalities, everyone here knows, it is proximity, it is daily life, it is the school, it is the project at the corner of the street or the one that will transform the city in depth. It is also the economy, the building, the culture, the sport, the proximity. The commune is at last the first contact of citizens but also of the state. The weeks that have just passed and the gradual deconfinition show this: the prefect-maire binôme, this joint state-state binôme, has been and remains one of the keys to the success of our strategy, a force for the implementation of the decisions that we have taken. On 15 March, 30143 communes elected a municipal council. In these cities, the new elected representatives were able to take office, elect the mayor and set up the executive. I welcome these new elected officials, who certainly did not think that the beginning of their term of office would take place under such conditions. I also greet the elected officials of 2014, whose term of office was extended for two months and who faced with courage and determination the health crisis, even though in some cases they had not wished to represent themselves and in some cases despite difficult political situations. Yet they have faced with the will, which honours these elected officials, regardless of their label or lack of label, to serve as best they can. However, 16.5 million French in 4855 communes, sectors or boroughs are still awaiting the election of a mayor and a full municipal council. In these communes, the organisation of a second ballot is necessary since in our Republic, the communities, first and foremost of which the communes, freely administer themselves through elected councils. In the face of the pandemic, we had to set a clear framework. You did so by the law of 23 March 2020 emergency to deal with the epidemic of covid -19, providing for two situations: either it was possible to vote in June and, in this case, a second round could be organised; the health situation did not allow a campaign and an election to be held in June, and the entire voting process, first and second rounds, was to be repeated in the municipalities concerned. In order to inform the Government of this choice, the law provides for the consultation of the scientific committee – commonly referred to as the scientific council. He delivered his opinion on 18 May. On its basis, and after consultation with elected associations as political groups, the Prime Minister announced that the second round of balloting would take place on 28 June. Last week I presented two decrees in the Council of Ministers to summon the electors concerned to this second round of voting. It is a decision that we must take with caution and responsibility. We will therefore accompany this decision with a number of requirements aimed at ensuring compliance with barrier actions during the campaign as well as during voting operations. We have also given it a strong guarantee: that of reversibility, a principle that has presided over all the decisions taken since the beginning of the crisis: each time the possibility has remained open to change them according to the health situation and on the basis of the available scientific data. If, in the coming days, the scientific council felt that the health conditions were no longer in place to allow the campaign and the vote, we could postpone this second round. The Scientific Council will deliver its first opinion on 8 June. The Government requested a second opinion, which will be delivered on 14 June. These two opinions will of course be communicated to the Speaker of the Assembly and to the Speaker of the Senate. We must prepare for this postponement option, and that is the very meaning of this bill, but I stress that it is only an option, as the Government's willingness is to organize the second round on 28 June and the voters are properly summoned for that date. It is only on the assumption, which is not the one we are considering when I speak to you, when the epidemic situation worsens, that we could suspend the electoral process. The first objective of this text is therefore to allow the cancellation of the second round of 28 June, the cancellation of the results of the first round in the municipalities concerned and the postponement of the holding of a first and a second round by January 2021 at the latest. I would point out that in the communes of less than 1000 inhabitants, where some municipal councillors have already been elected, the two ballots would be restricted to the vacant seats. Of course, if the Scientific Council confirms that the election can be held on the scheduled date, these provisions will not be helpful. But foretelling them prevents us, if the health situation deteriorates, from having to reunite Parliament as a matter of urgency. Furthermore, in the event that the localized health situation is such that in one or more communes, in a limited number, the election cannot be held, I will propose an amendment by the Government not to hold the second round of the election in those communes, without cancelling the election in the rest of the national territory. We have referred in the Committee on Laws to the possibility of consolidating, through this complementary security, a case law which has already prevailed in the past. I would like to stress that it is a matter of securing all the communal elections on 28 June. The second objective of this text is to enable local life to continue in the 4855 communes concerned, whose functioning cannot depend on the holding of the election. Thus, in the event of a postponement of the vote, this law provides for the extension of the term of office of the elected representatives currently in place, including in communes of less than 1000 inhabitants where a part of the municipal council has been designated. Moreover, we could not envisage a resumption of local life without ensuring the proper functioning of the intercommunities. The bill therefore provides for the meeting of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation, the EPCIs, whose deliberative assemblies will be mixed, composed of both new elected representatives and elected representatives whose term of office is extended. These EPCIs will have to have a provisional executive until the new elections are held. The third objective we pursue, regardless of a possible postponement of the second round, is to put a definitive end to the current electoral cycle by providing for the reimbursement of campaign expenses incurred by the lists for the elections of 15 and 22 March and 28 June. I would add that if the June 28 election were cancelled, we should postpone the senatorial elections scheduled for September. Again, we have prepared for this eventuality and last week I introduced an organic bill in Council of Ministers to deal with it. If everything goes well, 16.5 million French will be able to go to the polls on 28 June. Just as this bill is intended to anticipate, we are also preparing for this month of campaigning and voting in a particular context and in accordance with the recommendations of the Scientific Council. We are currently preparing, through decrees and circulars, provisions to facilitate the dematerialized hosting of faith professions, to make it possible to post a second election poster or to cover the costs of printing by the State. As far as voting is concerned, we are also preparing to facilitate the collection of power of attorneys, to request a specific and adapted organization of polling stations and to cover the cost of all the equipment that will be required to protect voters, members of polling stations and deputy returning officers. Complementary initiatives have been proposed, particularly from the work of the Law Commission. The Government is not closed to their consideration and this discussion will allow us to conclude the discussions in committee. The bill has two components: while it allows us to prepare for all scenarios regarding municipal elections, it also organizes the postponement of consular elections. These should have been held on 16 and 17 May; the law of 23 March postponed the elections to June and extended the term of office of the current consular elected officials. Again, as in the case of municipal elections, we have relied on the advice of the scientific council and its observation is without appeal: the advance of the epidemic, all over the world, and the decisions taken by the states to respond to it do not allow the holding of a vote. That is why the text aims to postpone the consular elections by one year and set the date for May 2021. This will allow us to have a little setback on the global evolution of the pandemic, without however delaying the deadline for the consular elections of 2026. It is therefore a necessary postponement and we propose a timetable accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, we find in this text some of the very reason for our political commitment: to anticipate, to anticipate, to adapt. In preparing for the possible - and I insist on this - postponement of municipal elections in 4855 communes, we act responsibly. By supplementing it with the provisions that I will propose to you earlier, taking into account also your proposals, we will be able to cope with localized epidemics, without having to postpone the entire electoral process. We thus show our fellow citizens that we are preparing to face all the scenarios, all the eventualities. We act in conscience because we allow local life to continue wherever a possible postponement of the elections could have led to its suspension. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Responsibility, conscience: that is the very meaning of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u4	They're still a few to slam! Will you also applaud the two subgroups of the majority?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u5	Don't start...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u6	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u7	We are going to look at a text which at least part of it had, in its original form, a somewhat virtual dimension: it was a question of providing for the possibility of cancelling municipal elections if the health circumstances required it. Its second part, in a certain way, envisages the postponement of the consular elections of the French abroad. This text therefore has a precautionary aim which makes it all the more necessary in the period we are going through and which requires us to show humility in the face of events. Our debates in committee allowed us to first assess the extent to which the decision to organise the second round of municipal elections on 28 June had been weighed and matured by all political groups. It is in a responsible and collective manner that we have referred to the need for this decision, in a particularly constrained context and with all the reservations related to the development of the health situation in the coming weeks. This is not an easy or obvious decision and everyone has been heard on this point, whether it is favourable or reserved. But it is a decision that is in line with all the decisions that have been necessary so far, first to respond to the crisis peak and then to consider the way out of this crisis. I believe that our fellow citizens expect a clear and transparent decision on the modalities of the second phase of deconfination. By our debates and by our votes we can contribute to this. As such, Minister, the commission wished to recall, in section 1A, that the second round of municipal elections will take place on 28 June and that the provisions of this bill providing for the holding of a new election in January 2021 will only apply if the health situation worsens sharply in the coming days. It seems to me that the bill is becoming more coherent and thus contributes to the understanding by our fellow citizens of the various assumptions envisaged to close this election. I would add that this wording will allow this precautionary law to remain operational in any case. Indeed, we are at a particular moment in the fight against the epidemic, since we must both resume the course of our social, cultural and economic activities, and continue to be cautious in respecting the gestures of barriers and the physical distances. This particularly sensitive period nourishes many questions and expectations on the part of our fellow citizens, but also of the elected representatives who have been heavily involved in the management of the crisis. Some voters may be reluctant to go to their polling stations, despite all the precautions that will be taken to ensure their safety. That is why, in Article 1a, we have provided for the possibility for a single agent to receive two power of attorneys. For example, the agent will be able to vote for his or her two elderly parents, thus avoiding them from travelling and taking risks. This provision was already envisaged by the Senate, in somewhat different ways, and I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the work done in this area by the Chairman of the Law Committee of the High Assembly, Philippe Bas, as well as by Bruno Retailleau and Hervé Marseille. However, since the bill introduced by the Senate was not subject to an expedited review procedure, it was necessary to incorporate this additional flexibility into this text, if we wanted it to apply to the June 28 ballot. The committee has thus clarified the organisation of the vote and improved the voting conditions to encourage participation as much as possible. The results of the first round have shown this: despite the effects of the health crisis, the French are particularly attached to this election, which affects their daily lives, allows them to appoint local elected representatives and to address concrete issues related to their living environment. It seems to me essential to close these elections in the best possible conditions and within a reasonable time, especially since the local executives are led to make important decisions in the context of the deconfination. It is essential that the machine is restarted and that the public authority is back in operation. In addition to the provisions for the postponement of the second round of municipal elections, the bill provides for the postponement of the consular elections scheduled to take place on 16 and 17 May. Already postponed by the law of 23 March, article 4 refers them back to May 2021. He drew the consequences of the opinion of the Committee of Scientists that it was impossible to anticipate the development of the epidemiological situation in the world. A further postponement is therefore required. However, the committee discussed the possibility of maintaining flexibility in the bill to hold these elections before next May, if health conditions permit. Let us understand: it is not a question of anticipating as much as possible these elections – contrary to what is planned for the municipal elections – but of organising them at the best time. If all the visionaries went green, for example in January 2021, we could allow ourselves the possibility of adjusting the timetable for the election, before a possible further deterioration of the health situation. We have heard each other's positions, and I am confident that we will find the best solution in our discussions. In conclusion, I would like to send a message to the elected representatives who, either because their mandate has been extended or because they have just been appointed or renewed, are at the forefront of crisis management. The committee has repeatedly welcomed their unwavering investment, and has been vigilant about how they can respond to the expectations of our fellow citizens – as has been shown by the debates during the discussion of the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. This text contains all the measures necessary to ensure that they are reimbursed for campaign expenses and that they take up their duties under the best possible conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] Everyone will remember the municipal elections of 2020 as a difficult election, marked by a complex democratic debate. It will also be remembered that, despite the epidemic, our democracy has been good, the debate has taken place, and public action has been able to unfold despite the difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u8	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u9	As you pointed out, Minister, the health crisis has affected all parts of our life – not only our economic and social life, but also our democratic life, since the decision to confine our fellow citizens was taken the day after the first round of the 15 March municipal elections, and the second round scheduled for 22 March had to be cancelled. It is envisaged that this second round will take place on June 28, but, as a matter of caution and caution, you are now introducing a bill that could lead to a further postponement of that date, if the health conditions imposed it. The situation is special since some mayors and municipal councillors were elected in the first round on 15 March, while other councils were elected in part. Finally, in some cities, a second round must be organised in order for a municipal council to be elected and for local democratic life to resume its course. On the form, this text is quite unusual since it is written on the conditional. However, we understand your willingness to anticipate a possible cancellation of the 28 June election, and we welcome it. We wonder, however, about the chronology chosen: it would have been possible to wait for the first or even the second opinion of the Scientific Council to confirm the date of 28 June – especially since priority issues of constitutionality were submitted to the Constitutional Council, and the latter's opinion could inform us, before 28 June, on the organisation of the elections. Furthermore, and as Thierry Benoit pointed out in committee, we could make this text a legislative vehicle for measures useful for other elections – I am thinking of the way in which proxy voting has evolved, but could make it even easier for our fellow citizens not to travel. In substance, the postponement of these elections raises legal and even political questions. Since the sincerity of the vote was a constitutional principle, the second round could not be postponed to a far too distant date. If the second round could not have been considered before the summer, the question of maintaining the first round would have arisen where the results were not endorsed. Beyond the election of municipal councillors, the text deals with EPCIs. The emergency law to deal with the covid -19 epidemic certainly includes measures in this regard, but they would be quite unsatisfactory if the elections were postponed again. Would it be acceptable for presidents or vice-presidents of intercommunals who would no longer be mayors – because they have not represented themselves or have been beaten – to continue to preside over EPCI's destinies, even though new elected officials, including mayors, could not participate in the functioning of communities of communes or agglomerations which concentrate the majority of the local bloc's competences? Certainly not. The provisions laid down in the text to organise, even temporarily, the functioning of the EPCIs are therefore indispensable. Finally, the IDU and independent group is very committed to simplifying the terms of power of attorney. As elections are the foundation of our democracy, we must pay special attention to them. Our group will therefore support this text and pay particular attention to the issue of power of attorneys.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u10	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u11	While we are in a new phase of an unprecedented health crisis, we must be guided above all by common sense – common sense in the territories, which has enabled them to demonstrate agility, efficiency and responsiveness, to order masks to cope with the lack, to maintain harmony during a difficult confinement for the citizens and for the economic and social fabric; This common sense allows them to accompany the deconfinement as serenely as possible. Common sense is to anticipate, depending on the state of health of the country, a possible cancellation of the second round of municipal elections scheduled for 28 June. Such a decision would have many consequences, which it is essential to anticipate in order to better respond to them. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the initiative of this bill. The committee made a number of amendments to facilitate the use of proxy voting, including allowing the same agent to hold two power of attorneys. It would be desirable for this measure to apply to other elections, just as it should be possible to give a power of attorney to a person on a list of electors in a commune other than his or her own. This would certainly pose technical difficulties, but a thorough reflection would certainly overcome them. Other developments need to be considered in the sitting, such as the one aimed at securing the possibility of cancelling the second round of the election in a territory where a covid -19 home reportedly declared itself. Our group will support the Government's amendment to that effect. Beyond the text itself, anticipation requires us to work on the best way to vote in times of health crisis, by creating a more flexible, secure and reliable process. This includes power of attorneys, but also electronic and mail-order voting. In my personal capacity, I am not in favour of either of these last two modalities, either for the 28 June election or for the others. E-voting carries significant risks of fraud: denial of service, viruses or so-called attacks by the man of the environment to change the vote. The mail-order vote was abolished in 1975 because it presented several difficulties, including that relating to the routing circuit: it is not possible to exercise sufficiently secure and continuous surveillance of this opaque tunnel. In addition, this modality does not eliminate health risks, as it requires travel to post offices. Common sense also means acting appropriately, particularly with regard to the modalities of the electoral campaign. This will be different, given the scientific council's health recommendations. That is why our group is deeply concerned about the sincerity of the vote. The campaign was extended, which was indispensable in two ways: first because the first round took place more than three months before the second, then because the premium for exits will certainly be increased, as the teams in place managed the health crisis with increased visibility. While extending the duration of the campaign is a measure of electoral fairness, it will not be enough to make this period fully democratic. In committee and today in session, Minister, you mentioned the use of digital technology to compensate for the decrease in social and physical contacts during the campaign. It is a lure to believe that digital technology is a sufficient and appropriate technological solution: its use is not sufficiently developed during election campaigns, and voters have not sufficiently integrated it. Many people do not follow social networks and do not use the Internet to search for information about candidates and their programmes. In addition, the use of digital technology is not always possible or easy in some territories. Common sense is finally spreading information as upstream as possible. The candidates testify to their concern about the conduct of the campaign for the second round of municipal elections. That is why it is essential, Mr Minister, that you give them information quickly about the modalities of this unprecedented campaign, the possibility of holding public meetings in the green and orange areas, and, more broadly, what they will be allowed or forbidden to do. Anticipation, action, information: these three keywords will allow us to make common sense the thread of this end of electoral process. If adjustments remain necessary outside the framework of the law, the text seems to us to be moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u12	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u13	You propose that we cancel the second round of the municipal elections and postpone it by January 2021 at the latest, by setting the terms of a new two-round election if the elections could not be held on 28 June for health reasons due to the epidemic of covid -19. If you do this, it is that on 18 May, the Scientific Committee considered that it was "difficult to anticipate an uncertain situation for the coming weeks"; recommended that the epidemiological situation be taken into account within 15 days of the date of the election; He also highlighted "the significant health risks associated with the election campaign". The question before us is not just the question of the date of the election. The Council of State therefore raised a priority question of constitutionality in order to verify the constitutionality of the bill. It is indeed a matter of the sincerity of the vote: you know, like me, that an election whose two rounds are very distant cannot quite be regarded as a normal election, moreover when this distance is linked to exceptional conditions. Above all, I would like to address the issue of the electoral campaign. You know that we are opposed to the postponement of the second round until 28 June when you reject a "normal" campaign. We've heard a lot about that. It was said that it was perhaps better, because a campaign was very expensive, it consumed too much paper, it had to be content with a digital campaign, because it was modern – even though, I remind you, many of our fellow citizens are suffering from a real digital divide. On the contrary, I would like to stress the absolute need to make the most extensive campaign possible for these municipal elections. Campaigning is going to get people one after the other to try to convince them. There is nothing more difficult in politics, and there is nothing more noble – I say it as an elected candidate by the universal suffrage of a popular constituency, where victory, I can assure you, was everything but acquired: before the second round, it was necessary to fight, to do door-to-door until late in the night, to distribute leaflets... There were the handshakes, the yells too. It is an intense moment, a moment when an entire political and militant collective is deeply bound up with the idea of democracy. During these campaigns, we also measure the gap that separates us from the inhabitants: some people sometimes discovered that there was a legislative election, just as some people discover today that there is a municipal election. I think all these meetings bring people closer to democracy. An election campaign is also meetings and meetings. I heard that it was no longer necessary, that in any case we were no longer able to bring together people – perhaps it is true for some, but it is not the case for all. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that if we limit the electoral campaign too much, the election will lose its nobility and its legitimacy will be tainted. The participation rate in the first round was a terrible blow to democracy from this point of view: only 45 per cent of voters voted; This means that in a city with 10,000 voters, more than 5500 did not vote! We were all able to see during the covid-19 epidemic how important the municipal scale was for crisis management. Mayors and municipal councillors had to take exceptional measures, sometimes very difficult to take with the population. If they were able to do this job of titan, it is, I tell you, because they all had an authority that was based on a turnout in the 2014 municipal elections of more than 60%. Even though it may be regrettable that this rate drops after election, it is still an election where we still vote in numbers – albeit insufficiently, we must recognize it. You know the social difficulties of the country, you know how brutal the economic crisis that will come upon our country will be: a mayor will not be able to carry out his mission properly if he does not enjoy sufficient legitimacy. That is why I ask you, Minister, to provide us with real guarantees, solid guarantees, so that our democracy can breathe. Otherwise, the action of the future elected officials would be stifled by their lack of legitimacy if our fellow citizens did not go into isolation enough. We therefore ask that, if health conditions permit, a real campaign take place – as we already told you at your meeting with the various political groups. Today, the French can sit on the terrace and walk out freely. It is enough to walk in the morning in Paris to see that, unfortunately, for the people who work especially in the BTP, the health measures are no longer really respected. Religious services and gatherings are now allowed again. It would therefore be difficult to understand that, in the context of the electoral campaign, meetings, for example open-air meetings, cannot take place under the conditions of protection required – and from this point of view, I believe that political activists can be trusted, as we trust our fellow citizens today to respect the barriers. We also hope that the campaign material can be disseminated and posted in accordance with health regulations. In conclusion, if we obviously agree on a possible postponement of the second round in the event that the health crisis rebounds, we will abstain in the vote on the bill because we do not wish to give, in one way or another, our approval to the management of the municipal elections since March 15th – management that we believe has been bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u14	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u15	France has been in an unprecedented social, economic and health situation for several months. Since June 2nd, we have started the second phase of deconfining – but, as we understand it, exit from the crisis is not guaranteed. The haste of the organisation of this second round will not erase the memory of a first round marked by the anxiety and misunderstanding of a large part of the citizens, including among the political staff. Let us remember the resignations to the chain of presidents and assessors of the polling stations, the difficulties of organizing the first round because of the uncertainties regarding hydro-alcoholic gels and masks. Let us remember the record forbearance, the persistent doubts of the candidates. I myself, as a candidate, deeply regretted not being able to call, as we used to call, our fellow citizens at the polls. We have not dared to mobilize them to go and exercise the first of the civil rights, because we cannot measure the risk to which we exposed them. Let us finally remember the confinement that occurred two days later, which led to the postponement of the second round of municipal elections. Would wisdom have wanted us not to organize this first round? On this point, we agree with the opinion of the Scientific Council. However, should it not have been necessary for the policy to take its responsibilities upstream? The question, ladies and gentlemen, remains open. We are here today to deal with the possibility of a further postponement of the second round of municipal elections in the event that the same scientific council does not give its green light to its organisation. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group has already made its position on this point very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u16	But where does this group stand? I find it hard to understand the stability of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u17	We're expanding it, the majority, Mr. Schellenberger!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u18	Together with my colleagues, we called for a postponement after the summer of the second round in cities with more than 1000 inhabitants; The 3275 municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants could have organised the elections. We know the doubts about the sincerity of a vote that includes such a gap between the first and second rounds, but what about the sincerity of the one that we are about to organize, and that will take place again in a climate of uncertainty and doubt? Let us have in mind that less than a third of the French are in favour of holding the second round in June. If we do not agree, you will have understood that, with the decision of the Prime Minister to organise the second round on 28 June, with the decision taken, it is now our responsibility to ensure that this election takes place in the best possible conditions and with the greatest possible health security, and that the electoral campaign takes place in order to allow the contradictory debate and the confrontation of municipal projects. Democracy presupposes that each of us has the opportunity to form an informed opinion and to exercise his or her right to vote effectively. For our part, we will always be at the meeting to give all possible legitimacy to a democratic and republican act. That is why we believe it is essential to facilitate the use of power of attorneys; We support the Commission's proposal to extend to two the number of power of attorneys that can be held by the same person. We also want proxy and distance voting to receive media coverage commensurate with the challenges of the crisis we are going through. We have therefore tabled an amendment aimed at increasing, for French nationals established outside France, the number of power of attorneys that can be held by the same agent in the upcoming consular elections. Finally, we will be attentive to the Minister of the Interior's announcements regarding the organization of polling stations. If the election could not be maintained on 28 June for health reasons, we hope that the Government will return to the Assembly so that we can decide together on the date of the election. This is not provided for in the bill. On the contrary, the method employed, i.e. the conditioning of the choice of date to a report by the Scientific Council, makes it impossible to go to Parliament because of the time limits for examination. Once again, you ask us for a vote of confidence, as was already the case several times during this crisis. We no longer want to give the Government a blank-sing; We want to do our work as parliamentarians: writing the law, studying each mechanism in detail, evaluating it and guiding it. We oppose the generalization of this type of operation; It is, we repeat, a dangerous trend for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is the DNA of our Republic. It is also the heart of our group: each of its members has its own freedom to vote within the framework of a pluralism of ideas fed by debates and exchanges. Today, faced with a subject of such complexity, ten members of the EDS group will abstain, six will vote in favour and one will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u19	This group looks complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u20	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u21	The health crisis not only forced us to freeze the majority of our freedoms, such as the freedom to move or trade, but also forced us to postpone the second round of municipal elections, the quintessence of our local democracy. This decision, let us admit, seems to have made more consensus than that of maintaining the first round on March 15 – I will come back to that. The period we are going through has highlighted the extraordinary mobilization of local elected officials and their devotion to their territory; they supported their admins and trade. Their commitment, which is the pride of our decentralized model, has largely supplanted the bizarreness of the moment. Each of us can cite examples, in our constituency, of beaten mayors from the first round who have had to extend their term or mayors who are in a hurry to be advised by their opponents. This has been made possible by the Government, which has been anxious to adapt democratic life and communal management to health conditions. Some would say that it would have been easier to postpone the entire vote until September or October. The same people, certainly, would have accused the Government of a coup d'état if their wish had been fulfilled. The same today do not accept that holding the first round did not, according to a recent study, lead to a significant acceleration in the spread of the virus. The same people, tomorrow, will use the second round in June to demand permission to gather hundreds or thousands of people, while a few weeks ago they predicted a second wave following the reopening of kindergartens. Mr. Minister, you and the other members of the Government have been attacked by people who accused you of not having a crystal ball, while these same people have been constantly making false predictions throughout this crisis, for the sole purpose of destabilizing the Government. This bill is a continuation of the Government's strategy to anticipate all eventualities and act on the basis of expert advice. In concrete terms, in the event of a further acceleration of the spread of the virus detected in the 15 days preceding the second round of municipal elections, the election will be scheduled by January 2021 at the latest, which will lead, among other consequences, to the cancellation of the results of the first round in the 4855 municipalities and sectors partially or partially elected and the extension of the term of office of the outgoing elected officials in the communes and sectors in question. The text also specifies the functioning of inter-communities during the possible transitional phase, the method of reimbursement of campaign expenses incurred for the second cancelled round and provides for the postponement of senatorial elections and by-elections. He also postponed the consular elections initially scheduled for 16 and 17 May by one year, regardless of whether the second round of municipal elections was maintained on 28 June. This decision is the result of the opinion of the Scientific Council, which recalled the uncertain nature of the worldwide epidemiological spread. The role of its members is fundamental and a reflection must be carried out in order to refocus it on their primary mission. Finally, the bill, enriched in the commission of laws, reinforces democratic expression in this particular context. In concrete terms, the same person will be able to receive two electoral power of attorneys for the election on 28 June; This is the democratic translation of the scientific council's health recommendations. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and EDS groups]] Given that the bill responds to health and democratic issues and provides for mechanisms and measures to adapt to the worst, the Action Together group will be unreserved and throughout its consideration in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u22	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u23	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u24	We all agree that the mayor is close to our fellow citizens and remains the most concrete incarnation of the Republic. As a local area, the municipality is the ideal stage to encourage the involvement of citizens, the place where the community movement is asserting itself, where our citizens experience politics. That is why, by its positions, by its votes, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has always fiercely opposed the numerous texts which have gradually removed from the population the places of power and the decision-making bodies. At every stage of the legislative process, and most recently, we have consistently defended the communal level, the basic unit of democracy and local public action. Mayors and municipal elected representatives are the primary guarantors of democratic life. The first round of municipal elections, on 15 March, was maintained in spite of the health crisis and the very special conditions for holding the elections; In the vast majority of municipalities, new municipal and community councillors were elected. In the remaining municipalities, the organisation of the second round on 28 June should allow for the renewal of the elected representatives and their assumption of office as soon as possible. This bill is presented in a conservatory capacity; We see no objection, at least with regard to the method. In its opinion, "the Council of State observes that it is a good method, in the situation of uncertainty as to the evolution of the epidemic, to anticipate possible new legislative measures that should be adopted quickly in the near future". On the other hand, the form of the bill does not make it very readable. It essentially proceeds by reference: it amends the law of 23 March 2020 emergency to deal with the epidemic of covid -19, as well as four ordinances taken on the basis of it. Such a method undermines its intelligibility; Moreover, the Council of State considers that "it would have been preferable... to bring together the new rules in an autonomous text whose provisions would be sufficient for themselves". [[Mrs Paula Forteza and Messrs. M的jid ElGuerrab and Frédéric Petit applaud]] On the substance, I repeat, the municipal elections, the highlight of our democratic life, must continue. In the face of the social and economic storms that we are going to face, municipalities and, more generally, local authorities will play a leading role. These communities alone account for 55% to 60% of public investment, so without their assistance, no exit from the crisis is possible. The second round will require strict health rules, in order to reassure our citizens and prevent any risk of contamination at polling stations. We also believe that proxy voting should be widely promoted; We agree with the amendment adopted in committee which provides for the possibility of a double power of attorney for the vote on 28 June. Ultimately, for all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u25	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u26	For the UNEF sub-group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u27	I hope he's not against the text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u28	We have already dealt with many issues in committee where the minister has honoured us with his presence. The text has all the consequences – we hope these will be the last – from the postponement to 28 June of the second round of municipal elections, originally scheduled for 22 March. The Scientific Council's opinion, issued on 18 May, authorized this postponement, stating that "the holding of a single ballot rather than two, regardless of the dates chosen, is likely to reduce health risks". The organisation of the second round on 28 June required a text which would allow, if necessary, an umpteenth postponement, this time leading to the holding of the two rounds of the election for the communes which the first round of 15 March did not have elected. This bill "in case" deals with: the postponement of the election to January 2021; the guarantee for the elected officials of 15 March, now installed, to remain at their post, which was the object of the law of 23 March 2020 – remember that the second round was planned on 22. It also provides for the thresholds for the new election, particularly with regard to the reimbursement of campaign expenses, the operation of municipal councils and, of course, that of EPCIs, of which Stéphane Peu just stressed the importance for local investment. During the examination of the text in committee, the majority delivered three messages. First of all, it wished to extend the powers of attorney established for the first round. We welcome this measure, which was the subject of a decree. Secondly, it supported the introduction of a dual power of attorney. We welcome the adoption by the committee of this provision, which aims to ensure that participation on 28 June is as important as possible. The one we found in the first round was not able to satisfy any of us: it was desperately weak, both because of discouragement and the health context to which, for the moment, we could not do anything. We propose again to include in the law the obligation for the scientific council to give an opinion before 28 June. You told us in committee that the deadline of fifteen days before the vote would handicap you: remove it... However, we believe that the principle that this opinion should be given prior to the election is a good one because it ensures that national representation will be informed of it. We also asked the Government, who heard us, to cancel the election locally. In the event of a outbreak of contamination in one of the municipalities concerned, or in a department where several elections would take place, it would be important to be able to carry out this cancellation without disrupting the second round at national level. The third message we delivered to the Government was our opposition, which we reiterate, to the mail-order vote, first because of the risk of fraud, then because of its significant cost – 80 million euros – and finally because of organizational issues. No one is now in a position to hold a mail-order poll in as short a time as the one that separates us from 28 June. No one can guarantee that the post offices to which voters wishing to vote in this way would go would be safer, from a health point of view, than the polling stations, where many constraints are imposed. We also oppose that an elector's power of attorney may be entrusted to a person registered in another municipality, although we have included the principle in the law of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity to public action; But the work on this measure has not yet been completed – in other words, we are not ready. We wanted the campaign to be reinvented. Each has its own revenue, which it will not reveal at the rostrum of the assembly, to reach the voters that it had managed to convince through the door-to-door or by surveying the markets... It is the inventiveness of the campaign teams that is being asked, in a still degraded health context. Finally, with regard to the consular elections, which are the subject of Article 4, I tabled again the amendment which I had withdrawn in committee: colleagues elected by the French from abroad have in fact prompted me not to let the principle of an election in May 2021 be engraved in the marble. Parliamentarians would like to regain some latitude in this area. [[Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chair of the Law Committee, and Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, Rapporteur, applaud]] In any event, we hope that democracy will pass on 28 June for France as a whole to be equipped with municipal elected representatives with whom the State will be able to work towards the economic and democratic revival of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u29	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u30	Above all, I would like to pay tribute to the local elected officials. Whether they were installed after the election on 15 March or their mandate was extended, they made a major contribution to the fight against the epidemic; their tremendous commitment, the work they have done, the details in which they have entered, clearly show how much we need a decentralised democracy. We would do well to put greater trust in local authorities for operational organization and local political choices. Minister, this is the second time that you have put into practice a legislative method of your invention: the anticipated haste, that is, the organization, in advance, of the hasty examination of a text. This must not hide reality. The fact that we were discussing this bill before, of course, the date it sets for the second round, does not prevent the acceleration that I have just mentioned, since several-page long amendments were tabled the day before they were considered in the Senate and it is therefore difficult to measure their impact. Nor will this practice erase the democratic scandal of maintaining the first round, when the Prime Minister, speaking on television the day before, called on the French to stay at home! In what peaceful democracy do we see such things? I would add that the application of this text seems increasingly hypothetical; The precipitation in which it is examined is only more questionable. This bill is the result of the Prime Minister's last major speech, in which he said he wanted to anticipate a possible postponement of municipal elections. The exit from the crisis is staged, but doubt is emerging. The French were confined to their home for two months, an unprecedented measure, unsurpassed by the violation of public freedoms. Was it adequate? That's not the point. But in pursuing this momentum, are we not once again seeking to conceal the failures of the state: lack of equipment, masks, frost...? Under the cover of the health battle, this is a political battle. Minister, bars, restaurants have reopened; life gradually regains its rights. It is essential that local democratic life do the same, that communities re-launch their projects; In order to ensure economic recovery, we will indeed need them and their formidable public order capabilities. We will also need a return to the national democratic life, which has been set in stone, to the normal functioning of the Assembly. There must be a new place for political debate, between the parties, about the management and future of our nation. The text highlights several uncertainties. Not only will we have three weeks of campaigning before the second round, but the first will be all the more atypical because, legally, it will take place in the uncertainty of the holding of the election. Still, such a situation is unprecedented! You have tabled an amendment concerning the partial cancellation of the vote. We discussed this in the committee where you stated that the case law was constant on this point. I find it increasingly difficult to understand that we absolutely want to legislate to freeze case law: it is in a way demonizing the parliamentary debate, which plays a role in their drafting. The judge should refer to our debates. We should not need to legislate on issues that make consensus among us. The question of the provisional way of managing the EPCI in the event of the cancellation of the first round raises the question of their status: are they local authorities, trade unions? The intermediate elections that you propose add to the confusion. Despite all this vagueness, we see a positive element, introduced by the Law Commission: the extension of power of attorneys. In the end, that is all that will survive from this text when the municipal elections are held. The Republican Group will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u31	You forgot the French abroad and the consular elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u32	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u33	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement – MODEM – is hopeful that the second round of the general renewal of municipal and community councillors will be held, and that the new episode we have just experienced will remain behind us. This hypothesis is desirable so that the executive of the municipalities and the EPCI can work and accompany, on the ground, the exit from the crisis. If these elections could not take place, this bill will postpone them. This text is important, we all agree. We also propose to include it, as some of our colleagues in the majority have proposed, and as announced by the Prime Minister, the consultation of the Scientific Council. I do not know who specializes in staging this vote, but I do not think that we should look on the Government's side. It is a wise bill, which comes at the right time, and which we will vote with determination. As we said in committee, we are also pleased that the minister has agreed to reflect on the future of the vote and on its modernization. Let me open a small parenthesis on this. There are two of us in this House who have been elected by correspondence. If the consular elections had taken place on 17 May, they would have taken place via the Internet. The Government had worked on the subject, as had the elected representatives, and consultations had been held; that mechanism was working. I myself assisted in the counting of those mail-order votes that should be called advance votes. An election commission takes the count, places the votes in the ballot box, ticks the corresponding line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u34	It works very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u35	The system works very well and even better in many neighbouring countries. I am a Member of Parliament for the seventh French riding outside France, which includes Germany. Our fellow citizens in Germany smile a little when they hear us complain about the difficulty of organising remote elections. Germany has been doing this for decades, with very good results. Between 25% and 30% of voters vote by mail, in Germany, on much simpler terms, moreover, than those imposed on us in 2017. It should also be noted that electronic voting can be subject to citizen control, thanks to a code, which is sent. It is true that it can only be practiced a posteriori and it is a little complicated but it remains possible. Electronic voting is not a procedure of total opacity. Those who voted in the right and center primaries in 2016 know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u36	It was a paper vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u37	No, it was an electronic vote. Excuse me, but then I lived in Warsaw and voted electronically... I would now like to focus on local elected officials abroad, first of all to pay tribute to them. The elections, which should have been held on 17 May, were postponed until May 2021. Like the local elected representatives in France, they were engaged in the crisis, they participated in the repatriation of all our fellow citizens, they hosted them, supported them financially, transported them, they helped the consulates, in short, they were present. They have done the same work as the local elected representatives in France and they deserve the same tribute from the national representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u38	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u39	I maintain that we should not have any doubts about the postponement date of the consular elections. I do not see the point of opening up a new period of uncertainty. In some countries, the health crisis is just beginning, elected officials do not know whether or not they will be there next year. We must help them by giving them a firm date and not a date that is, every week, staggered by 90 days. My last comment will be for the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, whom I welcome. Why don't we take advantage of the one-year postponement of the consular elections to finally begin the reform of the status of the local elected candidate that we are all waiting for? We have the will, now the time. We've been thinking a lot about it together and already writing a lot about it. There is still a long way to go, particularly with regard to relations with the administration abroad. I will not go back to the relations between mayors and prefects. Things are somewhat different about the consuls, but let's not forget that the consuls were elected a few centuries ago, and that everything was going well, at least at the beginning. [[Mr. M-Jid El Guerrab applauds]] I therefore hope that we will put the reform of the status of the local elected official back on the job and that we will take advantage of this period to contribute to the proper functioning, in their own interest, of the consular administration and of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u40	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u41	The epidemic that struck us seems to be calming, but it is not impossible for a second wave to come up, forcing us to postpone the elections. In accordance with the opinion of the Council of State that the postponement should be framed over time, we understand that this case should be foreseen. The term of office of municipal and community councillors would then be extended, including in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, and we could wait until next January to hold new elections. We also endorse, in this text, the postponement of the consular elections in May 2021. This bill, as we understand it, is a subsidiary solution. The Socialist and related group is well aware that it will be necessary to live for a while with the epidemic of covid-19, in the absence of treatment and vaccine. Life must return to its course. In order to prevent the collateral consequences of confinement from aggravating an already important human, economic and social balance, it is preferable to close this electoral episode as soon as possible, before the summer period. We cannot ask mayors to reopen schools for the education of children and close them for the elections. Moreover, the request to hold the second round of elections came from a large majority of mayors. The paralysis experienced by local authorities is delaying the recovery, which is often based on public investment. Local authorities are the armed arm of our economy. Our jobs depend on it. Not less than 70% of the public order is made by the municipalities and intercommunalities. The challenge now is to regain normal activity by controlling the spread of the virus as best as possible. The second round must, of course, take place only if the health conditions are met. This provisional text therefore allows for its cancellation if the Committee of Scientists expresses serious reservations. Of course, the election campaign will not be like the ones we've known before. There will be no public meetings and we will need to find new ways to address the public. Our group has no major objections to make, but we simply regret that the proxy procedure has not been further simplified since voters who cannot take part directly in the voting still face too many difficulties in giving power of attorney. In particular, we think about the elderly who are fragile and who may be reluctant to travel. Deficiencies in this area are still too common: refusal to register the principal's request, power of attorney arrived in the town hall after the election due to problems of routing or an administration overwhelmed by requests, negligence in the preparation of the forms result in refusal of proxy at the polling stations. The digital tool could improve the situation without solving all the problems because too many people are still kept away from these new technologies. We therefore hope that measures will be taken to facilitate the exercise by our citizens of their right to vote by proxy. Democracy cannot be confined for too long. We commend the mayors and municipal councillors whose role is to bring democracy to life on a daily basis. This is important for our social and territorial cohesion. We hope that the second round will be held on 28 June for 16 million voters in about 5000 communes and we hope to obtain clarification on the health measures to be taken to ensure that these elections are held in good conditions. As it stands, our group will vote on the text as you present it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u42	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u43	The bill, which I hope is not intended to come into force, provides for the postponement of the elections – as well as the terms of the postponement – in the event that the second round of municipal elections cannot take place on June 28. It is therefore a foresight text that will clarify the conditions for holding elections in the event of a further postponement, and that is all the better. The text also provides for the resolution of certain malfunctions due to the too long period of time that has elapsed between the first round of municipal elections on 15 March and the effective start-up or installation of executive offices. During our work, I have repeatedly warned about the need to quickly install not only the municipal councils elected in the first round, but also the interim executives in the EPCIs. Since 15 March, certain agglomerations or communities of communes have been living in situations which are sometimes upuesque, which are most damaging from a democratic point of view and in view of the powers exercised by these EPCIs, in particular that of economic development in this period of major economic crisis. To the extent that their competences include economic development, it is highly detrimental that executive bodies, which are no longer legitimate, remain in place. What became urgent for the municipal councils is equally urgent for the EPCIs: keeping an executive decredible, when it is sometimes only one or two communes waiting for a second round, is, I insist, neither legitimate nor effective. You have remedied this since Article 1 of the text provides for the adaptation of the provisions of Article 19 of the Law of 23 March 2020 relating to EPCIs. For mixed EPCIs, composed of at least one commune whose municipal councillors in office before the March 15 election are still being extended, a provisional election of the executive is planned until all the municipal councils of the EPCI member communes are renewed. If the election held no later than January 2021 does not change the composition of its deliberative body, that election becomes final. This is a good thing for the stability of the workforce. I will, however, bring three flats. The first concerns the procedure for the election of communes of less than 1000 inhabitants where the municipal councillors are elected by single-member majority vote. There, a majority of candidates elected on 15 March 2020 will only take office at the end of January 2021, while the municipal council is incomplete only because of a few unfilled seats. I have therefore tabled an amendment along the same lines as the one aimed at electing provisional executive members from the EPCI with the new EU Councillors, elected as of 15 March 2020, even though some of them are missing. This joint municipal council would have the merit of being more legitimate for the population of the municipalities concerned and better reflecting the votes cast. The second point concerns one of the amendments tabled by the Government, which provides for the possibility of deferring the election in certain communes according to the health conditions they are experiencing. I must admit that I am wondering about the possibility given to the Government to postpone certain second rounds. The minimum would be to require that the decision to postpone take place on the basis of the assent of the Scientific Council, which would have the advantage of avoiding or minimizing the suspicion that it was taken on a partisan basis. You would thus be obliged to postpone the election in all the communes indicated by the scientific council, or in none of them. The third flat, which led me to table an amendment which was unfortunately considered inadmissible, concerns the arrangements for convening the new municipal elections. Article 1, paragraph 9, provides that the convening decree shall be adopted after the advice of the committee of scientists "on the state of the covid epidemic -19 and on the health risks attached to the holding of the election and the election campaign preceding it", and that the Government shall submit a report to Parliament "not later than five days before the publication of the decree". I had asked that Parliament be able to organise, at the latest three days before the publication of the decree, a debate followed by a vote. My proposal was not accepted. That is a pity, because if the organisation of a new two-round vote for municipal elections is to be carried out in consultation with the committee of scientists, and that is good, it is important to involve Parliament in it. Democratic life depends on the voice of the nation's representatives, who have been too often abused in recent weeks. It is time to remedy this and restore the full exercise of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u44	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u45	I thank the speakers who, on the one hand, held a balanced speech between the decision not to further slow down the pace of democracy and, on the other hand, the memory of the concern felt on the ground in the days following the first round: the one that health risks may force us – I say "force" – not to maintain the 28 June vote. What we want is to respect the recommendations of the scientific council, all its recommendations, both during the campaign and on the day of the vote. Their application on voting day is relatively easy: it is technically heavy, but the state services will be mobilised and we will succeed. The questions, which you have each expressed, relate to the campaign. Details will be provided on the opening of the official campaign in a circular to be communicated by the prefects to all elected officials. Subject to adherence to the barriers and behaviours recommended by the committee of scientists, we will strive to go as far as possible: I believe, for example, that it will be possible to hold public meetings in establishments receiving the public in the green zone, provided that the barrier actions and sanitary instructions applied to them are respected. Yes, public meetings can be held. The question arises differently in the orange zone, in Île-de-France, but I would like to work in conjunction with the scientific council to ensure that opportunities are offered. The Prime Minister's Order in Council proposes several ways to support the institutions of our country, some of which may be retained, and we will work to best respond to requests for public meetings, always respecting the rules applicable to institutions receiving from the public. Let us be clear: we do not claim an exclusively digital campaign. Everyone here is aware of the strength of digital technology, but also of its weaknesses and fragility, in particular the fact that it would leave a part of the population behind. But the stakes are that of participation. It must be made clear to the French concerned that there will be an election on 28 June, which many still do not have in mind. We must therefore use all means at our disposal. Mr Coquerel, the scientific council did not prohibit door-to-door access during the campaign: it recalled the sanitary instructions that we apply ourselves. Only handshakes, without being forbidden, are not recommended, but the campaign must live and I know that the candidates, whatever their label, will have that in mind. Mr Schellenberger, if we can raise the paradox of a piece of legislation that provides for a hypothesis that will not be accepted, it seems to me unfair to tax it as "early precipitation". The rush would be to do nothing, and then, after a second opinion from the Scientific Council, to see that parliamentarians must be brought together as a matter of urgency. We did not rush, we took the time to examine the text in the Committee on Laws, where I personally visited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u46	What an honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u47	Today, in the sitting, we will take all the time necessary to consider the amendments tabled. You have politically denounced the first round of elections and targeted responsibilities. But I will take the word of Eric Ciotti, who declared in the Sunday Journal on the day of the first round of the election: "Proceeding to the right would be unfair. I think it would be unfair to sue the Government, but you are free to do so. Eric Ciotti stated that the continuation of the election respected democracy and that cancelling it "would have been suspicious of political back-thinking". He gave this interview after the Prime Minister's speech, which took place on Saturday night. This electoral expert, who is even, I believe, the chairman of an electoral commission in your political party, stressed the importance of not breaking the way democratic life unfolds under difficult conditions. The Prime Minister said he took on this choice, and I take it from him. It was a difficult choice, but interrupting democracy at a few hours of voting is never an easy exercise. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the political debate, the contestation or the legitimate criticisms, of whatever bench they come from, and the political demand, including that of parliamentary control, we have all, together, through our ministerial or parliamentary functions, in the majority as well as in the opposition, committed ourselves to respect for confinement and the fight against the covid -19. Everyone with their convictions needed to be together. However, to suspend the elections, a few days or even a few hours before the first round, would have been to assume a break in the republican national concord of political parties. It is also an element that we wanted to take into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u48	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u49	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u50	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u51	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 8 and 14. Amendment No 8 by Mr Frédéric Petit is being defended. I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u52	He pointed out that an opinion of the Committee of Scientists would have to be given before the second round of municipal elections, so that we could assess whether it was appropriate to maintain it on 28 June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u53	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u54	Favourable, not only for the reasons that have already been explained, but also because this information will be necessary to reassure voters about the holding of this famous election.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u56	[[Smile]] For reasons of form, this amendment does not seem necessary. The principle of consultation with the Scientific Council had been established, and the Government had undertaken to request it on two occasions. Such provisions do not normally fall within the scope of the law. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment, and cannot fear being defeated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u57	Amendment No 12 by the rapporteur is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u58	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u59	I have already mentioned this in the general discussion. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, municipal councillors are elected by a single-member majority vote. At times, more than half of the city council was elected on March 15, but the new councillors will not take office until the end of January 2021. In some cases, the city council is almost complete, with only a few seats not filled. With regard to EPCIs, you are considering including in the law the possibility of electing provisional executive officers, composed of new community councillors elected as of 15 March 2020, even if some are missing. In the same vein, the amendment tends to give the councillors of municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants this possibility. A joint municipal council would also have the merit of being more legitimate, in that it would better reflect a significant part of the votes of the inhabitants of the commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u61	This amendment has been rejected in committee, and I shall again issue an unfavourable opinion. The comparison between the municipalities and the EPCIs is not valid. In a municipality of less than 1000 inhabitants, the legitimacy of each member of a municipal council is entire. Like all of you, I know some local situations: we know that it is those who propose the most projects that have the most difficulty in moving on to the first round. The risk would be to end up with executives who had been robbed by the second round of the election. We therefore hope that the present system will be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u62	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u63	I fully understand the meaning of this amendment and I could almost defend it, but it seems to me that the hybrid solution of having new and old elected seats in the same municipal body, where the political framework is quite different from that of the EPCIs, is a somewhat complicated exercise. The municipal councils have not been accustomed to such an operation, and their way of doing things has worked quite well so far. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u64	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u65	Minister, your argument is exquisite! It describes, to disassemble and reject it, the exact mechanism you choose to have us adopt for the IBDs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u66	I said the situations were different!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u67	It's being discussed... For years, you have been pushing the idea that an EPCI is a fully-fledged territorial community, almost autonomous. You voted, as a Member of Parliament, a law that introduced a system of dangling and provided for the election of community councillors by direct universal suffrage, according to a single-member vote. Today, you explain to us that co-habitation of outgoing executives and incoming deliberatives within the executive of a territorial community is not possible, whereas that is exactly what you are advocating for the EPCIs! I understand your argument, but if it's right, then you have to correct your own text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u68	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u69	Mr Schellenberger has been very clear. I do not see how the functioning of a municipal council differs from a community council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u70	Practice shows it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u71	The fact that municipal councils are elected by direct universal suffrage, unlike community councils, seems to me to be an additional reason for allowing a joint municipal council, composed of both former municipal councillors and candidates elected in the first round on 15 March, rather than strictly retaining the municipal council elected in 2014. I really do not see how this second solution would be more legitimate and democratic than the one I propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u72	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u73	I will go in the same direction as my colleagues: this hybrid system is not satisfactory, minister, but it is nonetheless engraved in the marble since it is enshrined in the emergency law to deal with the epidemic of covid -19, which provides for the cohabitation, in the EPCI, of the executive resulting from the municipal elections of 2014 and the possible new elected at the end of the first round of the elections of 15 March last. The rapporteur, in my view, there is no hierarchy of legitimacy between municipal elected representatives and community elected representatives. Since the introduction of the dangling technique, in communes with more than 1000 inhabitants, the names of the candidates appear on the same ballot and in communes with less than 1000 inhabitants, we know that it is simply the elected mayor who sits in the community of communes or in the community of agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u74	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u75	It seeks to ensure, in the event of the cancellation of the second round of balloting scheduled for 28 June, that no distinction will be drawn, in public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, between the complete councils since 15 March and those which will only be made at the end of the second round. The executive must be elected on an interim basis: once the EPCIs that were not complete on 15 March have become complete, it will be necessary to re-elect the executive in both situations. Otherwise, it would be a breach of equality that could lead to litigation or priority issues of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u77	This amendment was rejected by the committee. I hear your arguments, Mr. Brindeau, but you're kind of asking us why we want to make it simple when we can make it complicated! We are trying to enable the public authorities, as a whole, to get back on track to accompany projects and to get the public order back on track. I understand the spirit of your amendment, but without changing the composition of the EPCI deliberative body, why not just move forward? Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u79	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u80	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u81	I fully agree with Mr Brindeau's amendment. Although the democratic system must sometimes be adjusted to the margin to remain operational, it must not suffer any exceptions. We will see elected representatives sitting in the same assembly with legitimacy from a different election. It is this difference that must be taken into account. Let us imagine that the same Community Councillor, while the composition of the deliberative body of an EPCI does not change, sits there as an outgoing member of the majority of a commune, but now belongs to an opposition list in the same municipality. It's not impossible! And this may change the nature of his vote: the same person who belonged to a majority before the election is now a member of another municipal team, which may have another community project after the election. The vote went through that, democratic legitimacy went through that. There must therefore be a political discussion. It is not a parliamentary majority made up of a large number of Members who were formerly members of different political parties that can contradict this argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u82	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u83	It is not a matter of being simple or complicated. In any case, today the situation is complicated! It is not easy to bring together community councils of more than 100 elected representatives, many of whom have been in France since the last inter-municipal mergers, or to organise the election of fifteen vice-presidents, which requires sitting for several tens of hours. The real issue is the equality and legitimacy of elected officials, as Mr Schellenberger said. I am proposing a simple precautionary measure to avoid possible litigation that could be raised in the situation described by our colleague, or in others. Priority constitutional issues could be raised. It would be a shame to see certain councils cancelled and to have to go back to the election.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u85	As you said, Mr.Brindeau, the question is not to make it simple or to make it complicated – but let's try to make it simple! The text submitted by the Government says, basically, that if there is no change, nothing changes. In the event that the composition of the EPCI has not been changed and that the deliberative body has already organised these complicated meetings – and which present a health risk – during which the executive is appointed, we continue to be identical. Ask the question to all the community elected representatives who have already sat after the first round of the municipal elections: I think none of them will want to start over what has just been done, since the situation will not have changed and will even have been strengthened. That is what the Government's text provides for. The aim is to avoid a face-to-face meeting to vote on secret ballots if this is not necessary. But the Government will obviously implement what Parliament will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u86	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u87	It provides that the flat-rate reimbursement by the State of election expenses incurred at the end of the first round of 15 March with a view to the second round of 28 June will take place within one month of the validation of the campaign accounts even if the second round should be postponed or cancelled. You can imagine that, for a number of lists and candidates, double or triple expenses can have important consequences, including the very presence of these candidates in the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u89	Unfavorable opinion, as in committee. I will allow the Minister to provide the necessary clarification and reiterate his commitments regarding the timeliness of repayments. However, it does not seem appropriate to me to include in this bill a provision that obviously could not be applied, for even logistical and administrative reasons, even if I plead, once again, for the maximum efficiency of the administration and for the fastest possible reimbursements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u91	I fully share the philosophy of this amendment and understand the difficulties raised by Mr Brindeau, as I have already said in committee. I will also issue a very precise instruction from the Ministry of the Interior so that reimbursements can be made as soon as possible. However, these provisions fall within the regulatory level and must take into account the time frame for the investigation of the National Commission for Campaign Accounts and Political Financing (CNCCFP), which we do not know when it will have given its decisions in all departments. We must be very pragmatic. I repeat: we share your concern, Mr.Brindeau, and we will give a precise instruction to all players in the chain to ensure that refunds are made as quickly as possible. However, it would be risky to include this in the law because we are not immune to a technical obstacle or a road accident. That is why I ask you, on the basis of the commitment that I publicly renew here, to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u92	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u93	I hear your commitment, minister, and I thank you for that. However, I am a little concerned about the rapporteur's argument. You also referred to the technical difficulties in applying these provisions and the time taken by the CNCCFP to validate certain campaign accounts. That is why I made it clear in my amendment that the one-month deadline was beginning to run from the date of validation of campaign accounts. It seems to me feasible and can be heard. I will not therefore withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u94	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No 3 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u95	The aim is to include in the law the fact that health emergencies are, in themselves, grounds for proxy voting. As you know, in order to vote by proxy, there must be just cause, whether medical, professional or otherwise. The objective we are pursuing here, as in other amendments, is to really facilitate proxy voting in the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u96	Would you like to support Amendment No 2 at the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u97	I would like, Madam President, even if its purpose is a little different: it is to allow a member of the family of an elector establishing a proxy to vote for the latter even if the proxy is not on the list of electors of the principal's commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u98	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u99	Disadvantaged, unless they're removed. In both cases, I will refer to the provisions of the Act on the involvement in local life and the proximity of public action, known as the Act on Engagement and Proximity. Amendment No. 3 will soon be satisfied by a decree provided for in this law, which will be published shortly – Mr.Minister will probably give us details. With regard to Amendment No 2, which seeks to allow power of attorneys for the benefit of persons not on the list of electors of a municipality, everyone agreed that it presented a technical difficulty. Moreover, it is not by chance that the law commitment and proximity provided that this would only be possible from 2022: in committee, the Minister said that INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – was not yet able to implement such a provision, because it takes time: one must check that no other proxy has been established by the principal and that the proxy is actually registered somewhere on a list of electors... All these difficulties make the scheme very uncertain. I am therefore against Amendment No 2, and I would like to allow the Minister to clarify.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u101	With regard to Amendment No 3, I have undertaken, and I repeat, to include this provision in a decree currently being drafted, which will be before the Council of State today. This amendment of the electoral code, already permitted by the legislation in force, will thus have a solid foundation. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment by renewing my commitment to open this option by order-in-council, which is likely to be published prior to the final passage of this bill. As for the provision proposed by the second amendment, the rapporteur has just indicated that it should apply from 1 January 2022. I interviewed the INSEE, which manages the system on behalf of the local authorities and the State, and which replied that I was not yet able to cross all the information, and in particular to check the registration of the representative on the electoral list of a neighbouring municipality. If you were to vote on this amendment, we would therefore be unable to implement it in such a short time frame. If I understand the logic, I therefore ask for the withdrawal, otherwise the Government's opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u102	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u103	I will withdraw Amendment No 3 in view of the commitment you have just made, Minister. With regard to Amendment No 2, you point out the technical impossibility of implementing the scheme, but in order to establish a power of attorney, it seems to me possible to provide a certificate of registration on the electoral lists of his municipality. It is in any case that we are doing to table our candidacy in the municipal elections: it is a very simple and very quick act to establish for all the communes of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u104	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u105	The aim is to extend the scope for the use of power of attorneys for future consular elections, as planned in metropolitan France for municipal elections. It is important to make the parallel, whenever possible, between the measures taken for the metropolis and those taken for the French abroad. The difficulties inherent in the geographical dispersal of French foreigners will be added to those related to the fact that local responses to the health crisis are very heterogeneous, and sometimes even deficient. It would therefore be very useful today to provide for the possibility of moving to four power of attorneys, instead of three, for the upcoming consular elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u107	Unfavourable notice or request for withdrawal. You want French residents abroad to benefit from the possibility of establishing four power of attorneys instead of three, including one established in France. However, it seems difficult for me to bring the municipal elections closer to the consular elections because, for the latter, it is possible to vote by moving to the polling stations, by proxy and via the Internet. This latter solution seems to me to enable a large number of our citizens living abroad to vote. Therefore, there is no need to amend the current law. To supplement my reply to Mr Brindeau on Amendment No 2, I would point out that the difficulty is above all to verify that no other power of attorney has been established in another municipality. That is what poses a real technical problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u108	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u109	This amendment aims to reintroduce a little predictability into the electoral calendar that will follow the hypothetical cancellation of the second round of municipal elections. We want to set a somewhat more precise framework for the Senate elections that will follow. It is true that it has been several times that the electoral calendar is marked, until the last moment, by many uncertainties. Several successive governments have carried out such strategies. For our democracy to be calmed, it is time for us to return to a more traditional electoral rhythm and to know the dates for the elections at an early stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u111	Disadvantaged, as I have already indicated in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u112	But my amendment is better written today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u113	[[Smile]] I certainly prefer it! You would like the order to be issued for the Senate elections six months before the election, so that candidates have a certain date for the start of the election campaign. As in committee, I would like to point out that this provision would have a greater place in the organic bill for the postponement of Senate and by-elections. In substance, Article 3 is intended only to clarify that the rules of common law governing electoral propaganda and campaign financing will apply well six months before the election, i.e., a priori, from March 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u116	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u117	I am disappointed that the rapporteur has not reread the amendment, which I have improved as a result of the discussions we have had in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u119	It is no longer a question of a decree, but of a simple rule of courtesy which the Government could apply to the High Assembly, indicating to it at least six months in advance the date on which it intends to call the Senate elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u120	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u121	This amendment on the consular elections takes up the one I tabled in committee on behalf of the Republic on the move: it is not a matter of freezing the date in May 2021, but of providing that it will take place by that date at the latest. I had withdrawn this amendment to consult our colleagues representing the French from abroad, who want us to retain this latitude in the text that will be voted on. I therefore propose this amendment again, which I shall maintain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u123	In line with our position in committee, I shall deliver a favourable opinion. This issue needs to be discussed, but I do not see how to give this mechanism some flexibility could present difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u124	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u125	Ah! That's why he's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u126	The Government will issue a wisdom opinion on this amendment. A desire for flexibility is expressed, but candidates in consular elections, such as their voters, the French established outside France, must have some visibility. This vote has already been staggered twice and the third date should be fixed. That is why we have set this horizon for May 2021, where we hope that the epidemic situation in the world will make it possible to hold the elections in the best possible conditions. However, the Government will, I repeat, be guided by the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u127	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u128	I understand Mr Houlié's amendment, but parliamentarians representing the French abroad and the consular advisers themselves really need visibility. I understand the desire to provide flexibility. From this point of view, the postponement had one virtue: when I consulted the consular advisers in my constituency, they were more than a dozen in support of the Government's approach. I thank you, Minister, for hearing their appeal. In fact, the consular elections could not have been held within normal and reasonable time frames or calmly, especially in countries such as my constituency in West Africa, where it would have been very difficult to organize this election. So I thank you, but why insure, stabilize? Let's set a date, let's set, if necessary, a slightly more open deadline, but let's point to a horizon! In fact, consular advisers will have to campaign. As we speak, they do not know whether this is already the case or not, and whether there will be a vote. Let's secure the situation! Mr Houlié, consular advisers really need a horizon that is not uncertain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u129	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u130	Like the Secretary of State, I have no agreed opinion on this point, but if Mr. Lemoyne moves in person on this question alone, it is probably because there is a political interest behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u131	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u132	It seems to me that this is an interest in the method described by Mr Houlié: the amendment was withdrawn in committee so that it could be discussed by the majority among the colleagues concerned, then it was re-tabled at the sitting and obtained a favourable opinion from the rapporteur. Such a chambouille, where there is discussion of a method of voting, even for consular elections, among the elected representatives concerned of the majority, tends to cause me to doubt the interest of the amendment. Because of this method, I will therefore oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u133	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u134	I am quite surprised by Mr Schellenberger's criticism: when we do not discuss, we are undemocratic, and when we discuss, we are suspicious of having interests or bad intentions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u135	You're talking to each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u136	The fact is that we have withdrawn this amendment in committee and have discussed it. Some of our colleagues tell us that we need this flexibility, on which the Government gives a wise opinion. Mr El Guerrab, I also understand your position, but we do not lose sight of the horizon, which remains fixed in May 2021. However, if the situation could be resolved before that date, there would still be an interest in the possibility that the bodies representing French residents abroad could be renewed as soon as possible by consular elections. This is a democratic issue, because the postponement of all electoral deadlines is never a good thing for anyone. Democracy must be practised as soon as possible under the most secure conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u137	I have before me three amendments to the supplementary article after Article 4. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u138	The question is quite technical, but it also has practical consequences, which I propose to resolve. The appointment of the delegates of the municipal councils and their alternates, so that they may be large voters, shall take place within six weeks before the election of the senators, in order to allow the candidates senators to campaign knowing who they are speaking to,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u139	That is Amendment No 15!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u140	I'm sorry! Amendment No 16 concerns an issue which I mentioned in my opening statement and which we discussed in committee: the possibility of suspending the election of the second round in certain communes, and only in these communes, when the epidemiological situation is considered serious and does not allow the second round of the election to be organised. As I said in committee, this situation has already occurred, for example because of an earthquake or mud flow, usually overseas. The prefect must therefore be able to decide, at the last minute, the interruption of the process and the postponement of the elections. The case law has validated this possibility, but it is not necessarily frozen, so that if, on the basis of the opinion of the Scientific Council, we were to suspend the election for only a few communes, there could be a risk of litigation for all the communes on the grounds of this difference in treatment. The amendment proposed by the Government therefore tends to secure this mechanism by limiting to 5 per cent of the total number of municipalities for which this would be possible and by considering elections held in other municipalities as valid or by assisting in their validation in the event of an appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u142	Favourable opinion. Mrs Pinel called on us just now to show common sense in understanding the issues we are discussing today. This is the case here, because the situation referred to by the minister is possible. We need humility in the face of events. If something happens in certain geographical areas, it must be possible to avoid it having an impact on the whole territory. Minister, you consider a 5% threshold for municipalities to be a criterion. Perhaps the parliamentary debate will make it possible to refine this figure. In principle, however, this proposal seems to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u143	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u144	This amendment, which is quite detailed, is not only technical. I take this opportunity to reiterate that the fact of maintaining the first round of elections on 15 March, under the conditions we know and when it was already known that the country was going to be confined and that the second round could not take place the following week, made this election abnormal. In fact, with two towers so spaced, we can consider that the circumstances and the time are no longer the same and that this is no longer a single election. That is also what this amendment, which states in a way, provides, inter alia, that, while the municipalities which cannot organise the elections on 28 June represent less than 5 % of the total, the two rounds will again take place at a later date, with the exception, however, of the election of municipal, community and, where appropriate, district councillors elected on 15 March 2020, whose term of office would remain valid. Report the two rounds of the election in a commune while considering that some candidates were nevertheless elected on 15 March, it is a gas factory, with elected officials who will not have been elected in the same way. This point in the amendment, which is quite indicative of the problems we are facing, is very surprising.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u145	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u146	I understand the risk of a change in case law, especially in view of the latitudes that you offer yourself in this amendment. You limit the proportion of municipalities in which you could cancel the second round of voting to 5%. However, 5% of 4855 still represent 242 communes, in which you may allow yourself, depending on the circumstances, to cancel the elections. It's not nothing! Given that there must be no more than 50 communes to be filled in most departments, the vote could be cancelled in large territorial rights of way. What about the population concerned? Indeed, even if all elections were worth the same, a proportion of 5 per cent of the municipalities would not have the same effect depending on whether the scheme would apply in Paris or in a small rural municipality. What would happen, Mr. Minister of the Interior, if you decided, just a few days before the election, to cancel the municipal elections in Paris? Politically, this is not just a technical amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u147	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u148	As I said during the general discussion, this amendment seems important to me in the new health context we know. It cannot be said today that new clusters will not appear in certain communes, small or large in demographic terms, which would be worrying our fellow citizens when they go to the polls and prevent them from guaranteeing the sincerity of the vote. As the Minister of the Interior has pointed out, and as we can understand, such a mechanism has already been put into practice overseas, especially for climatic reasons. However, it has given rise to litigation. The Government's will seems to me to be to secure the mechanism legally, as evidenced by a statement of reasons that evokes these clusters, allowing this flexibility and anticipating it. Several of us may have regretted in the past the lack of anticipation and the fact that the crisis has sometimes been dealt with on a case-by-case basis. For once, and we must salute him, the Minister of the Interior anticipates the assumption that such a situation could occur in certain communes, whatever their size, while setting a guard, a red line, stating that the number of these communes cannot exceed 5% of the total. It would be wise for this House to accept this amendment. Indeed, what would happen if there appeared in a commune an important cluster, with many people in a vital state of emergency? This amendment is therefore a common sense amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u149	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u150	In support of Mrs Pinel, I would add that the scope of the figure of 5% should not be overestimated: in reality, many communes where a second round is necessary, because the city council did not pass the dam of the famous "pigeon shooting" to the first, have fewer than 1000 inhabitants. Moreover, as regards the prerogative of the Ministry of the Interior, it seems to me beneficial, in the context of the state of health emergency, that its implementation should be enshrined in the law. It was also a request of the majority, in order to enable Parliament to carry out its main task of monitoring and evaluating the Government. The majority will therefore vote for this amendment, which it has requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u151	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u152	I would like to reassure Mr Coquerel that the amendment does not in any way alter the rules adopted by Parliament under the 23 March Act. It merely repudiates them about the municipalities that might be affected by a new postponement. It is simply a matter of taking into account our debate in committee by legislating to secure an approach which is already open to prefects. Mr Schellenberger, beyond the pleasure I take in our exchanges, I am surprised that after criticising the Government for not cancelling an election, the day before it was held, in 35,000 communes...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u153	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u154	... you were sorry now – that said without provoking you, I appreciate our discussions too much for that! – it makes it possible to cancel in 242 communes. [[Smile]] The Government's idea, in the light of the parliamentary debate, was simply to avoid the postponement of the election in all the French territories because one of them would be affected. In fact, it can be not only a commune, but a whole department: for example, Nord-Pas-de-Calais has 155 communes where a second round must be organised – but it is a simple example, I do not aim at any particular department. That is why we are giving ourselves the opportunity to reserve some part of the territory, hence the 5%: if this threshold was exceeded, we could consider that the vote should be postponed everywhere. In this case, we would be forced to come back to Parliament to consider a new law, while this text is supposed to exempt us – even if it is always a pleasure to be there. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u155	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u156	This technical amendment is the result of the difference between French Polynesia and the rest of the national territory with regard to the rules for the designation of major voters by municipal councils. As a result of this particularity, if the election takes place on 28 June in Polynesia, the municipal councils of some municipalities, ten in number, can be set up on 19 July, which would not allow for the nomination of Senate delegates until week 30. It is therefore proposed that you derogate from the rule applicable in metropolitan France for the appointment of the delegates of the municipal councils and their alternates in the communes of French Polynesia composed of associated communes located on several islands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u158	As a former rapporteur for the two bills relating to the autonomy status of French Polynesia, I can only welcome this coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u159	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u160	I am not an unconditional request to report to the Government. My little parliamentary experience proves this: in three years I have had to table a single amendment to this effect. I am making an exception here for the benefit of the French abroad. The councillors of the French abroad are the local elected representatives of the 3.5 million French who live abroad. The law of commitment and proximity grants them new prerogatives by allowing them to preside over consular councils. It is necessary to go further by giving them more weight in decision-making and in the institutions. This is the purpose of the amendment, which is intended to launch a wide-ranging reflection on the current representation with the aim of considering reforms. Tocqueville wrote that it is "in the commune that the strength of the free peoples resides," and that the communal institutions "put [freedom] within the reach of the people. Indeed, a citizen only exercises his or her responsibilities if he or she feels concerned by the defined electoral territory, if he or she understands the role of the elected representatives he or she is asked to choose and if they have the power to influence his or her daily life. The councillors of the French abroad are the local elected representatives who place freedom within the reach of the people living abroad. They are the interlocutors of the daily life that make France live abroad. The health crisis has shown the importance of the advisory work of these elected officials who do not count their hours at the service of the community. They are indispensable links in relations with consulates on issues of security, education, cultural affairs, settlement assistance and social protection. However, their status and remuneration are not commensurate with this central role. That is why we call on the Government to submit to Parliament a report that envisages a change in their mandate. I repeat, a great reflection must be undertaken, a kind of Grenelle des Français de l'étranger, which would allow their political representation to be recast and give more powers to their elected representatives. At a time when the Government had set out the ambition of a new phase of decentralization, the 3.5 million French from abroad should not be forgotten. The place of their elected representatives must be reviewed in order to give them institutional recognition to match their investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u162	I understand your plea: no doubt it is necessary to work on the status of the elected representatives of the French abroad and on the conditions for the exercise of their mandate. But you will agree that if Parliament wants a report, it has only to do so itself – this is the constant position of the Law Committee on this matter. In addition, the amendment is far removed from the subject matter of the law. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u164	We agree with the spirit of the amendment: we must welcome the action of consular advisers and advisers to the Assembly of French Foreigners – AFE – who represent our compatriots living outside France and bring them a lot on a daily basis. For several years now, I have been working with you to propose improvements, both in terms of status and skills. Here are two recent illustrations. Since the law's commitment and proximity, especially as a result of amendments defended here by Paula Forteza and to which I thank the Chair of the Law Committee for being sensitive, the presidency of the consular councils can be entrusted to the elected representatives and not only to the heads of post. This represents a true Copernician revolution, and I am grateful to Jean-Yves Le Drian for following me in this case despite the blockages that had to be faced. In addition, we have provided these elected officials with access to a training package, based on the model of the regime applicable to local elected officials. Rather than a genuine request for a report, it seems to me to be an appeal amendment that is proposed to us, to encourage us to continue and amplify this action. Let's work on it together. In the meantime, request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u165	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u166	Thank you for this detailed response and above all for this tribute to the advisors of the French abroad, who are truly indispensable to the community of our compatriots living outside France and to their relations with the consulates. I have a special thought for those in the Maghreb and West Africa, who are doing extraordinary work on the ground. Thank you also for having responded to my call, since that is what this was all about. Like all parliamentarians representing the French abroad, consular elected officials and elected officials at the AFE, I am at the disposal of the Government to reflect on a new institutional architecture in this area. While decentralization has been taking place in metropolitan France since 1981 and abroad, the structures remain highly centralized and everything revolves around administration. That is why we must give more power to these elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u167	The President of the National Assembly convened the Conference of Presidents for this morning in the Chamber of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I therefore invite the representatives of the groups to visit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u168	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u169	The meeting was resumed. The Conference of Presidents decided to postpone the vote on the bill as a whole until Monday, June 8, at 4 p.m. Prior to the suspension, we completed our review of the sections of the bill. We can now hear explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u170	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u171	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, the Minister of the Interior, who preceded you on the bench of the Government, contradicted me when I spoke in the general discussion of "early precipitation". The episode that has just occurred is nothing more than the demonstration that this bill was drafted in haste, even its potential application is remote, which may have led to some sort of anticipation. Fortunately, the La République en marche group was able to count on its new allies in the Action Together group to remedy the negative effects of this haste and postpone until Monday the vote on the draft law in order to comply with the organic law which obliges New Caledonia to consult on the provisions that concern it. Although they have been drawn up in haste, I am convinced that most of the provisions of this text will not be applied – I certainly hope so – because the epidemic is gradually fading and disappearing. Life regains its rights, democratic life as well. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] I hope that the conditions will be met for the second round of municipal elections to take place on 28 June. Some of the provisions of the bill will still apply. This is the case with consular elections and, above all, with dual powers of attorney. The possibility of a dual power of attorney in the context of the health crisis will lead the Republicans to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u172	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u173	The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the bill. This text anticipates the resumption of the epidemic, which we obviously do not wish to see. It also helps to clarify certain devices. Our discussions this morning gave the Government an opportunity to clarify the modalities of the electoral campaign. Indeed, although many of us are convinced that electoral operations can take place under exemplary sanitary conditions, as was very often the case in the first round, the rules on the campaign had to be clarified in order to preserve the sincerity of the vote. The Minister of the Interior has undertaken to clarify all this in a circular. Beyond this text, which we all hope will not be applied, it would be interesting to consider safe and reliable voting arrangements for periods of health crisis. In particular, this could focus on power of attorneys and campaign modalities. Unfortunately, we are not immune to the recurrence of such health events, and it would be good if our right were to include mechanisms that allow us to adapt and anticipate better than to have to react urgently and to cancel certain elections at the last moment, as may have been the case for the second round of municipal elections. The bill also facilitates the establishment of power of attorneys. It does not open up the scope of electronic voting and mail-order voting, which I, for my part, am extremely reserved for. Finally, it fluidizes the rules of the electoral campaign, in particular those relating to campaign accounts. For all these reasons, this rather technical bill will, I repeat, have the consent of my political group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u174	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u175	The postponement of the vote to Monday is an umpteenth episode of the very risky management of elections during the epidemic. This is certainly not the most serious: the municipal elections are primarily distorted by the holding of the first round on 15 March, under conditions which did not allow our fellow citizens to vote in complete peace, hence the observed rate of abstention, and by the historical delay imposed between the two rounds. In any case, we can all welcome the fact that, obviously – I touch wood! – the virus has a seasonal aspect. I do not see why it would weaken today in the country, given the level of protection that is taking place: if the epidemic had the same scale and severity as a few months ago, the figures would go up again. I hope that the trend will continue and that the elections can take place. But if the elections are possible, because the virus is less aggressive and with the necessary sanitary conditions and gestures, I would like to relax the rules for the campaign, so that it gets as close as possible to a normal campaign. I would like to take a very bad view of the fact that what is happening today, for these municipal elections, is a case law. I repeat: without a normal campaign, there are no normal elections. Mr Castaner wanted to reassure me about the door-to-door; I hope that he will do the same on the possibility of holding open-air meetings, which would not be more dangerous than the terraces of the cafés, which are now open. I take note of his remarks and hope for a broad understanding of the Government on this point. As I said, the group of La France insoubted will abstain from this text because we cannot support the entire work of the Government in electoral matters. But the content of the bill seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u176	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u177	This ultimate turnaround shows the difficulties we are working on in the face of this unexpected epidemic, but it does not change our opinion on the need to predict what can happen if the epidemic goes up. The Socialist and Related Group will continue to support this text, hoping that, by 28 June, the circular we are waiting for will provide us with a sufficiently clear instructions on how to campaign in these particular circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u178	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u179	As we have already said: the IDU and independent group will support this text, which everyone here wishes not to see applied, since its provisions concern the case where the health conditions would not allow the organisation of the second round on 28 June. The episode of the covid-19 has shaken our economic, social, but also democratic life and there are lessons to be learned. So, and that is a good thing, we have expanded the possibility of voting by proxy. What is happening today, Minister, shows that the Government is scrupulously watching to respect the prerogatives of the executive of the overseas communities, even if it leads us, and that is a shame, to postpone the vote until Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u180	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u181	I would like to commend the Government for its efforts during this crisis. Many came to make assumptions and bring solutions once the worst had happened. This Government seems to me to be acting, from the outset, with pragmatism and prudence, and I would like to congratulate it on that. The text before us is important in that it enables the expression of local democracy, which is so important to our fellow citizens. They want to vote quickly, without waiting for several months or even a year, to choose those who will lead the future of their commune. It was therefore important to find a solution quickly. By providing for the possibility, if the scientific council considers that the health risks are too great, of deferring the second round, the Government has once again been cautious, while demonstrating its willingness to act quickly to enable each community to serve its citizens as best it can. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u182	We are done with explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-05-O1226.u183	Next meeting, Monday, 8 June, at 4 p.m.: Vote on the bill to cancel the second round of municipal elections and postpone consular elections; Questions on the theme: "Housing policy: the impact of the covid -19 crisis, prospects for economic recovery and the essential ecological transition"; Questions on the organisation of the public hospital and the role of regional health agencies. The meeting is adjourned.
