ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u1	The president of the La France insoumée group informed me that Ms Clémentine Autain was appointed secretary of the National Assembly, replacing Mr Alexis Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u2	The next item is the debate on the emergency bill to deal with the epidemic of Covid -19 (No. 2762, 2764) and the emergency organic bill to deal with the epidemic of Covid -19 (No. 2763, 2765). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion. As the health crisis does not allow us to meet in large numbers in the Chamber, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of the sittings. Firstly, the eight groups are represented, in addition to their chairman or representative, by only two Members. The votes will be by show of hands, with each chairman or his/her representative expressing the votes of his/her entire group. The same principle will apply to the vote on each of the two texts, but Members will have the opportunity, before explanations of vote, to inform their group or the service of the sitting that they wish to vote differently. Non-attached Members also have the opportunity to communicate their voting positions on all texts to the service of the sitting. Thus, each Member's position on all of these two texts will be taken into account. On the other hand, since the entry into force of the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, every Member has the opportunity to present a written contribution which is annexed to the minutes of the debates. In the general discussion, speakers will speak from their bench and not from the rostrum. I invite them not to put their hands on the microphones and to use different microphones, even if they will be cleaned after each use. Of course, the barrier measures we all know must be respected; In particular, the entrances and exits of the Chamber will have to be staggered. Thank you for your understanding and assistance, given the very exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u3	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u4	The President of the Republic said: we are facing the most serious health crisis in a century. This crisis, exceptional in its nature and scale, requires exceptional mobilization and means. There are more than 240,000 cases and 10,000 deaths in 160 countries. France, itself badly hit, pays a heavy toll: 11,000 people have been identified and more than 372 of them have died. On all continents there is a sense of urgency and sometimes panic. Haunts thought to have disappeared in Europe, defeated by the progress of science, reappeared: that of being a victim of oneself, that of losing one or more relatives before the hour. To this anxiety rooted in everyone's most intimate is added a series of very concrete concerns: will I lose my job or a significant part of my income? How can I cope with my obligations? How can my company survive the disaster? How can I keep my children, protect them today and feed them tomorrow when the health crisis has shown its most pernicious effects? How can we ensure the survival of our social, cultural, commercial and industrial fabric? The state of emergency is also economic and social. To this French, European and international health and economic crisis, we must oppose all the power and constancy of our collective intelligence by mobilizing our political and moral resources in the face of danger. It is solidarity that brings us together when we face a historic test. It is the combativity of men and women who are willing to discipline themselves and to surpass themselves when circumstances dictate it. It is the intelligence of doctors, caregivers, researchers and laboratories that will bring us the ultimate solution through treatments and vaccines; Already promising trials give rise to a timid hope and, given the urgency, we naturally allow accelerated procedures in the study protocols. In public and private hospitals and clinics, caregivers fight on the front lines without sparing their efforts; They are hard-pressed and we owe them and all those – roadmen, cashiers and salesmen, artisans, workers, peasants, members of the forces of law and order – who continue to work in contact and deserve our respect. They are essential because it is through their efforts that the country continues to live and feed itself. I say this clearly: we absolutely need that all these supply chains can continue to function, otherwise we would face even more serious difficulties. Let us fight by overcoming our divisions in a republican spirit to live up to the responsibilities entrusted to us by the French. Life and history have decided that it is up to us to face this ordeal. Let us do so with the calm, determination, composure and unity required by the great national trials. For my part, I have confidence: we will be able to overcome this ordeal thanks to the strength of the French, the excellence of our health system and the strength of our state. As I said in the Senate on Thursday, since the first day, our strategy has been to deal with it in two words: to give top priority to public health considerations and to base our decisions on the opinions given transparently by the scientific experts we consult. The considerable efforts we are calling on our fellow citizens, we are asking them to do so at the time and under the conditions recommended by our scientific council, that is, not too soon or too late. However, I am fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, that defining the right time – not too soon or too late – for every measure to be effective is both an absolute priority and a formidable challenge. The exceptional measures we have taken have been taken collectively and conscientiously: the repatriation and isolation of our compatriots who had stayed in China in January, the first confinements in the Alps and in the Oise, as soon as cases have been detected, in order to prevent the spread of the virus in the national territory. Last Thursday, we decided to close the crèches, schools and universities, and then inevitably followed businesses that were not essential to the life of the nation. Secondly, containment was considered necessary to counter a progression whose pace was becoming exponential, as in other countries. Doctors tell us that if Covid-19 – the disease triggered by the virus – is mild for 80% to 90% of people affected by it, 5% of infected people may be placed in resuscitation. The virus can be fatal in proportions ranging from 1% to 2% of cases, or even more, without the full explanation of the gap between the statistics found in different countries. I repeat: 80% to 90% of patients have mild symptoms, but 5% are placed in resuscitation. This proportion appears to be small, but the absolute number is considerable, given the size of the populations affected and the particular severity of the disease for the elderly and those suffering from other conditions. In the face of these figures, our strategy is therefore to slow down as much as possible the progression of the virus in order to crush the peak of contamination, to reduce or contain the number of patients in great difficulty who must be placed in the resuscitation services – services which we know are already under very severe stress in the Grand Est, Île-de-France and Corsica. This strategy gave us time to increase the number of beds available in the resuscitation services. We have gradually increased from about 5000 to 7,900 places throughout the country and in intensive care services. Despite the increase in the number of patients, we still have 4000 critical care beds instead of the 1300 beds available at the beginning of the epidemic. Local tensions are emerging and will increase in some cases. We then deploy means of transferring patients to other institutions capable of taking care of them, including, if necessary, using medicalized military means, as we did in Mulhouse. This strategy also covers masks and hydro-alcoholic gels. As early as February, the four main French manufacturers of masks used by healthcare professionals were asked to significantly increase their production rates. The exercise is not simple: given the urgency, we would like the increase in production rates to be immediate and its effects to be as immediate, but the truth is that we must recognize that these operations sometimes take longer than we wish. In order to avoid any speculative phenomenon and to enable the state to prioritize needs, on 3 March I signed a decree requesting stocks and productive capacities of anti-projection masks and FFP2 masks. Since then, the four main manufacturers have been in constant contact with Public Health France and are fully mobilized to maximize their productive capacities. The Government is accompanying these companies to remove all regulatory or supply barriers and increase their production capacity. A destocking of approximately 25 million masks was carried out in early March. Thanks to the requisitions – which made it possible to recover masks – and despite this destocking, which made it possible to distribute them, the stock was kept at 105 million masks by 16 March. That week, 29 million masks were distributed to professionals: 17 million to hospitals and 12 million to city medicine. We have also formed a supply team abroad that has identified masks available all over the world, and on this basis we are acquiring hundreds of millions of masks. The Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Defence have commissioned a series of industrial sectors and researchers to find alternative solutions, either to multiply production chains or to qualify disposable or reusable alternative solutions. The ministries have qualified test benches and made specifications available to the industrialists; Forty prototypes of surgical masks and FFP2 masks are being tested. The Minister of Solidarity and Health, who will speak before you at 15.00, will give a full presentation of the stock situation and the measures taken at the national level, in order to complete the few elements I wanted to communicate to you right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u6	With regard to hydro-alcoholic gels, we also acted very quickly. In early March, we introduced price controls and, at the same time, allowed pharmacists to produce frost. We have engaged with producers and distributors in market structuring to increase capacity and ensure the availability of products. The measures we have taken – from repatriation to containment of the entire population, as well as the gradual transition through the various stages of management of the epidemic – have been taken at the exact time when the doctors qualified to make recommendations advised us. The decision is political; She's ours. It is not a question of asking scientists to make these decisions, even if their responsibilities, far from being ancillary, are naturally eminent. Political decision-making, as everyone here knows, is a matter of political power, and so it is. While the decision is political, it must be informed, in this case by experts in the scientific council which the Government has placed at its side. Given these decisions, we must now take the utmost care to ensure that they are respected, in particular by means of a system of reinforced fines so that they are more dissuasive and allow those who have not understood the value of these measures to grasp their importance. If we had to go further and deploy additional resources to ensure that these measures have all their effects, we would do so. I wish to reiterate a message of great firmness. The act of civic responsibility expected of each of us to protect ourselves, to protect others and to contribute to the braking and elimination of the epidemic is to strictly and rigorously abide by the rules of confinement and, at work and in everyday life, to stick to the actions that are recommended to us. I solemnly say: the confinement of our social life must be maximum to break the circulation and advance of the virus. Economic life must continue as much as possible, in order to ensure the essential functions of the nation and the daily life of the French. It can and must be organised in compliance with health safety regulations by agreement within companies, thanks to the vigilance and patriotism of all. I would like to thank once again, on behalf of all of us, the workers, companies and public institutions who are trying to continue their activities and who find, sometimes with ingenuity and always with the sense of social dialogue, the means to fulfil their tasks without endangering their health or that of others. I would also like to refer to the specific situation in our overseas countries and territories. The containment measures are also introduced, perhaps even faster, because, as in Hexagon, we need to preserve our treatment and care capabilities. We therefore introduce measures adapted to contain the virus, in particular with regard to cruise ships, or the strict quartet imposed on people arriving in island territories. To our compatriots and our overseas companies, particularly those of tourism, I want to make it clear that national solidarity applies and will continue to apply fully, with respect, of course, for the powers of the overseas communities. I also want to ensure that the continuity of transport between Hexagon and the overseas is maintained, however, under very strict conditions, because we know that too rapid a spread of the virus in these territories would have important consequences. I can count on the French and French, all the intermediate bodies and our institutions to oppose the spread of the virus a chain of responsibility. Parliament, for its part, ensures the continuity of our democratic life. At this time, I thank you in particular, you who were among the first struck; I present to those who are sick – Members, officials and collaborators – my wishes for prompt and complete recovery. Yesterday, the amending finance bill that you passed on Thursday, which will provide our economy with all the necessary financial support – guarantee of appropriations, new budgetary appropriations – was passed in the same terms by the Senate. Today is an emergency bill before you to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic, considered by the Senate on Thursday. It has four objectives: to protect our people, to save our economy, to temporarily adapt the rules of law to the upheavals in economic, social and administrative relations, and finally to organize the postponement of the second round of municipal elections, originally scheduled for Sunday, 22 March. I would like to go back to the first set of provisions that, in the emergency bill to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic, concern the postponement of the second round of municipal elections. The decisions to maintain the first round, then to postpone the second, are strictly in line with the logic of responding to the spread of the virus that I exposed to you a few moments ago. Neither was taken lightly, on the contrary: it was a matter of carefully weighing the elements in favour of maintaining or postponing a democratic vote fundamental to the daily life of the French in times of rising epidemics. All of you, who have universal suffrage, know that it is from him, and from him alone, that we hold our democratic legitimacy. To refuse to hold elections at the due date is obviously a heavy act, which can only be decided in the event of force majeure and in a sufficient democratic consensus. As early as February, when I met with the political groups to inform them precisely of the health situation and its consequences, the question of maintaining the municipal vote was raised. At the time, and on the unanimous opinion of the scientific leaders, we considered that this vote could and should be maintained. Therefore, we have systematically asked the specialists about the health conditions of a safe organisation: they have recommended that we make our fellow citizens and those who would have the voting operations carried out the safety instructions and the barrier actions through which contamination can be avoided. In their view, therefore, there was no greater risk of voting than of carrying out other common acts of daily life, such as shopping or using public transport, which were still allowed at that time. On Thursday 12 March, just a few days before the first round of municipal elections and as we decided on the first heavy containment measures, the postponement was again mentioned. The Government has addressed this issue, as is evidently necessary. Thursday, could we decide to postpone the first round of municipal elections? Many of those who were interviewed and consulted – sometimes informally, it is true – told us that, on the basis of the information available to them, they considered that electoral operations could take place, provided that they were well organized and the security instructions properly established and respected. The Scientific Council therefore confirmed its previous analysis. Finally, on Saturday, on the eve of the vote, and as we further tighten the containment measures, we again consulted the experts, who confirmed their recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, what would it have been said if, by a decree taken overnight on the eve of an election, we had cancelled the election, even though the next day, we know, the French, without having fully measured the new constraints, were walking in parks and gardens? It is always difficult to say what would have happened, but it is not impossible that at that time some would have shouted at the blow of force. Imagine that, as some shouted at the blow of force – not all, no doubt – we had to, as was finally the case, proceed to the general confinement? Who here can deny that in addition to a health crisis, it is a political crisis that would have erupted? Technically and healthily, the election went well, and I thank those responsible – the mayors, who organised the elections, the municipal services, who accompanied them, the candidates and all our fellow citizens. For having travelled through several polling stations, like others in this House, I have seen the extreme civic awareness deployed by those who organized them and the calm in which our citizens went to the polls, respecting as much as possible, and often, very strictly, the instructions given to them. However, the strong abstention showed that, as early as Sunday, the concern had caught up with a large number of French. The epidemic, which was at the beginning of the peak, also accelerated, reaching the moment I was referring to earlier. On Monday, after a further consultation of the political forces, we decided to postpone the second round, which the experts of the scientific council recommended. That is why Title I of the bill, at least in the initial version of the Government – since the Senate amended it on this point – was intended to organize the postponement of the second round of municipal elections in the 5000 communes, sectors and metropolitan districts where the first round did not allow the entire deliberative body to be elected. It is useful to be aware that, of the 35,000 French communes, results were obtained from the first round in no less than 30143 communes: it is considerable! However, for all municipalities where the first round did not allow the entire municipal council to be elected, the bill sets the second round for June, provided, of course, that we have contained the epidemic. To ensure this and to anticipate the situation, the Government will submit a report to Parliament on 10 May 2020. It will be based on the observations of the Scientific Council: if everything goes better, we will be able to vote, on the basis of the results of the first round, by the end of June at the latest; If, on the other hand, we were to conclude that the epidemic still makes it impossible to hold the second round in good conditions in June, we would return to Parliament to decide on the best measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u8	They would require the reorganization of municipal elections and, moreover, the extension of the term of office of senators. Indeed, the Senate elections are to be held in September, and if all the municipal councils were not then constituted, the consequences would have to be drawn. It would be up to Parliament to do so, which is why the report which will be submitted on 10 May will also indicate whether it is possible to set up municipal councils in the 30143 communes where the first round of elections has made it possible to elect the whole council. If this installation is possible, it would then take place within a very short period of time, probably within a week of the submission of the report. The solution that I propose to you is based, on the one hand, on the opinion of the president of the scientific council, who, consulted on Thursday, indicated that the health conditions were no longer in place to allow the installation of municipal councils between Friday morning and Sunday – as provided for by the electoral code – and, on the other hand, on a shared analysis of the constraints on us. Through a discussion with the group chairmen and the chair of the Senate Law Commission, this analysis has made it possible to build a solution that seems to me to be simple, clear and reasonable. It implies the extension of the terms of office of the outgoing municipal councillors, which ensures the continuity of the administration of local affairs, and requires the Government to explain its choices to Parliament, at a date agreed by law, in this case on 10 May. It is true that the urgency led us to announce as early as Thursday evening the orientations taken to stay the meetings which, for some, were planned the next day. Without necessarily sharing the solution, I am sure that everyone here understands that there is an urgent need to bring it to the attention of the communes concerned, even if, I admit, this is forcing our discussion today a little bit. As you know, the bill also proposes specific rules to clarify a number of cases, such as that of municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, in which candidates may be elected in the first round without the city council being complete. The text also provides for rules on the proper functioning of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. In view of the changes made in this area, the large size of their advice would of course have made their meeting very difficult in good conditions. For all these situations, the Senate and the National Assembly are seeking pragmatic solutions; I look forward to the idea that we can apply them. I am also thinking of the communities of the Pacific, New Caledonia and French Polynesia, for which we propose a specific regime. The second round of elections could be held at a time different from that decided for the other territories, so as to take into account their health situation. The epidemic spreads around the world and affects territories at different rates; This must therefore be taken into account in the organization of the second round of the election. With regard to all of these provisions, I would like to point out that the discussion in the Senate was marked by a spirit of republican compromise, which has overcome most of the difficulties created by the unprecedented situation in which we find ourselves. However, an important issue remains to be resolved, namely the date of the second round of lists, on which a difference remains: the Government proposes, for realism reasons, that this date be decided after consultation with the political forces and when we are indeed aware of the conditions under which this second round will take place. As a very personal matter, I would add that it seems to me curious to impose negotiations on teams composed of candidates who, for the most part, are confined and probably have a thousand other things in mind. But, like the Senate before you, it will be up to you to discuss it in the Chamber. The second part of the text introduces a state of health emergency. Currently, our law provides two bases for health measures: the general police power of the Prime Minister and article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, on which we have relied, since January, to take all the measures called the crisis. This section allows the Minister of Health to take, in the event of a threat of an epidemic, "any measure commensurate with the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place in order to prevent and limit the consequences of possible threats to the health of the population." Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer faced with a mere threat of epidemics: we are in the battle, and this is just beginning. Therefore, the text I have just mentioned is no longer appropriate, and we felt it necessary for the measure of sustainable containment of our citizens to be based on a specific regime governing temporary restrictions on fundamental freedoms. This new regime will make it possible to highlight the health, not safety, nature of a device that we have not included in the State of Emergency Act 1955, but in the Public Health Code. We are in urgency and unedited, which, in our view, brings with it three consequences. The first is the conditions for triggering the measures provided for in the provisions we are discussing. They are based on the Act of 3 April 1955 on a state of emergency: a decree adopted by the Council of Ministers establishes a state of emergency; its extension beyond a month requires a law. I said before the Senate, and repeat before the National Assembly, that the bill originally provided for Parliament to promulgate the state of emergency after a period of not one month but twelve days, with a view to layering the mechanism of its initiation over that of the state of emergency provided for by the Act of 3 April 1955. The Council of State has suggested that this deadline should be extended to one month, on the basis of the idea that it might be difficult, in the event of a threat of an epidemic, but of a real epidemic, to bring Parliament together in good conditions. This proposal of the Council of State is now included in the text. I say this in order to enlighten the House on this point before it deliberates and takes a decision. On Thursday, the Senate proposed that the coming into force of the bill that you will be considering, ladies and gentlemen, have an equivalent effect to that of such an extension. Basically, we are inventing the state of health emergency regime, and for its implementation, we would consider the bill that you are going to pass to be the one that you should have dealt with 12 days – according to the original bill – or 30 days – according to its version as amended by the Senate – following the publication of the decree made in the Council of Ministers. This enables us to take immediate action in the state of health emergency. It seems to me that this is a good idea. The second consequence concerns parliamentary scrutiny. It is essential, I would like to say in very clear terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u10	That's a good reminder!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u11	We must take the measures that the situation requires. They are in no way light measures. They have far-reaching consequences for our lives – in all the territories of our lives, if I may say so. In these circumstances, the Government needs Parliament, Parliament's control and the degree of demand it has. I'm saying it because I know it. This control is exercised on two levels. First of all, on the text itself. The legal framework we are discussing is unprecedented – therefore necessarily perfectable. The Senate has proposed that the Government should appear before Parliament at least twice at the end of its adoption: two months later, to extend the state of health emergency if necessary, and one year later, to further assess the legal framework that we are building here. These appointments are useful; If your assembly were to retain them, the Government would honour them in the spirit of dialogue and respect for the balance of powers to which I have recalled, of course, being very attached. Planning – in two months and then in a year's time – a parliamentary meeting exclusively devoted to these issues seems to me a good idea. Parliament's control must also be exercised over the measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency, which must be transmitted to it. However, we have a difference of opinion with the Senate on this point. The legislation adopted by the Bill provides that all measures taken pursuant to this Bill shall be subject to such review. The bill contains 43 statutory powers by order. From now on, colossal work has been undertaken to ensure that the most urgent – some 20 – are discussed in the Council of Ministers as soon as next week. Such a delay is very ambitious and very demanding. The effectiveness of this work requires that we be able to devote ourselves to it full-time, if we want to define very quickly the solutions guaranteeing the legal certainty of our citizens, in a period of confinement which will have consequences for the computation and application of regulatory deadlines and, more generally, on the situation of everyone in all areas of social life. That is why we will ask you to tighten the scope of parliamentary scrutiny to include only those measures which are strictly within the scope of the state of health emergency, which will also make it possible to include it in the public health code and to implement it systematically as soon as necessary. Finally, the third consequence of this urgent and unprecedented situation is that it is really very difficult to say in advance what measures will be necessary to deal with the crisis. The very nature of the great contemporary crises is to force us out of the box, to think often, as the specialists say, "out of the box" – or to say in order not to pronounce in this Chamber an English expression that would insult the French language. For this reason, the Government's text gave a fairly broad scope to the measures that could be taken by decree in the event of the outbreak of a state of health emergency. I fully understand the reluctance that this can cause. We are talking about restricting freedom of movement, business and meeting. On Thursday, the Senate tried to draw up a limited list of possible measures. After reviewing the text in committee, we found that it was incomplete, and two sections were added in open session. However, no one can say whether it is now complete. It may be difficult to bring Parliament together urgently as soon as a tool is lacking. I will give some examples. The text adopted by the Senate would not allow us – we did not mention it during its examination, because we discover every hour or almost new issues, which sometimes will have to be resolved by intervening in the field of the law – if necessary, to prohibit travel for professional purposes. Similarly, it would not allow us to shut down all institutions receiving from the public. Nor does it offer the possibility of prohibiting certain imports, or especially certain exports, unless the products concerned are requisitioned, which is not exactly the same, legally and financially. Thus, by the force of things – not because work will not be done, but because reality is infinitely complex – as the epidemic evolves and its consequences for our social life become clearer, we will be obliged to make decisions. That is why we will ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, to retain the possibility of not being included in the list in the Senate and of preserving a form of general jurisdiction clause, which could only apply to general exclusionary measures – that was the meaning of the observations made in the Senate on this subject and of those that some of you will probably make – individual decisions. Of course, we will confine ourselves to the objective of public health and temporary restrictions that we have set ourselves, to the exclusion of any other, and we will place the measures that we will take under the strengthened control of the judge – through an injunction within 48 hours – and of Parliament. Title III of the bill relates to the economic emergency measures and the adaptation of our legal framework to the consequences of the spread of the virus. As I have had the opportunity to say, the health crisis is causing an economic shock of extreme brutality, both in France and in the rest of the world. Thanks to contemporary technologies, some of our citizens – about 8 million – can use telework. Despite the prevailing situation, they continue to move the country forward. I will mention – and particularly welcome – our teachers, who provide educational continuity at a distance – not always, some of them contributing to the care of caregivers' children. All show – I can judge in my family life – an admirable inventiveness and commitment. The lives of businesses are deeply disrupted, in conditions that could undermine the continuity of the nation's economic life. For millions of traders, self-employed workers, employees, performers, thousands of individual businesses and services, throughout the country, in Hexagon and overseas, confinement leads to a sudden break in activity and places our citizens in a critical situation. Revenues have fallen by 50 per cent or even 100 per cent in a wide range of industries, including air transport, accommodation, cultural and sports activities, events, catering and non-food retailing. Therefore, the framework set by the President of the Republic is clear: whatever the cost, we will support our businesses and jobs, as well as the most vulnerable of us. National solidarity will play its role at all levels by limiting the consequences of the health crisis for both businesses and individuals. Our economy must and can overcome this historic challenge. All French must feel that a collective effort is at work. To this end, Title III contains the necessary authorizations to take by order the temporary economic and social measures imposed by the emergency. First of all, we need to take many economic measures, such as supporting the cash flow of businesses and a form of moratorium, for very small businesses, on their rents or their water and electricity bills. The law of collective proceedings will also need to be temporarily adapted to preserve the most affected companies. Secondly, temporary derogations from labour law are provided for, in particular with regard to the limitation of terminations of employment contracts, the use of paid leave and the rules on the rest of employees. In this regard, I wish to be as clear and solemn as possible. The measures we are presenting are temporary. Their application must be strictly limited to the period of health emergency that we are going through. They are not precedents and do not in any way call into question the foundations of our social democracy or our commitment to social dialogue. It is obvious that they cannot go beyond the limits imposed – and rightly so – on national law within the Community framework. Their sole objective is to enable the continuation of work and to stem massive redundancies and the bankruptcies of thousands of companies that would ruin millions of French. Their application will be monitored so as to avoid abuse. Thirdly, we wish to allow the governance of companies, but also of associations and co-ownership trustees, for example, by simplifying the holding of general meetings of all kinds. At a time when confinement and disease complicate the actions of our citizens, we want to preserve their rights, by changing or suspending the time limits of proceedings before civil, criminal and administrative courts. Criminal procedural rules will also need to be adapted to protect the health of professionals and litigants, as well as those in the hands of the judiciary. It is clear from this that confinement, combined with the normal rule of application of the time limits of common law, would change the situation of our fellow citizens by depriving them of a right or by giving them advantages to which they would not be entitled, simply on the ground that we could no longer act as we do in normal times. Fourthly, the draft law includes authorizations to facilitate the custody of children, as well as measures to protect vulnerable persons – job seekers at the end of their rights, beneficiaries of social minimums, persons with disabilities. We also propose to postpone the end of the winter truce, which will allow for the suspension of rental evictions. We kept all emergency accommodation places open and supplemented them with new offers for homeless people. We will be at the side of the smallest companies, which are knitting and animating our territories. We will stand alongside the self-employed and others by promoting the massive use of partial unemployment, which will be made even more protective. We will also be here for the flowers of our industry. As I have had the opportunity to say, in order to save the French productive fabric, we do not exclude anything, not even nationalizations. Our country is fully mobilized. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] All the energy of the State must be devoted to the fight against the epidemic. That is why the President of the Republic has announced that the reforms under way are suspended, including the review and implementation of the universal pension system and the implementation of certain provisions of the unemployment insurance reform. Similarly, it also seemed necessary to suspend, for the period of the health emergency alone, the application of the provisions relating to the day of waiting, in the private sector as well as in the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of urgency, we are forced to propose to Parliament a review of ordinary and organic bills within tight deadlines. I thank you very sincerely for the speed with which you have made a form of sacred union prevail – not on the substance, I would not like to preempt the debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u14	[[Laughs]] Our people are sacred!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u15	[[Smile]] In this serious hour, making his colleagues laugh is never pointless, Mr.President Mélenchon: I thank you for that remark. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for being able to mobilise you for this parliamentary debate. I would like to conclude by thinking of the following, not at all because the present would be simple: it is formidable and it will last but, one day next, all this will end well. We're going through this epidemic and overcome it. I have confidence in this in our health care system and in the courage of the French. We regret too many disappearances – I am thinking of these missing people with emotion and I extend my sad condolences to their families and loved ones – but all those who fight the virus hour after hour do everything they can to minimize its impact. That is why the time after that will also be full of the gratitude we feel for all those, our caregivers, our ambulance workers, our firefighters, our law enforcement agencies, our researchers who work day and night to find remedies. It will be full of the gratitude we feel for those who ensure the continuity of life, who, keeping their calm, invent daily solutions to the difficulties we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, LT, LR, SOC and GDR groups as well as non-attached Members]] As we know, the next time will also be the time for the economic record, probably severe, of the crisis for France, for Europe, for our dear neighbours, our allies, our friends, our cousins, in Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, in Germany, all those countries that surround us and will have to suffer considerable human, economic and social damage. We will have to roll up our sleeves to rebuild what must be, with the momentum, with the hope and with the necessary breath. I know that we can count on our fellow citizens, our institutions, some form of national genius to achieve this. I know that we will overcome this crisis and all our collective efforts aim, even beyond the health emergency, to draw the lessons of this ordeal from now on in order to emerge strengthened, both in our national cohesion and in France's ability to assert itself as a modern nation, solidarity, visionary, as a nation that counts in the contemporary world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u16	I should like to inform you that, at the request of the Committee on Laws, Titles II and III, relating respectively to the state of health emergency and economic emergency measures, will be discussed as a matter of priority. We will then look at Title I, which contains electoral provisions, and Title IV, which deals with parliamentary oversight. Mrs Marie Guévenoux, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u17	We are meeting today in an exceptional context, the limited presence of national representation in the Chamber is sufficient to attest to this. You all know why we're here on a Saturday morning: our country is experiencing the worst epidemic in its recent history. French people have died, others are in intensive care, families are bereaved: we think of them. Our health personnel are fully mobilized in the fight against contamination. State services, security forces, teachers, companies, employees: the list is so long of those who fight the disease in one way or another. In these difficult times, our collective responsibility is only greater. The French people have entrusted us with the task of looking after their interests. We are doing this here in the National Assembly, as the Government is doing in its place, as the Senate has done before us with regard to these bills, with the best possible will and determination. We are considering two bills this morning with a speed that says everything about their importance. Every time France is hit – today by a virus like a few years ago by terrorism – Parliament shows that it knows how to decide what the circumstances require. Wednesday, the Government deliberated on the draft organic and ordinary laws adopted by the Senate on Friday in the early morning; All day yesterday, the Law Commission examined them. The pace is fast: the situation commands it. To deal with the Covid -19 epidemic, these texts have three main objectives: to provide a legal basis for population containment measures by creating a state of health emergency through the provisions of Title II, which the National Assembly wished to consider as a matter of priority; adapting our law, whose rigors designed for peacetimes could threaten the good progress of the country in the conditions of confinement we know – this is the object of Title III and of the draft organic law; Finally, postpone the second round of municipal and community elections, scheduled to take place on 22 March 2020. This is the subject of Title I, which we shall examine last. The President of the Republic, as soon as he was informed by scientists of the real dangers of the epidemic, did not hesitate to take courageous and draconian decisions, which the Government has already partially implemented. Since the beginning of the week, the restrictions on the freedom of movement of the population and the closure of unnecessary shops have demonstrated their determination. The law must now be used to take a new course. That is what we are proposing here, and I have no doubt that all parliamentarians will be inhabited by the responsibility that lies with us. Before I quickly referred to the content of the two bills, I wanted to point out, as the Prime Minister wanted to involve all political groups and parties in these decisions, that the National Assembly and the Senate, as well as the committee yesterday, worked together in a very good atmosphere. That does not mean that we agree on everything. The National Assembly, the deputies we are, did not abdicate their mission. Because the Senate's work, despite its high quality, remained perfect, the Law Committee made amendments to it, which had come from every bench, sometimes to the surprise of their authors themselves. We do not work in the vacuum and look forward to improving as much as possible the devices that are submitted to us. However, almost all of the amendments made by the Senate reached consensus. Senators have adopted many of them either at the initiative of the Government or through informal contacts with the chair of the commission or myself. This is the case, for example, of the quorum rules, the facilitation of the convening of assemblies, the possibility for municipal police officers to verbalize health emergency offences and the temporary nature of the new health emergency regime. I turn to the actual content of the bills in the order of our discussion. Title II of the ordinary bill creates a state of health emergency. Indeed, as the Minister of Health himself has explained, the current legal framework, consisting essentially of articles L. 3131-1 et seq. as well as the theory of exceptional circumstances, is now limited by the measures that are necessary. The current situation therefore requires a specific regime for cases of health disasters. Article 5 of the draft law thus creates a state of health emergency, similar to the state of emergency provided for by the Act of 3 April 1955. It could be declared on all or part of the national territory in the event of a health disaster involving the health of the population by its nature and gravity. The state of health emergency would be declared by decree in the Council of Ministers on the report of the Minister of Health. Its extension beyond one month could only be authorized by law. It could always be terminated by order-in-council in advance. At the same time as the state of health emergency would also cease the effects of the measures taken for its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u18	[[Exclaims]] We must conclude, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u19	It's going to be extremely complicated, Mr. Chairman: I thought I'd have ten minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u20	It's okay! Finish, Madam rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u21	We have no problem with this, Mr President: we unanimously agree to let the rapporteur finish!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u22	That's nice of you, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u23	Go on. But it will not have to be a habit in this debate. I know the house: any concession becomes a right that everyone then claims on his behalf... Don't count on me to support this practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u24	We will be exemplary, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u25	[[Smile]] Come on, Mr. President, you know us...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u26	[[Smile]] Yes, precisely... You have the floor, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. In the event of a declaration of a state of emergency, a scientific committee would be convened without delay. He would periodically make public his opinion on the measures taken by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and the Prefects, if any. Criminal provisions would penalise violations of emergency health provisions. The Senate has substantially changed the conditions for a state of health emergency, in particular at the initiative of Philippe Bas, who proposed by amendment that the text list the measures that may be prescribed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health once the state of health emergency has been declared, listing broad categories of measures to combat the health crisis. This list was supplemented in session by price control measures as well as measures to make available appropriate medicines for the eradication of the epidemic. If I understand the legal logic, we can cast doubts about the operational nature of such a list: you have explained it very well, Mr Prime Minister, and the debates in committee have allowed us to assess the risk that such a list might prove to be incomplete in a situation of an evolutionary nature. We will discuss this issue in a few moments in more depth. In a public meeting, the Senate also adopted an amendment by the Government to provide municipal police officers with jurisdiction to determine violations of the provisions of the state of emergency. The Senate has also, on the initiative of its rapporteur Philippe Bas, adopted an amendment to ensure that the state of health emergency is declared as from the entry into force of the law for a period of two months. It seemed unnecessarily complex in view of the health situation to have to return to Parliament before the maximum period of one month. This provision is therefore justified by the circumstances of the case and will not be intended to reproduce in the future. Finally, at the initiative of its chairman and rapporteur, the Committee on Laws adopted an amendment introducing an additional article after Article 6 to limit the application of the new legal regime for a state of health emergency to 1 April 2021. I would like to focus less on Title III of the ordinary bill, since it essentially consists of authorizations to make orders to enable individuals, businesses and administrations to resist the economic impacts of the crisis. We await clarification and explanation from the Government on the steps it intends to take in this regard, a large part of which I am told would be already written. These rules are intended to apply during the crisis and only during that time. We expect the Government to confirm – as you have already done, Prime Minister – what is only implicit in the bill. The Senate has made very few changes to these provisions and we have adopted only a few specific amendments on them ourselves. Title I of the ordinary bill relates to the postponement of the second round of municipal elections. As you know, scientists felt that the sanitary conditions as they were on Sunday, March 15, did not involve questioning the first round, but their sudden deterioration and rapid growth in the number of contaminations led them to revise their judgement in the days that followed. As a matter of responsibility, the President of the Republic sought to reconcile health and democratic expression. He hoped that the results of the first round would be maintained and that the second round would take place in circumstances more conducive to its success in good conditions: that is the purpose of title I. The system adopted by the Senate with the agreement of the Government has been modified little by the Law Commission. In the communes where the first round allowed the election of the entire city council, these results would be final. In municipalities where, on the contrary, a second round would be necessary to determine who was elected, it would be postponed to June. A scientific report would be submitted to Parliament on 10 May to enable it to verify that the health conditions in force allow it to be held. Otherwise, it would be up to us to reprogram the entire election in all the municipalities concerned and in accordance with the recommendation of the Council of State to start the first round. In the meantime, these municipalities would be managed by the elected municipal officials in office before the first round. This would be the case until the second round in the communes where it would take place and until the improvement of the sanitary conditions in those where the first round was sufficient. Indeed, in view of the fear of the new elected officials to meet in these times of epidemic, it would be irresponsible to convene 30,000 municipal councils on the same weekend. On an exceptional basis, the Senate has adopted a series of measures to facilitate the transition of the administration of the communes, increasing the quorum from one half to one third and the number of authorized proxies from one to two. The adoption of budgets is postponed until July; the extended teams could partially be provided with funds. Technical details, such as the propaganda regime, reimbursement arrangements or the application of those provisions overseas, would be subject to authorization by the Government. The Law Commission has made several amendments to the Senate version. Our main disagreement is with the procedure for declaring nominations and listings for the second round, as the Senate wants to avoid endless negotiations by June. His concern is legitimate, but he would have gained the advantage of favouring an intermediate solution between next week and the beginning of the summer. The discussions of the Law Commission have been rich on this title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u28	It's more than time to conclude...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u29	As I had committed myself to doing so, I have used the last few hours to explore some of the opposition's proposals and find compromise solutions that we can discuss when we consider the provisions of this title. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the bills that we are called upon to consider in a very short time, which is also a troubled time. I emphasized in the preamble the high quality of the consensus and partnership work done in the Senate. We have improved it in a spirit of openness. I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of these provisions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u30	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u31	I will not abuse my speaking time in order, Mr President, not to create case law, and therefore my speech will not exceed five minutes. For several weeks now – and especially for a week now – the Government has been taking action to meet the challenge of the health crisis we face. Everywhere in France, our fellow citizens organize, help each other, support those who fight to save lives. All follow the same direction: responding to the health emergency. It is this compass that has guided our work in committee and that, I know, will continue to guide them in session. We had to be on the rendezvous. It is up to us to vote on the strong measures that the French need, and this in very limited time. That's why we're here. In committee, we went quickly without sacrificing the quality of our work. According to some comments, however, our discussions have been too long, too extensive. I don't agree: we decide when we have a good discussion. And the nine hours we spent yesterday in committee, ladies and gentlemen, as I see you in the Chamber too, have been useful and fruitful. We must not squander this indispensable legislative work. The country needs its institutions and our democracy needs Parliament. I am convinced that we all share this conviction. Our discussions with the Senate have been numerous, as has been recalled by the rapporteur. I have talked at length with my counterpart, Philippe Bas, several times and sometimes late in the night, in order to look for all the ways to reach a consensus. We found them in large part, although there are still some differences between us. I have no doubt that we will succeed in dispelling these differences, because we must all act together in the general interest. They don't seem insurmountable to me. We are used to working with the Senate on joint committees. Of the twenty-seven that we have already gathered, more than 70% have proved to be conclusive. I will put all my energy into reaching an agreement with our colleagues in the Senate, you can count on me. The urgency will command it, and MPs and senators will have to be able to take a step towards each other. I'm insisting on the state of health emergency. At the unanimous request of the political groups, in the Committee on Laws, we wanted to reverse the examination of Titles I and II. Indeed, considering that the priority was the health of the French, it was imperative to address this issue first. Moreover, in view of the conditions for the examination of the text, we did not wish to engrave the state of health emergency in the marble of law. We must move quickly because we need it and the Government needs to secure all the measures taken in the interests of the French for their health protection; But it was not conceivable to create, under these conditions, a permanent state of emergency different from that provided for by the 1955 Act. That is why I have proposed to our honourable senators that we be guided by the legislation that strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as the SILT Act, which provides for what is called a sunset clause, a sunset clause. We have agreed and have therefore introduced such a provision in this text, so that the state of health emergency will end in a year's time. Thus, after assessing its effectiveness, taking the time to audition all the associative and governmental actors, the prefects who have applied it, we will be able to determine under what conditions we can perpetuate it in law. Parliament is therefore ready to play its monitoring and evaluation role, as you have just wished, Prime Minister. In conclusion, I would like to thank the services of the House, which have provided extraordinary work. I thus have at my disposal a report of more than forty pages, complete, of quality, which was written in just two days. Also, really, thank you to all the administrators, thank you to all the staff of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u32	And to our collaborators!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u33	...as well as our collaborators, indeed. [[Isabelle Florennes applauds]] Yesterday, at 20.00 p.m. in committee, we joined with all the French to applaud the caregivers. I also thank the usual interlocutors of the Law Commission, all of whom are very involved: law enforcement officers, police officers, gendarmes, firefighters or prison guards, who are doing a remarkable job. I therefore hope that we will have a good debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u34	In the joint general discussion, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u35	I would never have thought of having to speak in such a historical context, in this almost empty Chamber, on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group. I have first of all, of course, a thought for all the French, all engaged in this race against the clock. I would like to thank them for their efforts, to say good courage and to assure them that we are obviously trying to stay tuned to them, with the means at our disposal, in this case the media. I would like to thank the medical profession, which takes risks, for telling it how grateful the nation is for its commitment. Never, perhaps, will the word "call" have had such meaning. I also have a thought for all those who work to ensure that life continues, who work without protection, taking risks too. I want to thank them and tell them how much we are affected by their determination. I am also thinking of the history of our country, of the history of Parliament, which has overcome many crises through solid institutions, thanks to a deep-rooted democracy, thanks to political figures concerned with national unity. We are gathered, and you have said it very well, Prime Minister, to work in three directions. Are the economic measures you are considering, particularly important, sufficient and appropriate? We will never hold you, Prime Minister, neither today nor in the coming weeks, to the approximations of decisions taken under the difficult conditions that we are experiencing. We must adapt constantly. We want to ensure that these economic measures, in all the territories, respond to the concerns of all the actors affected by this immense crisis. We will then decide on measures of deprivation of liberty. How to apply them, how to firmly frame them? You will understand, Prime Minister, our vigilance in this matter. We intend to remain in the rule of law and we do not forget that the countries emerging from this health crisis are not necessarily the most authoritarian but major democracies such as South Korea or Taiwan, which have succeeded in taking appropriate measures in accordance with democratic rules, transparency and dialogue. It is a real challenge: we will succeed collectively or we will fail. Finally, we will take steps to ensure the proper functioning of our institutions. Local governments must continue to function, and it is important to make collective decisions with their officials and, of course, with senators. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make two wishes. The first is that our discussions are concise. I was very struck by a journalist's comment this morning that some of our discussions were about an argument about the sex of angels. It must be said that it was a little more expert daily than we were about angels since it is La Croix, but still... We are listened to by many more of our fellow citizens than we can think, who can see that we are ensuring the serenity of our debates, that we are seeking consensus with the Senate. My second wish is for national unity to continue. A few days ago, I even dreamed of a government of national unity. We must work collectively, enrich ourselves with our differences in order to collectively find answers to the crisis. To that end, we need to learn to speak to us better – you have begun to do so, Prime Minister, and I thank you for that – and we need to learn to say "we" rather than "I", because it is together that we will succeed for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u36	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u37	Finally, and finally, Mr President, when we do politics, we want to ensure the happiness of all our fellow citizens. Today, happiness means ensuring that life is preserved,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u38	Thank you, Mr. Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u39	[[Charles de Courson applauds]] ...and I have no doubt that together we will achieve this noble goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u40	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u41	We measure the weight of the responsibilities that weigh on your shoulders, Mr. Philippe, placed you in front of your conscience, in front of all those who are affected by your decisions. And this applies to all those who have decisions to make, in all places and under all circumstances, as is the case with health personnel up to each hospital room. To them all and to you, we will not just say good courage; We want to assure you that we will always be in the public interest. We are and will remain a political opposition, but we practice this opposition without acrimony and with vigilance and demand. Let us remember all the time that freedom of conscience and critical mind are lights for decision-making rather than embarrassment. We know that the peak of the epidemic is ahead of us. We have eight to ten days left to reach what, for the time being, is expected to be a maximum. What we have to do in the meantime is quite clear. The aim of containment and barrier actions is to slow down the spread of contamination which, for the rest, is inevitable. Slow down so that the point of saturation of hospital equipment does not arrive. It is in order to achieve this objective that we fight: to prevent saturation and, for this, all means, without barging, must be mobilized, willingly or forcefully. Thus the mobilization and extension of the health reserve, the public requisition of all private means of health, the nationalization of failing companies: I am thinking of Luxfer, in Clermont-Ferrand, which produces oxygen bottles for medical use and which its shareholder has decided to close, while the general confederation of labour, the CGT, and the staff have declared themselves willing to re-start it to immediately resume production. We need planning that, Prime Minister, dispels rumours. We need to plan the production of millions of masks, breathers and tests if we agree on the nature of these tests, and we do so quickly. There will never be too many because, when we are done with the needs of the French, we will have to run to the rescue of the other peoples; I think especially of all those in the French-speaking area. It is also necessary to secure the social situation of people, to secure their wages, their housing, their basic supplies, so that they consent to the discipline to which they are called. Finally, it is necessary to impose workplace meetings of staff with trade unions, yes, because trade unions are the best experts to know what are the right health measures to continue production and exchange in the best conditions of personal safety. The unity of action of the people is the essential means at our disposal in a situation of common peril. Prime Minister, this discipline and unity are not acquired by order. Think of the strength of the symbols: to refuse the restoration, even temporary, of the solidarity tax on wealth, makes it more difficult to demand additional efforts from those who are announced that they will confiscate days of leave or whose length of working time will be reduced. Everyone must make an effort in proportion to the means at his disposal: those who have the most are called to give the most. We are in a state of health emergency. Why not? In our view, there was no legal vacuum, but we agree to help you. But where did you get the idea to postpone the deadline for referral to Parliament from 12 days to a month? The assemblies are not too much! We are ready, day and night, as soon as we are summoned, to come and deliberate. Our Republic is a social republic. Social rights should not be the only adjustment variable in difficult times. You told us about the world: well, the next world has to start now. It is now that the catechism of social selfishness must cease. The time has come to place the general interest, mutual aid and solidarity at the top of the hierarchy of norms, rather than the competition, free and undistorted, of everyone against all. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Colleagues, we will all change a lot during the period that begins. But the most important thing is to change your mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u42	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u43	In my turn, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I have a thought for the bereaved families, for the sick, for all those who are at the front to fight the virus and especially for public health workers. But you have to think of everyone: I therefore also have a thought for those who have nothing, for those who are in total deprivation, people without fixed homes or popular families, who live in the promiscuity of small, sometimes unhealthy apartments and for whom confinement is all the more difficult. Since the beginning of the crisis, our political family has welcomed the Government's attitude, its transparency and the involvement of parliamentary groups and political forces in a number of decisions. I wish to reiterate our commitment to democratic life. The history of a country like France is that of the Republic, that of the sovereign people. We are not an authoritarian regime; We're even the opposite. We therefore believe that the pursuit of democratic life – whether it be political democracy or social democracy – is a sine qua non for overcoming this ordeal and ensuring that the whole people adhere to the measures and behaviour that must be adopted. We agree with the emergency measures you are advocating. But, while supporting them, we want democratic control and the association of political forces to continue. We will therefore make several proposals to reconcile the adoption of emergency measures with the association of political and social forces. If we understand that the country is in a state of health emergency, we do not understand why the amending finance bill that we examined the day before yesterday, nor the emergency bill that is before us today, do not release any emergency financial resources for the public hospital, which was already in great pain and suffering and is even more so as a result of the epidemic. The President of the Republic said: "No matter what it costs". But, in public hospitals, you have to do with what you have, that is, very little. I come to Title III of the bill. Like political democracy, social democracy requires harmony, and all French people, whether employers or employees, are ready to roll up their sleeves to fight the virus. Do not therefore take discretionary measures, authoritarian or infringing on social law, which would be at the exact opposite of the French state of mind. Yesterday, the trade union federations of employees and the employers' trade union organisations signed a joint declaration, in which they expressed their readiness to deal with the situation together. Let us take up the challenge and meet expectations by favouring branch agreements, which can be concluded within as short a time frame as it took to bring Parliament together. It must be said that if all our fellow citizens agree to deal with the situation, they must still be given the means to do so, particularly from a security point of view. In many sectors, professionals are ready to go to work, but the safety conditions do not allow them, because they do not have masks, because confinement is not respected, because the basic safety measures we observe in the Chamber are not possible for garbagemen, deliverymen, truckers or workers from certain companies in the sectors considered essential. Finally, we welcome the fact that the titles of the bill have been reversed to put electoral matters at the end of the bill, as we proposed. Let's not make it a debate. The Prime Minister was right to say that the continuation of the first round had undoubtedly avoided a political crisis, but we must at all costs prevent another political crisis from erupting tomorrow. If I leave aside the questions relating to the second round voluntarily, I repeat that we will be committed to ensuring that the results of the first round, which have enabled the municipal councils to be elected in 60% of the municipalities, are confirmed by all possible means.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u44	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u45	The time will come again when, in a few weeks, we can shake hands. The time will come when we can find our parents, grandparents, families and friends, hold them in our arms and kiss them. It will come back, the time of shared happiness and simple fraternity to be together. But today, fraternity passes through distance. The French are far away, but they are united in the test: #rest yourself. My generation grew up hearing, "Get out covered! ", and that remains relevant. But for our children, it will be: "Stay at home. When the resuscitation beds are already busy, going out for another reason than going to work or shopping is putting yourself in danger and, above all, putting others in danger. We must show responsibility and unity. It doesn't matter, Mr. President Mélenchon, that it is not sacred, if it is concrete and daily. We are in a health war, and each of us can be resistant in his own way. When you're a caregiver, being resistant is saving lives. When you're confined, being resilient means respecting distance, which also saves lives. When you are active, being resilient means turning the country around, going to work to allow the French to live and caregivers to focus on their essential mission. And, when we are parliamentarians, when we have the honour of representing and serving our fellow citizens, and especially today, when we have the heavy responsibility to represent, to some, all the others, to whom I address fraternal thought, the responsibility is to give the Government the means to act quickly. In this regard, I commend the senators and members of all benches who have worked in a spirit of unity. The test we are going through has no recent precedent. "Pests and wars find people as destitute as ever," wrote Camus. It is precisely so that they do not fail that the bill proposes a new legal framework, which will enable rapid and effective action to be taken in response to the health emergency. The containment and requisition measures provided for are necessary, provisional and proportionate. It is also to ensure that they do not go unnoticed that the text proposes that the Government be given the means to adapt our economic, social and financial law quickly and temporarily so that the country can keep up with the shock. It is therefore a text of confidence in the Government, but also democratic control by Parliament. We write a right that did not exist, because the authors of our law had not imagined the circumstances that we are experiencing today. The bill takes the necessary steps to ensure that all the energies of the country are devoted to the fight against the health and economic crisis. Anything that does not contribute to it must be suspended. The President of the Republic has already announced that he is suspending the reforms; It is also our responsibility to suspend the electoral process of the current municipal elections. I therefore welcome the wise decision of the Senate, which agreed to postpone the date for the municipal councils: it was a difficult but responsible decision. However, I note our disagreement with the upper chamber regarding the filing date of the lists for the second round. Indeed, I do not believe that the time is ripe for political negotiations, for the discussion of alliances and mergers for a second round, which we hope, without being able to guarantee, will take place before 30 June. I am convinced that our fellow citizens would not understand that political formations are devoting their energy to this discussion. I regret that an agreement could not be reached earlier, but I hope that we will reach an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee. In these difficult days, ladies and gentlemen, we sometimes see the worst – those who steal masks and who will have to be punished for it – but also the best, with initiatives that warm up the heart, drawings on the windows, platforms for linking up new solidarity and citizens who engage each day a little more. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LT, UDI-Agir and LR groups as well as among non-attached MPs. – Mr. Christophe Bouillon also applauds]] I would therefore like to devote my remaining time to applause with you those who are on the front line. Thank you to the caregivers who save lives, thank you to those who will work, thanks to whom there is water in our taps, thanks to which our waste does not accumulate on the bearings or in front of the houses, thanks to which the parcels are delivered, the essential stores are opened, the coats of the caregivers are washed and disinfected, thanks to which the country keeps good. Thank you to them, thank you to them. That is what must remain: fraternity and the spirit of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u46	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u47	We are all here as deputies of the nation, a nation that we want to bring together and mobilise in these special circumstances. For my part, I am also present as a member of parliament for the Haut-Rhin, a department that has to deal, before the others, with the acceleration of the epidemic due to a local epiphenomenon – a particularly dense home due to the gathering of 2500 people in Bouxwiller –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u48	A religious gathering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u49	...which exceeded the capacity of the health system and spread the virus throughout France. I am thinking of the health and non-care workers of the hospitals in Mulhouse, Colmar and Strasbourg, who are currently experiencing the most difficult aspect of their profession. They face the situation, because they have the vocation and they have committed themselves to saving lives, but they do so under difficult or even inhuman conditions that we do not wish to any caregiver. What they see today, unfortunately, others will see tomorrow; other hospitals will face the same difficulties, and I can see how strong and heavy our responsibility to stem the epidemic is. In this period, it is not a question of mobilising by means of a rostrum in this Chamber or by other political effects, but of building a strategy based on dignity, respect, commitment and demand. You will find, Prime Minister, our group at your side to give you the means to fight this epidemic, because the French deserve our mobilization and we are taking action. Who would have thought that our assembly should face such a threat in 2020? Now, an enlightened, modern and scientific nation must face an invisible and sneaky, yet devastating threat. But it is in these moments that the great nations are revealed, and there are many examples in our territories of these gestures of daily life as well as of these emergency gestures, of this mobilization which demonstrate how great the French nation is: I am of course thinking of all the healthcare personnel – I say this to the Minister of Health here – but also to the personnel indispensable for the functioning of the nation, among others to our police forces, but also to those who ensure the daily lives of the French, whether they are cashiers in supermarkets or roadmen who transport between production points and distribution points. I am also thinking of companies, which, for many of them, must continue to operate because, although their production activity may seem secondary, it is decisive in certain chains, bearing in mind that it is absolutely necessary to preserve the pharmaceutical and agri-food sectors. For all war is won by logistics, all war is won by the rear lines and by the ability of a nation to mobilize its production tool and its population to feed the front. Prime Minister, this is not the time for controversy, but the time for urgency. And in order to avoid any controversy, we will leave throughout the examination of these texts on the assumption that they are based on the idea that our country will emerge from the crisis in a few weeks' time. It is therefore not the time today to open further discussions which would aim to develop other hypotheses: it is time to build a strategy to get out of the crisis in a few weeks, and it is good to discuss it in the urgency that you will find us next to you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Finally, I would point out that we are all here in the Chamber of the National Assembly, one of the most symbolic places of French democracy and even of democracy at large, and we are surrounded by symbols of order and freedom. We must also honour them, pay tribute to them, and thus always know how to preserve in our discussions what is so dear to the French: their freedom. For it is indeed a matter of keeping it to them in this difficult time, knowing that it is from this freedom that their mobilization will emerge. That is how we will collectively mobilize them together to defeat this virus, defeat this threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u50	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u51	First of all, I wish to address my thoughts to our compatriots who, affected by the Covid-19, are fighting every day against the disease. My thoughts also go to their loved ones, who accompany them as they can in this period of confinement. I would like to reiterate our gratitude and express our thanks to the caregivers whose self-denial makes us admire them. I would also like to express my gratitude to the forces of law and order who are mobilised to ensure full containment and basic actions, as well as to all our fellow citizens who are pursuing missions without which the success of the country would no longer be assured. The situation we are experiencing is unprecedented in many ways and time is playing against us. Therefore, in order to stop the spread of the virus, the necessary measures must be taken to combat it, to protect our compatriots and to limit, as far as possible, the economic disaster which awaits. From this perspective, the use of orders appears to be the most effective and appropriate means of action. The scope of the ordinances was broad, since it was not a matter of blocking the Government in an unprecedented context, but only of framing its means of action. It is this balance between the demand for public action and the legislative framework that our House must guarantee. To this end, it shall delegate to the executive the means to manage the state of health emergency. I therefore turn to the proposed measures, which are structured around three axes which correspond to the three aspects of the crisis: the health aspect, the economic aspect and the democratic aspect. The first part is the most important for us – I thank you, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, for allowing it to be examined at the beginning of the sitting – because, on the one hand, it lays the foundations of the state of health emergency, an institutionally and democratically secure framework, since it incorporates those of the common state of emergency established after the attacks of 2015 – on the understanding that we will have to debate the duration of this state of emergency – and, on the other hand, it gives a legal existence to the Committee of Scientists, which will play a decisive role in informing the decision-making of the Government and thus enabling us to take the most appropriate measures, its opinions being valuable to us in our further work on the management of this crisis. The economic side also has our full support: I am thinking in particular of the EUR 45 billion in direct or indirect aid to businesses and their employees through a carry-over of essential burdens to ensure the sustainability of the economic fabric. The planned postponement of the payment of water, gas and electricity bills, as well as rents for smaller businesses, was also necessary. Similarly, I noted the creation of a solidarity fund to help these companies, the self-employed and micro-enterprises, or the simplification of the use of partial activity. Finally, of course, we agree with the measures aimed at older persons, persons with disabilities or poverty, who will be able to continue to receive their social benefits. All these emergency measures are a short-term response adapted to the situation we face. But they must be part of a long-term policy that involves, as the President of the Republic has said, thinking about the future of our economic model, which has not been able to value local skills. Our country has a variety of exceptional assets; It is to be hoped that this crisis will bring our economic model and the use of our talents to a halt so that they can be valued. I will not dwell on the electoral arrangements: if they are certainly important for the continuity of our democratic life, they may seem derisory in the light of the situations experienced by our fellow citizens. We will have an opportunity to discuss it. It is not up to our group to rush things while the campaigns are suspended and the date of the second round not yet fixed. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Colleagues, these bills must enable us to meet the challenge of the pandemic, allow us to act now to ensure our future, to allow us to show solidarity and fraternity. We have never been so separated and at the same time so dependent on each other. This crisis must remind us of one thing: we are all responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u52	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u53	First of all, I would like to have a thought for those of our fellow citizens affected by the disease and for the bereaved families. I would also like to extend our infinite gratitude to the caregivers, whose unwavering mobilization forces admiration, and thank all the public service agents and all those, workers, artisans, cashiers, garbagemen, handlers, delivery drivers, electricians, postal workers and gas workers, that is to say all those at work and at work today to keep the country standing. By hearing the French applaud our caregivers each evening against the Covid-19, everyone feels how much democracy is also a fraternity, a civic sense, a virtue, a moral practice. The French accepted the sacrifices, acquiesced in authority, made compromises, mobilized and joined the ranks. The gravity of the circumstances dictates it. Everyone accepts it. In the test perhaps even more than at any other moment, democracy must remain demanding and scrupulous, and national unity must be made around this imperative: nothing or anyone can suggest that democracy is the weakest of regimes to face the perils. Our presence here today must bear witness that democracy is a weapon in this war. Overcoming the tension between the necessary authority of the Government in exceptional circumstances – for this war, our country must win it! – and the continuity of democratic life, without yielding anything from national unity, is the challenge we must address in debating today. Crisis management needs unity and democratic acquiescence. Each of the subjects before us must bring us back to this double requirement. The establishment of a state of health emergency, of which the Socialist and related groups understand the spirit, must lead to a balance between the maintenance of public order and the protection of health on the one hand, and the protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms on the other. It is for our group a demand as great as the crisis itself. Let us say this: the bill, in its original wording, had not found this balance, and we must, in a dialogue with the executive in all political sensitivities, resist the temptation to introduce exceptions to exceptional legislation. The Senate, on this point, has considerably improved the Government's draft without in any way preventing diligent action by the executive because, by making this text the vehicle for triggering the state of emergency, it allows Parliament to define and validate the conditions for its entry into force. Similarly, by listing the precise measures relating to the state of emergency in black and white, Parliament is fully exercising its role as legislator with regard to respect for the principle of proportionality of the exceptional powers thus devolved. By providing Parliament with a level of control over the Government's exercise of these exceptional powers comparable to that provided for by the 1955 Act, the balance of powers will be preserved, as well as by the provision providing for the termination of the system on 1 April 2021. We fully support the work of the High Assembly and want to believe that the Government and the majority will proceed wisely. As far as economic and social emergency measures are concerned, if we accept many of the announcements they have given rise to, we must note that they refer to very broad, sometimes imprecise and often exorbitant orders in economic, social and institutional terms. If one understands the need, such orders clearly raise the question of the place of Parliament and the social partners, and more generally the question of the functioning of our institutions in crisis situations – perhaps a special committee sitting on a long-term basis, in each chamber, could it have filled this office with the same diligence. The measures will, we are told, be temporary, without being completely certain, but if you reassure us that they will not exceed the duration of the crisis itself. In any event, they must be strictly necessary and proportionate, especially when it comes to the social rights of French and French women or derogations from the Labour Code. We owe the French protection under all circumstances and in all matters, including economic or social. Thus, derogations from working time or taking days off cannot, in our view, be a unilateral decision of employers: collective agreements, a procedure which the social partners demand in unison, seem to us to be at least necessary. Finally, the new electoral arrangements must allow the Republic to continue with the daily life of our mayors and ensure that the vote that took place last Sunday is respected. Because yes, there was a vote and, from the first round, 300,000 municipal councillors were elected in nearly 30,000 communes. Next Sunday, they won't settle down. We agree with the scientific council because we have a sense of responsibility and concern for the health of our fellow citizens, but we cannot ignore the need, even more so in this crisis, for the mobilization of all and, first and foremost, of this formidable network of elected officials, which is breaking our territory and ensuring the continuity of the Republic. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Yes, we must take care of the French, take care of France, but also take care of the Republic. That is the meaning, Mr Prime Minister, of the amendments which the Socialists defended yesterday in the Senate and of those which they will support today in the Assembly, with the demanding respect, and I am sure shared, of the national unity in democracy, which will also be your strength in this war. The danger is common to us, the struggle will be common to us. France, our great nation, will overcome this ordeal and show the best of itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u54	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u55	It's spring, but no one's talking about it. All minds are busy elsewhere, tending to those who care for us, to those who are looking for remedies that would relieve us of the dark perspectives that you have drawn, Prime Minister, perspectives that reflect a necessary language of truth. That is why all the French must observe the instructions of "social distancing" – a somewhat barbaric expression that simply means keeping distances between each other to protect each other – which also requires that we be able to gather in this Chamber in the face of such an epidemic. You and we have a responsibility to find urgent ways to better protect France and the French from the health consequences of this epidemic, but also from its economic, social and democratic consequences. That is the purpose of the bill or of the bills that you are asking us to consider today, a day of equinox – the day when night, with its fears, and the day, with its hopes, are equal, and hope is not there yet. It is up to us to try to build it, trying to avoid the worst. In this text, you first propose that we create a state of health emergency. We will fully support you, including without the restrictions that the Senate has intended to impose. Prime Minister, we will not be able to legislate at the speed of spread of the virus. I therefore suggested last week to President Ferrand that we should be able to vote for very broad powers to legislate by ordinances, to enable the Government to deal with the situation: we see that we are legislating in a degraded way and that, despite everything, it takes time. That's for the first thing. However, Prime Minister, this state of health emergency needs to be revisited. The Senate has provided for this provision, which seems to us to be very good, and it will be necessary for the Conference of Presidents of our House to be able to launch a commission of inquiry to improve the legislation that we are adopting – because, because of its speed, it will by definition have its imperfections. The second important provision of your text is the very broad authority given to the Government to make orders to deal with economic and social consequences, as well as measures of various kinds, including regulations, in the area of childcare or the opening of a particular care facility. These orders are necessary. However, Prime Minister, we have a request to make. As many of the speakers who have spoken have said, this means that for some time we are depriving ourselves of the capacity to make the law. Of course, the ordinances will have to be ratified at a later date, but it is well known that ratifications are never debated. You said earlier that you needed Parliament, and I think so too. This means that we must be able to work via videoconference so that parliamentary groups can, if not amend the ordinances – which would be unconstitutional – be involved in their drafting. This is what Nicole Belloubet accepted for the 1945 order, and it works well. This is all the more necessary, Prime Minister, given that we have seen an example of the verbalization of irresponsible behaviour, since the text reserved for police officers and gendarmes: without Parliament – in this case the Senate – the municipal police could not have done so, at the same time as you want to increase the repression of these behaviors that put us all in danger. This is an example of what Parliament can do. Indeed, the administration, which has its qualities and skills, and which is working very hard at the moment, cannot always embrace all the situations that we face more widely. Moreover, overseas countries and territories must be included in all economic arrangements, including Polynesia and New Caledonia, since those issues were their responsibility and national solidarity must play its full part. Finally, these ordinances can only be temporary: I imagine that the Government is committed to ensuring that, immediately after the crisis, all legislative provisions return to the former rule of law, because it is only a matter of going through the storm. A word about the democratic consequences of the crisis. You were right to organise the first round of the municipal elections, since the scientists said it was possible, and to cancel the second round, since they explained to us, when you brought us together, that it was impossible to do so under satisfactory sanitary conditions. The postponement of municipal councils is a good decision, but, in my personal capacity and as I have already told you, Prime Minister, I disagree with you on one point: where the elections have not been concluded and the municipal councils have not been elected in full, it is not possible to organize a democratic election in the second round three months after the first. The conditions will have changed so much that the dissociation of the first and second rounds will indeed have the effect of vitiate these elections. We should have chosen to replay the first round in these communes which, moreover, are much more disputed, since the result was not conclusive with a lower participation rate. One last request, Mr. Speaker, about the organic bill, which we did not talk about much during the presentation of these texts. Prime Minister, many of the measures we are taking violate freedoms, and that is necessary in order to guarantee the security of the French. The Organic Bill provides that the review of QPCs, the priority issues of constitutionality, will be postponed for several months. I would like the Government to accept an amendment to postpone all non-priority QPCs, with the sole exception of those relating to provisions of the text that we are going to adopt this weekend. Indeed, it would be dramatic if we were to pass an organic bill that would prevent the emergency bill from being the subject of priority constitutional issues. It is a necessity to ensure the balance between our fundamental freedoms and the need to secure the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u56	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u57	Prime Minister, you are asking us to vote on this law to give you exceptional powers. The crisis requires that your government be empowered to act quickly and forcefully. This session, and this is the honour of our democracy, is important to put it frankly, with the sole aim of building the best possible policy to save as many lives as possible. Exceptional powers, yes, but what for? That is the question that many French people are asking themselves. For weeks, health professionals have been at the front and alert you to the gap between words and deeds. Worse, they are increasingly asking public questions about the consistency of your policy. The health specialist of a large evening newspaper that is usually favorable to you sums up while writing: "In essence, everything happens as if the political authorities had accepted the idea of a widespread and homogeneous spread of the virus throughout the country. Nothing is more dangerous. He adds, in conclusion of his article: "Rather than strictly applying the essential rules of public health on the basis of epidemiological arguments now well known, serious material, logistical deficiencies are masked by so-called medico-scientific arguments with variable geometry. The masquerade continues. Unfortunately, everything is said. The French discover with fear, by counting their deaths, the bankruptcy of the state which, between 2011 and 2015 – it was not you – dipped its stock of masks, the contradictory statements of the ministers and the disorganisation of the services. Let's be lucid: the first battle was lost. Let us not resign, of course, however. Let's just try to understand the causes. Know how to challenge yourself to change strategy and organization, and win this war together. I will of course vote for this emergency health law, but I beg you to change doctrine, rhythm, organization and speech, because it is the only way to reassure our compatriots, restore confidence and win war. First of all, we need to change our doctrine by generalizing tests so that we can isolate infected people who do not know they are. The example of South Korea, the WHO recommendation, the World Health Organization, and the appeals of all specialists must lead you to change your pace, to increase testing opportunities, especially for the exposed professions and in the regions that are now the least affected. You also need to change your organization and speech on masks, because no one understands anything about them anymore. How can we win a war when the soldiers don't have helmets or ammunition? Health care professionals receive masks that are not the right ones at the dropper. Why didn't you use or not use the army today to distribute these famous masks? The police officers, who are responsible for enforcing confinement, were instructed to remove their masks when they had them. Since the first meeting in Matignon, I alert you to the urgency of mass production. The Minister of Health replied yesterday that France produced 8 million masks a week and the Director General of Health gave last night the figure of 6 million, but how many FFP2 masks are produced for the protection of caregivers? Moreover, if there are 2 million health workers and professionals exposed – including firefighters, gendarmes and bus drivers – with four masks per day, this requires the production of 8 million masks per day, not a week. Many textile factories that could be converted are at a standstill. What are the means you will make available to multiply by ten the production of masks, without which confinement will not have the necessary efficiency? Your government must stop saying that masks are useless. No scientific or medical authority supports such a misconception. Some Asian countries have been able to curb the epidemic, or at least curb it – I am thinking of Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong – using massive masks. On January 24, the DGH, the Director General of Health, promoted masks in the same way, after changing its mind. Without massive distribution of masks, I repeat, confinement and its sacrifices will not have the desired effects. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Finally, it is essential to ensure that containment is respected. Be careful, however, not to double standards. Be careful to avoid the overbidding of honest citizens who, everywhere in France, respect and sacrifice themselves for the common good, when one leaves, in some neighborhoods, rascals and thugs dissuade the police from acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u58	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u59	Your time has expired!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u60	The images we see are terrible! I therefore ask you to take all the necessary measures and, in particular, to establish a state of emergency, or at least a curfew, so that our honest citizens living in these neighbourhoods do not suffer the law of a minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u61	We can see you don't live there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u62	So I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u63	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u64	I'm finishing, Mr. President. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, why the Central Military Pharmacy and the General Agency for Health Equipment and Products are not yet mobilized to prepare us for possible disruptions in the supply of medicines and medical equipment. I've been asking you for weeks! Should we not anticipate shortages of certain medicines? What are you going to do to put some factories back into operation that are so lacking in the nation today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u65	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u66	At the request of the committee, we are suspending the meeting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u67	[[The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m. with Mr Sylvain Waserman in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u68	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u69	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the emergency bill to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. A total of 242 amendments were tabled on this text. In view of the fact that the Committee on Laws has sat for more than eight hours to consider a hundred amendments, which has made it possible to enrich and sustain the debate, I invite you very respectfully, and with due respect for the democratic debate, to exchange mainly on the essential points, in order to possibly be more concise on those which you consider to be less priority. I would remind you that, at the request of the Law Committee, we are considering as a matter of priority the articles in Titles II and III of the bill, relating respectively to the state of health emergency and the measures of economic emergency and adaptation to the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic. In view of the exceptional rules applicable to the presence in the Chamber, I would point out that an amendment may be supported by any of the members of the group to which its first signatory belongs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u70	Article 4 is not the subject of any amendment, but some of you wish to speak. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u71	Article 4 is important, as it is the first article of Title II on the state of health emergency. We unanimously wished to begin our work in session with this subject, which is both essential and comprehensive. Title I, on electoral arrangements, is of course important for our local authorities and for the decentralized organisation of the Republic, but it concerns more specific arrangements. This article makes it possible to legitimize the action of the Government in a large number of situations; it establishes a state of health emergency. Its priority review shows what our first concern is and illustrates the collective will to resolve the unprecedented health crisis we are facing today. Article 4 derives from all the powers a little, if not very exceptional – they are in any case derogating from the ordinary law – conferred on the Prime Minister, members of the Government and certain administrations and communities. It's not nothing! In a number of cases, it will be a matter of restricting the freedom to go and come, of waiting for the freedom to undertake, of waiting at times for individual and collective freedoms, or rather of limiting them – the term may be better chosen. We have some different approaches to the Prime Minister's powers. To draw up a list of these powers would, in our view, make it possible to avoid giving the latter a real white-seing. There will have to be controls by Parliament and the courts. We will discuss all these issues in the coming hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u72	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u73	I would gladly begin my speech with a protest against the width of our tablets... Article 4 opens Title II, on the state of health emergency. I will not hide our extreme mistrust in this regard. However, we are prepared to grant you the vote on this provision today, as long as you expect us to discuss it at a later stage. Our mistrust is linked to two reasons, and I want them to be well understood. The first is the incredible extent of the powers given to the Government. We are told that in the face of an exceptional situation, the duration of which cannot be foreseen, exceptional measures are necessary. No and no: there are already ways to deal with this situation. Parliament may be convened at any time to vote on additional provisions. Your bill provides for the National Assembly to be consulted on the extension of this state of emergency beyond a period of one month, not more than twelve days, as is usually the case with the state of emergency. We don't understand why. In addition, we keep a bad memory of the previous state of emergency, which had been set up to deal with a terrorist risk – for a month first, then for two, three, four, five months! The Prime Minister had eventually explained that since one could not live permanently in the exceptional context of the state of emergency, certain measures had to be introduced into the ordinary law. Thus, measures aimed at terrorists have been applied to all. The statistics have also shown that the people who have most often been the subject of arrests, police custody and travel bans have been environmental and trade union activists! So you need to understand why we are so suspicious about the different types of states of emergency and these methods. Two re-visiting clauses are now provided for; I'm not hiding from you that on the first of these occasions, we will refuse to follow you. But today, we have chosen to accompany you to demonstrate our good will. However, we will not do so on all the provisions you are asking us to vote today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u74	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u75	We fully understand that, in the current circumstances, the Government needs to take exorbitant measures under ordinary law. We find ourselves in an exceptional situation, obviously calling for exceptional measures, and there is evidence that sometimes authority is needed to enforce certain health measures. But we must strike a balance between respect for public order, the preservation of the health of our fellow citizens and the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights. However, the version of the text proposed by the Government does not seem to us to meet that balance. I am not a specialist on the subject, but I wonder: did not the State of Emergency Act 1955 and the theory of exceptional circumstances already allow the Government to take a large number of measures? This was demonstrated when, in the very early hours of this crisis, measures were taken on such a legal basis. In these circumstances, first of all, we want to see the system lapsed: we cannot create an ex nihilo legal system in 48 hours and vote on it definitively when we are less than 30 parliamentarians in the Chamber. Secondly, we need a precise list of the provisions that the state of health emergency permits. For the rest, there is always the theory of exceptional circumstances. The 1955 Act, which is well known, provides very precisely for the measures that may be required. It is a guarantee of the balance that I refer to. The question then arises of parliamentary scrutiny, which is essential. In 2015, the majority in the National Assembly decided to entrust to the Law Commission the powers of a commission of inquiry to assess, in the long term, the measures decided under the state of emergency. We could now collectively resume this requirement on our own. National unity presupposes acquiescence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u76	I would like to remind – for the benefit of our listeners and spectators – that we do not decide thirty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u77	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u78	I would like to point out for those who are following our debates: one person per group carries the votes of all the Members of the group, after consulting them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u79	I admit it; You're right to say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u80	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u81	Title II, which we are starting to study, deals with the creation of a state of health emergency. On behalf of the Communist Members and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I would like to point out that we have problems with the version of the text that is proposed to this House. It is not the list of powers given to the Prime Minister, who comes to us from the Senate, that questions us. Indeed, we find ourselves in an unprecedented situation calling for an unprecedented response, through the creation of a state of health emergency; We can agree that urgent decisions must be taken to deal together with the epidemic and a serious health situation that causes economic and social problems. On the other hand, the method questions us: we can decide together on the establishment of a state of health emergency, but we Communist Members consider that it is also possible to define together the precise measures which must be decided in an emergency. For example, in social matters, we believe that the representatives of the economic and wage-earners world must decide, by branch or in a national way, the best protection for employees. For economic and law and order issues, we believe that it is essential to systematically involve the political forces or parliamentarians here in the discussion. We are currently demonstrating that it is possible to meet urgently. That is why we are proposing that the state of emergency be monitored and that Parliament be involved. The Committee could meet regularly to take the necessary decisions in this context. We are not in favour of giving all powers to the Government; We want Parliament to be involved in decisions every time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u82	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u83	The Libertés et Territoires Group strongly supports a state of emergency in the health sector, as the decisions of the Government and the public authorities must be given a legal basis, some of which will be deprived of freedoms. It is necessary to equip ourselves with tools that will offer agility, because what is true this morning may not be true this evening in certain territories or within certain professional categories. Therefore, this section of the bill does not pose any difficulties, provided that regular exchanges here and parliamentary scrutiny are provided for – which is the case. It will also be necessary to invent methods of discussion which probably do not yet exist. They will concern the functioning of our own institution: how can we continue to monitor the Government's action during this period of confinement? They will also concern the way in which the Government works with the major political groups: it would be desirable to generalize the consultations that have begun to take place, so that we can work as much as possible in a spirit of unity. Finally, the improvement of our functioning will not only concern the Government, Parliament and major political formations, but all decentralized social bodies. I hope that, following our discussion today on the establishment of a state of health emergency, we will be able to meet regularly and improve our own decision-making methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u84	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u85	It is based on Rule 100, concerning the organization of our debates, Mr President. As group representatives, or for some designated as such by the chairman of our group, we have the voting delegations. I wonder: would it not be clearer for those who look at us that only the group representatives raise their hands in the vote? The fact that many fingers are rising does not mean – even if it is at the moment – that we all vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u86	I will advise depending on the situation, which may change during the day. I will ensure the clarity of the votes and if any doubt is expressed, I will echo the point that you have just raised. You are right to explain to the public who is watching us the specific rules put in place for these debates. Thank you for this proposal, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u87	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u88	As has just been mentioned, we find ourselves in an unprecedented situation, marked by urgency, in which of course the absolute priority is to protect the health of our fellow citizens and to give the Government all the tools necessary to do so, while maintaining the guarantees of a democratic society and a rule of law. We discussed at length yesterday the list drawn up by the Senate and the establishment, for the first time in a legal framework, of the national scientific committee which was established in practice and in emergency situations by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. This legal innovation must lead us to a broader reflection and, in this respect, I would ask the Chair of the Committee on Laws to think in the longer term about the issues raised by exceptional health situations, in particular the health-care system that should be introduced in the event of a crisis. We will have to show great agility and honour the wish of Georges Clemenceau, for whom "Democracy must be a continuous creation. This is especially true when the non-immaterial, man-made limits of democracy are tested, but its natural limits – those that remind us of our modest condition. In this context, we will also have to show great collective wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u89	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u90	The Republican Group has tabled very few amendments to this article, as it considers that, in line with the previous one, it lays down a principle of temporal limitation. It is intended to respond to a particular health crisis and state of emergency, but does not create a generic state of emergency that could be used again later. When we find ourselves in the framework of this mechanism, established by the Senate to deal with this crisis, and which seems to us to be balanced in its duration, we can accept broads that we would not accept for a permanent status that can be mobilised at any time. The bill that we are discussing, thanks to the contributions of the Senate, itself decrees a state of health emergency by decision of Parliament, without the need for an order-in-council this time. That is why we have not tabled many amendments. We hope that our discussions will be effective and give the Government the means to act quickly. Nevertheless, we will be meeting you in a few months, when the crisis is behind us, to learn from it and to create a generic status that could be established during other crises – which we never want to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u91	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u92	We said yesterday in committee: when we legislate quickly, we can legislate badly; But we need to legislate quickly, and then adapt. That is why I explained earlier that Sophie Auconie and I, representing the IUD group, Act and Independent, would vote in favour of the article. Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one point that has been debated: we lack your feeling, or even your agreement, on this subject. Ms. Batho proposed, by amendment No. 63, to include in the draft law that the method chosen by the President of the Republic and the Government would also be applied if there was a need again, by April 2021, to decree a state of emergency. This method is as follows: an opinion of the Scientific Committee precedes the decision taken by the Council of Ministers to establish a state of health emergency. To many of us, this seems absolutely indispensable. The Government's text provided for an opinion given by the Minister of Health. Minister, you were participating in this video conference where, in order to postpone the second round of municipal elections, the leaders of political parties and the presidents of parliamentary groups had been summoned by the Prime Minister. The first speaker was the chairman of the Scientific Council: it reassured everyone, if I may say so, that it was really necessary to make this decision. Once again, therefore, it seems essential for our group to include in the law the prior opinion of the Scientific Committee, which, moreover, the Government is not obliged to follow. I say so that things are clear: this law will create for two months a state of health emergency, which it is to be hoped we will not need to prolong it; But if the epidemic reappears in the autumn, as some experts predict, the Government will be obliged to use a decree to restore the state of emergency, and we will need the advice of the scientific committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u93	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u94	The President of the Republic said that he would face this health crisis "no matter what it costs". At this moment when our unity in action must be the greatest, we must be able to organize ourselves. Democracy is more essential than ever, whether it is parliamentary democracy or social democracy, in relation to trade union organisations, with workers in this country. We are deeply upset that this state of health emergency must be reconsidered by Parliament after a month, not after 12 days as the state of emergency we are experiencing. If we are to ensure national cohesion in the fight against this pandemic, we must use collective intelligence and collectively decide on our organization. What we must remember from this episode is that health is more than ever a common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u95	Let's get out of here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u96	The group La France insoumée still does not understand why there is no mass screening of the population in this country, contrary to what the World Health Organization, the WHO, recommends. Perhaps the explanation lies in the fact that we have completely lost our health sovereignty: the tests come from China and the United States. In any event, we must quickly find solutions for masks, hydro-alcoholic gel and screening tests, because we have to deal with both the French people and then be able to help other countries. China sent us masks; Cuba and Venezuela sent doctors and nurses to Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u97	As long as they don't send police...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u98	I hope that France, in turn, will do the same. In the meantime, we must put an end to the daily lump sum, provide care for 100% of the hospitalized population, and above all unblock the EUR 10 billion that the health system needs in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u99	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u100	In Cuba, confinement is a tradition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u101	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u102	Without repeating what I have said about Article 4, the High Assembly has done a great deal of work, each accepting compromises, to find the best possible balance between the maintenance of public order, the preservation of health and the constitutional guarantee of public freedoms and the rights of citizens. This article cannot be discussed without the amendments tabled by the Government, which are intended to go back in part to those amendments made by the Senate. We cannot therefore claim the text adopted by the Senate by forgetting that it will no longer be the same in a few amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u103	Several non-attached Members have asked for the floor: I would like to remind them that they must register in advance, so that I can sign up at the beginning of the examination of the article. Ms. Batho was the first to do so; Mrs Ménard, I will take care to give you the floor later. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u104	For my part, I agree with the logic of the state of health emergency system. There will be two important points in our discussion: on the one hand, the fact that decisions must be based on the expertise, opinions and recommendations of scientists; On the other hand, of course, parliamentary scrutiny of these decisions. Mr Minister, I tabled two amendments, Nos 110 and 112, which were declared inadmissible by the Committee on Finance, to allow you, in the context of the state of health emergency, to order mass screening of the population. The Prime Minister announced earlier that at fifteen o'clock you would take stock of the masks. I ask that this point also address the question of testing, since the WHO has been repeating since 16 March that it is necessary to test and test again, and believes that France is not doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u106	Since last night, Mr Delfraissy, the chairman of the Scientific Committee, has also recommended a massive screening campaign. On February 27, I asked you about the fact that French testing capacity was limited to 1500 tests per day. What explains this delay, while in Germany factories even run at night to produce 4 million tests? In front of the Senate, the Prime Minister spoke of components from China or the United States; But Parliament needs to be fully informed of the means mobilised and of what is hindering the massive deployment of these tests, which is clearly the only way to see the end of the containment system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u107	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u108	My speech may be a little long, but it is intended to begin to answer the questions that have been asked or will be answered in the course of our debate; You will allow me to be then, except for exceptions, much less diserted. The general discussion and the beginning of the examination of the articles revealed two main themes in our discussion: on the one hand, the nature of the state of health emergency and the measures accompanying it; on the other hand, the role and tasks of the Scientific Council. Mrs Batho, I heard your request for clarification about the tests: I had planned to take stock of this issue this afternoon as well. I will therefore, as well as the masks, provide a public and transparent response, as I do on a regular basis. I hope that it will be able to satisfy all those who are waiting for it, who are asking themselves very legitimate questions, unrelated to the polemics that we have seen spring up here and there fortunately marginally, because national union prevails at this time and I am very grateful to you for that. Article 5 plays a central role: it creates the legal framework for something new, the state of health emergency. We are facing an unprecedented health threat, which the President of the Republic has expressed forcefully by stating that it was "the most serious health crisis in France in a century". As Minister of Solidarity and Health, I am entitled to make every provision to ensure the health security of the French by orders made on the basis of article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health. I have signed them as we move towards general containment: I can tell you that when we sign such orders, we pay particular attention to them, as their consequences for the lives of the French are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u110	I cannot say that without adding a word to the French who have seen their daily life upset, their activities challenged, their limited exits. There are those who have postponed a marriage, those who have not been able to go to a cultural demonstration for which they have been preparing for months, those who have cancelled their holidays, those whose children have been unable to go on their way to school, those who have had to close their businesses, those who are afraid of their jobs. They are millions to suffer heavily, in their personal and professional spheres, the impact of the decisions that we have had to make. These decisions taken in the framework of orders L. 3131-1 are necessary, based on scientific recommendations; I'll come back. The Government, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have called for a stronger, more stable and more sustainable legal framework in the context of a health crisis which is not intended to last, in order to ensure its conformity with the law, and in particular to enable Parliament to play its full monitoring and evaluation role. The legislation adopted by the Senate provides that enforcement measures will be subject to this control. Part of the law itself will be subject to it, but another party empowers the Government to make forty-three ordinances, so that it can react very quickly and take decisions as they become necessary. For having lived for four weeks, I can tell you that we sometimes have to take urgent action, which is not the rush, so that they are immediately applicable. An hour's delay, in an epidemic crisis, would be an hour too long: we cannot lose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u112	Establishing a rigid system of monitoring and evaluation, beyond the scope of the text, which describes the state of health emergency, would be a waste of time. I very much appreciated Mr. Lagarde's formula, which said that we cannot legislate as quickly as the virus circulates. Also, we offer you a text that allows us to be more effective. I cannot fail to mention here this administration which is invisible to the rest of the French, but which in the ministries, the territorial authorities, the regional health agencies – ARS – devotes itself day and night to its task. The enhanced parliamentary control must therefore apply only to measures strictly connected with the state of health emergency; For the rest, we must be allowed to move forward in real time, as we have to make arrangements. An amendment which I will present earlier will also make it possible to include this control in the public health code and to ensure its systematic implementation. The very nature of today's major health crises is to be new and unpredictable – and therefore, once again, to call new and unpredictable measures. However, they must strictly respect the rule of law, public and individual freedoms. The Government's text had given a very broad scope to measures that could be taken by decree in the event of the outbreak of a state of health emergency. On the other hand, the Senate wanted to draw up a very limited list of possible measures. This list is not complete; Two sections were added at the sitting, following rich and lively debates, which took place within each parliamentary group itself. However, the text adopted would not, if necessary, allow us to take measures which we cannot anticipate today, for example the closure of establishments receiving from the public, the prohibition of business travel, or the prohibition of certain imports or exports, except for the systematic requisitioning of products; But the requisition of the masks showed us that such a measure could have penalising logistical consequences. The Government therefore wishes to retain the possibility of going beyond the list established by the Senate for purely regulatory measures. Guarantees are already included in the text: a strictly limited purpose to combat health disasters, a requirement of proportionality, control of the administrative judge and control of the Parliament. To accompany the safeguard clause we propose, we offer to consolidate these guarantees. This safeguard clause would, I repeat, concern only regulatory measures, to the exclusion of any individual measure: if you adopt the version of the text that I propose to you, it will be impossible to prohibit a particular person from going to work or even leaving his or her home. On the other hand, it will be possible to take collective measures, like those that the Government and I have been forced to take to ensure the security of the French. Similarly, no individual measure can be taken on this basis by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Individual measures taken by the prefects in the context of a national or local authorization will be transmitted to the public prosecutor. Finally, any individual measure taken in the context of the state of health emergency will be placed under the strengthened supervision of the judge, with an interim order within 48 hours. As you can see, we have taken into account the debates in the Senate. We ask you for more laxity, more latitude, in order to be able to take the necessary measures in an emergency; But we are strengthening their control by the judge, the prosecutor and Parliament. That is the subject of the amendments that I will be presenting. Again, I will talk about it much less at length earlier. Should the scheme be adapted to future health crises? I have no difficulty in recognizing that our action, which is necessary, is urgently being deployed to meet the demand of the moment. As you know, I am deeply committed to Parliament, from which I come, and to the importance of its monitoring and evaluation missions. We will have to learn from this health crisis, as we have already begun to learn from the past few weeks. I created the scientific council, which did not exist during previous health crises, and which is placed with me. The President of the Republic wishes to place him with him, which is a good thing. I asked the board to work transparently and gave it, after issuing a public statement of interest, IPR, the flexibility to work and the opportunity to meet by videoconference or in the same room. The President of the Republic has already received his members, with whom I speak as often as necessary. I have sometimes seized them as a matter of urgency, giving them two hours to give me an answer — if it is not possible, I do not oblige them to provide one. My only requirement for the Council is transparency: opinions must be public and available to all French people, as they are to the President of the Republic and myself. All opinions of the Scientific Council have been published. Last Thursday, I asked the council if the municipal elections could be held on the following Sunday, telling him that his opinion should be purely scientific, without integrating political constraint: as doctors and scientists, do you think that the organisation of these elections increases the health risk? The political dimension is the responsibility of the Government, which will take the decision. The Scientific Council replied that, since people were allowed to shop, they did not run an additional risk of voting. Two days later, on Saturday, listening to the excitement rising into the population, I asked the scientific council to meet and tell me, two hours later, whether it was revising its judgment on the holding of the first round of elections, which was to take place the next day, again without integrating political compulsion, without thinking about assessors, printed ballots and candidates. The Scientific Council told us, not two but three hours later, that the first round of these elections could take place. Everything is transparent, everything is public, everything is on the website of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The operation is fluid, innovative, novel and transparent. I ask you to allow us to continue working under these conditions of transparency and fluidity. Some amendments propose redefining the framework for the functioning of the Scientific Council, to which I am open. Some of you want, for example, a possible extension of the state of emergency to be preceded by an opinion of the scientific council: it seems to me so obvious that it does not seem necessary to write it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u113	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u114	... but if you do not agree, I am open to debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u115	That goes without saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u116	On the other hand, I ask you not to rigidize the operating framework. The Scientific Council is not intended to take the political decision, which is, in democracy, the prerogative of the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u117	Thank you for saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u118	The scientific council is there to inform, enlighten and accompany, not to decide; Besides, he's not asking for it. He enlightens us and informs us in complete transparency, I like all the French. It is not necessary to provide for a referral by Parliament or a direct information mechanism, since all French people receive the same information as I, drafted and signed by an independent council. This is, once again, a total innovation, developed in the midst of a crisis and based on the lessons I have learned from the health crises of the past. Indeed, our country has been deeply marked in its flesh by management of health crises that are sometimes too superficial, sometimes oversized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u120	However, on the latter point, ten years later, it became clear that the obligation to provide resources could be mocked, but that it ensured the health security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u121	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] That is the logic of the text that we are presenting to you, and that is the spirit that will guide us when we consider the amendments. I apologise, Mr President, for the exceptional length of my remarks, I will be much more concise when we consider the amendments, but I am at your disposal to give you the precise insights you consider necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u123	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 30 and 170. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u124	The purpose of this amendment by the Socialist and Related Members of Parliament is to authorize the Minister responsible for labour to take any measures in the event of a serious health crisis to ensure that companies in strategic sectors, whose activities cannot be interrupted, ensure that their employees carry appropriate protective equipment at their workplace. Health, safety and working conditions committees, the CHSCTs, will have to be closely involved, within the constraints of containment measures. While millions of French people remain mobilized in their endeavours to ensure the economic continuity of the nation, it is essential that it create the conditions for the protection of their health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u125	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u126	Everyone must meditate on the minister's statement that if the obligation of means can be mocked, their presence is always preferable. This logic has always animated us, and I am not grieving you, minister. I am even grateful for the explanations you have just given on the conditions under which the decision to maintain the first round of municipal elections was taken on Saturday. This teaches us all that being an expert does not mean being infallible. The truth, as we have often mentioned in this House, is not within anyone's reach, except that of the debate. The expert gives his opinion, then comes the terrible uncertainty of human decision-making, hence the need for democracy. The aim of the amendment is that employers should be obliged to provide the masks protecting workers who have to go to their place of work. We'll be told there's no masks. Back to the minister box: that's good when the means are there! Why are they missing? In 2015, the then Prime Minister decided that the stocks of FFP2 masks would only be fed by employers, with the exception of those of surgical masks that would remain the responsibility of the public authorities. A decision has been made: this situation of shortage is not the result of chance. That's the political decision. For the shareholder decision, let us refer to Honeywell's closing of the Complaint factory, since the production of masks was relocated to Tunisia after five layoffs plans. I invite my Tunisian comrades and friends to requisition and nationalize this company as quickly as possible to deal with the epidemic. Minister, production planning measures must be known. We need tests, the WHO didn't say it for nothing, and I'm sure you agree. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We need millions and millions of masks and tests for the French, but also for the vast Francophone community to whom we have homework. We will not always be able to send Cuba and China to do the work for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u127	I ask everyone to respect their speaking time, not to speed up the discussion arbitrarily, but to reach the conclusion of the discussion of the text this evening. It's important because every hour counts. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u128	We exchanged on this subject yesterday in committee. Minister, you have already provided some answers and you will shed more light on your fifteen-hour point. The question relates to the division between the general measures, which must relate to the state of health emergency, and the transitional measures provided for in Title III of the bill. As you know, meetings are currently being held with professional sectors, including the building sector. Companies should not be reduced in their responsibility for the safety and health of their employees. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u130	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u131	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u132	Even if it were adopted, the wording of the amendment would prevent it from being applied, since it refers to the "threat of epidemics", when the pandemic is already there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u133	You're stinging!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u134	That is another reason to reject the amendment, even if the reason behind it is legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u135	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u136	For the past few days, large-scale disconnections have occurred, particularly in the shipyards of Saint-Nazaire, and many employees of Amazon warehouses, nuclear contractors and workers of the BTP are asserting their right to withdraw. We understood that containment was essential to curb the spread of the virus. It is not for employers to decide unilaterally whether to continue or stop their activity. The amendment aims to give this responsibility to the public authorities, in connection with assemblies of workers and trade union organisations. If we allow, as politics has agreed for years, the market to do, activities are relocated, as Jean-Luc Mélenchon has shown at the moment for the production of masks, essential for the nation. Another example is the Luxfer plant, located in France, the last in Europe to produce essential medical oxygen bottles, which is at a standstill pending its next relocation. This is the time to understand that not only do relocations create unemployment and can lead to social deaths, but they also deprive our country of the activities that are necessary, or even vital, as they are today, simply for reasons of financial rapacity. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] The paradigm must change! We solemnly request that the public authorities draw up, in connection with the assemblies of workers, a list of the economic sectors which should continue their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u138	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment deals with two issues: firstly, you would like to see the list of trades and sectors considered essential, an aspect on which the Minister may have some clarifications, because this issue has been under discussion for the past few days; On the other hand, the amendment provides that the Minister for Solidarity and Health, in conjunction with his colleague in the action and public accounts, may fix daily fines for employers whose activity is not included in the list of occupations essential to the nation in times of crisis but who ask their employees to visit their workplace. I do not agree with the wording of the amendment, because the law, especially criminal law, must be very clear and very precise. Such a provision seems to me to fall within the scope of article L. 3136-1 of the Public Health Code, which we complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u140	I understand the logic, honourable Member, of drawing up a list of so-called priority occupations for the life of the nation. But I'll make you a confession: I don't know how to make that list. I do not know how to do it in the urgency in which we find ourselves, and I will never be sure that I do not forget the essential jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u142	There is no storage of medicines without refrigerator; There is no refrigerator without fridge or electricity; there is no electricity without electric cables; there are no electrical cables without making plastic, necessary to coat them;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u143	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u144	... there is no plastic manufacturing without plastic extraction in the factories; There is no plastic extraction in plants without materials necessary for this activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u145	It's all connected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u146	When you pull the thread from your proposal, it turns out to be impossible to apply. You say that important factories close: believe me, I need everyone and a massive reorientation, initiated for weeks, of all industries that can do so towards the production of materials essential to the protection of the French and those who take care of them. This is essential. Sometimes, Mrs Panot, it is not the employers who decide to shut down the company, but the trade union centres. What I want to tell you is that we need the economic life of our country to continue. Of course, economic interests are important, for employment, and because there will be one after the health crisis; But most of all I need people to keep working to make sure I don't miss anything to protect caregivers. We are already in difficulty about the masks, we have been in trouble about the hydro-alcoholic gels: I need all of France to be sufficiently mobilized at work, because this collective effort is indispensable, beyond the economic survival of the Nation, to the care and care of the people who expect this attention from us, because they are sick. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u147	Four speakers are asking for the floor. I'm going to satisfy them, but I'm going to encourage them to brevity. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u148	Minister, you announced that you would make a point at fifteen o'clock about masks and tests. I will therefore intervene before the sitting is adjourned, because I would like you to mention a subject that has already been discussed, but briefly: oxygen. Luxfer is a Puy-de-Dôme company, which manufactured oxygen bottles, especially for hospitals, until its closure a few months ago. She was the only one in France – and the only one in the new Europe, I say of the new Europe – to do so. Without it, we will have to be provided in Turkey or China. In his speech of 12 March, the President of the Republic referred to "goods and services that must be placed outside the law of the market". Luxfer's been shutting down for only a few months. Employees who possess the know-how are present, machine tools are still there; A few days would be needed to restart the production site. I ask the following question: Is the Government ready to take over this site? You need to take a look at the masks and tests; Can you include the stock of oxygen bottles, and say if there is a risk of shortage? I recall that Luxfer was able to produce 950 bottles a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u149	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u150	I hear your very structured reflection, Minister, on the difficulty of establishing a list of activities essential to the continuity of the Nation. We are here today to enrich the Government's text, as well as to make you aware of the ups and downs of the ground. The first, quite unanimous, leads me to pay tribute to the quality and clarity of your expression: you have yet to prove it before us. In the crisis we are going through, given the importance of the stakes and the ambition of the objectives we are pursuing, thank you for the quality of your speech and your availability. Nevertheless, I would like us to hear from those who are speaking to us, Members. Some activities are essential to the continuity of the nation, and those who exercise them feel that they are not being heard, including road drivers. They are indispensable, and yet they do not have all the means, especially sanitary ones, to maintain good hygiene and a correct quality of life when they are on the move for a week to ensure deliveries. Masks are also a matter of concern for some employees, including cashiers, postal workers, building workers – all those who are in contact with others and feel unprotected. This is a real subject. I hear your explanation about the organization of the logistics; You tell us we'll have these masks. However, this is not the case today: in the French mind, it is blurred, and "when it is blurred, it is that there is a wolf". Your 15-hour intervention really needs to be up to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u151	Sixteen hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u152	Sixteen hours, says the minister. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u153	Colleagues, crisis management is one thing, its teachings are another. Please, let's not confuse the two! We will have to devote days, weeks or even months to learning from the crisis. The issues of stocks, essential trades and investments are not the only ones involved: Europe, globalisation, means, etc., will also have to be mentioned. But today we have a crisis to resolve, and the relevant issue is the means to be deployed as we get there. Your interventions will probably find their place later. Of course, the list of essential trades is essential, but what is its usefulness if the corresponding equipment is not available? Sophie Auconie said it very well: cashiers are necessary, caregivers too, like those who care for the elderly; Many trades are essential, but the means to exercise them are lacking. This crisis comes in a given situation; The lessons will have to be learned, and we will devote the necessary time to them. But for the time being, we have an interest in focusing our interventions on the subject of the measures to be taken to deal with this crisis on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u154	That is precisely the subject of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u155	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u156	I'll try to answer, and maybe convince the minister. Let me begin by saying that we agree with his remarks: to determine the chain of interdependence of production is very difficult – firstly because we destroyed all the planning tools that the country had, secondly because globalization made these chains much more complex than they were ten, twenty or thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u157	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u158	How can I do that? We must reconcile two objectives. Some sectors of production must indeed continue. It is demagogic to say that France can be closed: it is not possible! We certainly need it, but when we give instructions, we must be believed and obeyed. To do this, we need to inspire confidence. Why would this one go to work, and not this one? One reason must be given: this is essential, it is not. Back to the starting box: how to define what is essential? The minister can't – I agree: he can at the end, if we give him the list, with proof of validity. Who can establish it? Employees! In the emergency, ask the workers of the companies to define how to ensure maintenance and continuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u159	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u160	You will see that from one factory to another they are able to do so: they have already done so, under other circumstances. They call, warn, inquire: such raw material is necessary, where to find it. Trust the intelligence of employees in the workplace, they will tell you what they need and how to produce it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u161	But now is not the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u162	I do not hide my intention: if in this crisis we could initiate the world of tomorrow, by restoring worker planning and control over production – control, or as you wish to call it – and recognizing their value, we would have taken a great step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u163	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u164	Let me elaborate on the example of lorries. A trade union order requires that road transport be stopped. I would like to take this opportunity to make another point: one million contracts in this sector concern posted workers. Place all transit between Belgium and Spain or Italy on trains!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u165	I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u166	I'll finish on that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u167	Shut him up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u168	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you don't do this, it'll be a mess. You have no guarantee that all the people in these trucks come from countries where containment is observed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u169	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u170	The arrest of the national economy will lead to financial difficulties of all kinds for a very large number of our fellow citizens, which will expose them to charges for bank incidents, as long as their accounts will be overdrafted or overdrafted. Commission d'intervention, costs of rejection of payments and rejection of cheques, invoicing of letters informing of incidents are all costs that already weigh heavily on the budgets of households, due to the lack of the mechanisms of capping provided by the law and despite the partial initiatives of the banks to cap the fees applied to the so-called "fragile" customers only. The cost of bank incidents, which last year amounted to almost €7 billion, could well explode due to the increase in overdrafts, unfunded accounts, as a result of revenue losses. In view of the economic and social urgency that is added to the health emergency, it is therefore necessary to establish a moratorium on all charges and commissions for bank incidents levied by banks on their so-called "natural persons" customers, whether they are households, self-employed and self-employed workers or micro-entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs. With this amendment, the Group of the European People's Party proposes that, throughout the whole period of the health crisis linked to the Covid-19 epidemic, no bank should, by means of bank incident charges, aggravate the difficulties that many will face. At the same time, it aims at rescheduling bank loans and private rents throughout the state of emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will have the opportunity to discuss this again, as we have tabled, as part of our parliamentary niche, a bill on this subject. But if the urgency is now, it also concerns these banking arrangements. They can be details in the eyes of some, but for many of our fellow citizens they represent daily burdens, which will continue to grow in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u171	Yes, Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u173	He's unfavorable. Article 5 concerns the state of health emergency and the health and public order measures necessary to prevent the spread of the virus: your amendment does not fall under this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u175	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u176	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u177	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I am surprised at the speeches and the amendments tabled on this article. We are working on the health emergency; As I said in general discussion, every minute is important to fight the spread of the virus – time is running out. I have heard the minister answer questions at length and in a measured manner, providing the necessary guarantees, in particular on the proportionality of the measures to be taken. We will indeed have to ask ourselves about our economic model; The example of masks is a good example of the analyses that we will have to conduct, by debating before the Nation, after the crisis. But for that reason, we are in an emergency, every minute counts. We will discuss Article 7 during its examination, but the article that concerns us concerns the health emergency: I fear that we are spending too much time on irrelevant matters. The French are waiting for answers. The minister announced a press conference this afternoon: I hope that he will be able to hold it for the public – as he said – and that we will not waste too much time on him this morning with debates that we will have at another time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u178	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u179	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Perhaps the rapporteur could give an opinion on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u180	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u181	We are all here to do our work; we are working on it under difficult circumstances. If the amendment is wrong, we apologize – we should have put it somewhere else. Nevertheless, this is not the substance of the subject, and it is the substance that we are discussing. Are bank charges a problem? Will they not have a direct impact on the lives of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u182	This is not the subject of Article 5!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u183	If we debate it now, we will not come back to it; Answer us on the merits and avoid the interventions that waste time saying that we must not do any interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u184	We're not in pension reform anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u185	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u186	Please! It is still annoying: the group La France insoumée has not tabled many amendments – as you will have noticed, barely ten. We believe that they are important. It would therefore be good to answer us in substance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u187	It's not our fault you placed it wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u188	... and to explain why it is not possible to adopt these measures. We will hear the reasons, and perhaps we will not be convinced. In any event, this question deserves an answer: if you do not provide it now, we may return to Article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u189	No injunction, Mrs. Obono, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u190	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] The introduction of this amendment is not enough to challenge it, given its importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u191	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u192	It concerns the overseas territories and I defend it on behalf of Jean-Hugues Ratenon, Member of Parliament for La Réunion, who has asked you on several occasions on this subject. I hope you have an answer, Minister. When we presented it in committee, we were told that this amendment was satisfactory. But that is not the case. It aims to provide these territories with a high capacity for emergency response, taking into account their geographical, climatic and health situation. In the absence of clear instructions from the Government, the Prefect of La Réunion found himself in difficulty on the arrival of a cruise ship that Mauritius had refused to allow to dock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u193	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u194	In addition, the Indian Ocean Regional Health Agency prohibits Reunion pharmacists from distributing masks to medical personnel, which is obviously a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u195	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u196	Our colleague Ratenon asked you by mail on this subject; several parliamentarians had asked for the introduction of controls for the cruise ships and at the airports: they take place in that of Mayotte, but not in La Réunion. As here, but even more acute, there is a shortage of masks and hydro-alcoholic gel in Réunion; staff do not have protection. Could you give your opinion on this amendment, which is intended not to leave the overseas countries at the margin in a context where the disease is going to explode, since there too, cases are beginning to multiply?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u198	He's unfavorable. I regret that I did not convince you yesterday, especially since your amendment is satisfactory. These issues are largely dealt with in Article 5a and Article 6, which provide for an order to adapt the state of emergency in the overseas communities. In addition, the state of health emergency will include, in article L. 3131-25 of the Public Health Code, a system of authorization of prefects to take general and individual measures allowing great reactivity and adaptation to local circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u200	I have nothing to add to what the rapporteur has just said on the legal provisions. I do not question the legitimacy of this amendment, but, as I have pointed out to you, Mrs Panot, your comments are wrong on two points: the prohibition that would be made to pharmacists to distribute masks to doctors because it is about the overseas and the absence of clear instructions regarding the arrival at La Réunion of cruise ships refused by Mauritius. I was myself in an interdepartmental crisis cell that night: I can tell you that the instructions were perfectly given to the prefect to make the necessary arrangements. That doesn't mean it's simple...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u201	I relayed what the prefect told Mr. Ratenon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u202	You'll tell him that's not true. The problem is that you assert it as a truth and not by asking the question. I'd prefer you to question yourself; I would then answer you in a much more pleasant way. When you say things like this, it gives the impression that we are not dealing with the overseas territories. However, we are constantly dealing with it, because of the fragility of remoteness. Solidarity between regions, which can play on metropolitan territory and which allows us to have simpler material transfers, is much more complex for remote territories. The latter, however, have the right to the same security and investment by the public authorities to ensure the health of citizens. There is no discussion, not a defence council, not a council of ministers, not a daily crisis cell without addressing the question of the overseas territories. I was last night with the overseas minister, Annick Girardin. I have asked the Directors-General of the regional health agencies of the Overseas Territories to transmit to the Prefects the census of all the protective equipment that has been delivered to them, as well as the list of needs, the number of vacant resuscitation places, the reorganisation capabilities and the partnerships with neighbouring territories, including foreign territories, which we could establish for mutual and collective assistance in the coming period. I am sending the following message to the Overseas Territories: we are thinking of you, as we are thinking of any French citizen in any part of metropolitan or overseas territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u203	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u204	The ultramarine Members of our group have alerted us to the particularly catastrophic situation in the overseas regions, pointing out that the largest medical deserts are often found in these territories. They call for our attention so that solidarity can be exercised and that they can have the necessary reinforcements. I am thinking in particular of the territories in the Caribbean, close to countries such as Cuba and Venezuela, which offer partnerships with doctors in particular. Are these proposals under consideration? They have been accepted by Italy, where doctors have already arrived. Martinique and Guadeloupe, located close to these countries, could also benefit. I know that the situation in Reunion is particularly difficult. Its inhabitants, as well as those of Mayotte, need perhaps stronger solidarity. Are staff and resources reinforcements planned for these territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u205	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u206	Minister: of which act. Don't feel attacked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u207	A little bit, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u208	We echo what our colleagues say, especially Jean-Hugues Ratenon, who is vigilant: this is our job! We ask you about this: our intention is not to overwhelm you, but to question you. You answered, everything's fine; Don't feel compelled to say, "That's not true! We do not seek to crucify you, but to ensure that information circulates as widely as possible, so that we have to deal with the real problems, by passing on false ones. We have heard your words; Listen to Mr. Fabien Roussel's. I'm sure you're doing everything in your power, intellectually, for the overseas. But let's say to national representation that it's a hell of a problem to ensure health solidarity when we're so late. This is particularly the case in French Guiana: it has as its neighbours Suriname, which limits no one, and Brazil, whose President of the Republic believes that Covid-19 is an invention of the West. In addition to the difficulty of being equipped, we therefore encounter important problems. In the Indian Ocean, of course, we will do everything we can in Reunion and Mayotte. In these groups, as in the Caribbean, we participate in regional alliances, in which we will be asked to behave better than the Germans or other European countries do with us. We're going to be told: you French, you're the great power, how are you going to give us a hand? We will have to do this and provide masks, tests, etc. That is why we are asking you: it is not a question of pointing your finger, but of pointing a finger at the opinion where the problems which the country must solve are located! Finally, Mr Schellenberger, do not give too many lessons about respect and how to speak as you scream when one of our colleagues speaks. Let us all bet to listen: there are no unnecessary discussions or unnecessary amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u209	It's unbearable! Idiot useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u210	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u211	Who said anything useful?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u212	It's me, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u213	I don't think that's...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let's get this right, ladies and gentlemen. We find ourselves in particular circumstances, which require extreme rigour. We all have deep respect for the word and the right of amendment and we will conduct these debates in a dignified and effective manner. We don't invet each other in this Chamber. We listen to the speeches and we have the right to be concise: given the urgency of the situation, every hour counts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u215	The amendment concerns the spread of the epidemic in prisons and the measures that should be taken. In the context of this health crisis, we want to pay particular attention to detained persons. As in many sectors, there are challenges for both staff and inmates. The responsibility for crisis management cannot rest solely on the behaviour of a head of establishment or a magistrate: in our view, we need clear measures from the public authorities. There is an urgent need to drastically reduce the number of prisoners in order to limit the risks of the health crisis, which is now endangering the lives of those convicted and those accompanying them. In this sense, we believe that all unnecessary hearings for prison sentences, such as immediate appearances, should be suspended in order to give priority to those that will, on the contrary, limit it, such as those before sentencing courts. There was a need to limit the number of entry into detention, to give priority to alternatives to imprisonment and to place pretrial detention under judicial supervision, and to postpone the execution of sentences. There is a need to facilitate release from prison for all persons who may be affected. In addition, we believe that the Government must ensure that detained persons maintain family ties and rights of defence through the acquisition and distribution of mobile phones to such persons. The question of the health crisis and the state of emergency must apply in these areas. Persons detained there shall not be deprived of the protection due to them; The same applies to all the staff involved. We know that the state of our prisons – which has been much debated in this assembly – and the overcrowding in prisons require a decrease in density. There is now an urgent need to do so, for reasons of health and justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u217	It is unfavorable, as an order in this regard is provided for in section 7, paragraph 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u218	There you go! Another amendment that has already been satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u219	The aim is to limit the spread of the Covid -19 epidemic among those involved in or involved in these procedures, as well as the rules on the enforcement and enforcement of custodial sentences, in order to make the arrangements for the placement of prisoners in prisons more flexible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u221	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u222	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u223	Mr Schellenberger, there is no useful idiot here. I invite you to follow the instructions of the President; while you're there, make an effort of transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u224	The President has invited us not to question colleagues in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u225	[[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] You have referred several times to this meeting of 1500 people, forgetting to specify that it was a religious meeting that allowed contamination. Had this been done by Muslims, we would have heard about it for days. With regard to the situation of prisoners, the rapporteur replied that the matter was being dealt with elsewhere and that the problem was being resolved: so much the better. However, let this allow us to reflect on what confinement is. This has hardly been mentioned among the things that weigh and create anxiety: confinement is not a natural situation for human beings. When it comes to prison, we understand it all the better as it happens to us all. When the time comes, Minister, we will have to ask ourselves how we respond to the psychological pressure that confinement exerts on populations, which may lead to disorderly acts aimed at escaping a situation that seems antinatural and brutal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u226	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u227	Our group fully supports the creation of a state of health emergency, but it seems to us that article 5, paragraph 11, is insufficiently precise. Currently, the Government has as its legal basis only the famous article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code, created by the Law of 2007 on the Preparation of the Health System for Large-Scale Health Threats. This article is the result of the SARS crisis – severe acute respiratory syndrome – that occurred in 2003; "In the event of a serious health threat requiring emergency action, particularly in the event of a threat of an epidemic, the Minister responsible for health may, by reasoned order, prescribe in the interest of public health any measure proportionate to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place..." It is clear, Minister, that you would find it difficult to use this section. We therefore need a new legal basis: it is proposed to us. We propose adding, after "the state of health emergency is declared in the event of a health disaster endangering, by its nature and gravity, the terms "its scale" and "its uncontrollable character by the medical system". It is therefore a question of being more precise in the definition of a state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u229	We had this debate yesterday in the Law Committee. I understand your point of view, Mr. de Courson, but I do not share it: the current definition of a health disaster as a situation "risking, by its nature and gravity, the health of the population" seems to me to be sufficiently precise. The Act of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency also retains a similar degree of precision. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u231	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u232	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u233	I will make a general remark: we tend to want to write this text – sometimes with good intentions – too precisely. We have had this debate on many occasions in the Law Committee. Let us pay attention to this, because managing the crisis will also require managing its deceleration. However, during this deceleration, the Government – including the minister currently on the bench – will have to make arrangements. Even though the crisis will be potentially controlled – precisely because it will have entered the deceleration phase – it will be necessary to continue to take measures relating to the state of health emergency. Let us therefore, ladies and gentlemen, be careful to draft the text too precisely. This comment will also be valid for other sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u234	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u235	We will discuss, during the examination of this article, all the measures – considerable – to restrict the public freedoms that it authorizes. We cannot afford to write a vague text. The bill as proposed is vague, since it only refers to the nature and gravity of the health situation. The magnitude of the disease is quite different: an epidemic can be serious as long as the disease can cause death, but it remains of a very limited scale, which would not justify the outbreak of a state of health emergency. The second, third and fourth criteria proposed by the Freedom and Territory Group aim to define this concept of scope. We have not invented this whole proposal: as was mentioned yesterday in the Committee on Laws, it is the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights that advises us to properly frame the definition of a state of health emergency. The aim of Amendment No 57 tabled by our colleague Delphine Batho is also to introduce the concept of scope into Article 5. The Liberties and Territories Group would also like to mention the inability of the medical system to cope with the epidemic. Our proposal aims to ensure respect for public freedoms and to avoid a diversion of the state of health emergency procedure, by regulating it properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u236	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u237	I will be brief, because we had this debate yesterday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The amendment seeks to clarify the definition of a state of health emergency by providing that it can be triggered in the event of a health disaster which is a danger by its nature, by its gravity, but also by its scale. It is the scale of the current epidemic that forces us to take action in the context of a state of health emergency. The rapporteur indicated yesterday that she was not opposed to this amendment, but that she wished to know the Government's position on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u239	I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn: while I have no major objection, as I said yesterday in the work of the Committee on Laws, I consider that the nature and gravity of a health disaster already include the concept of magnitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u240	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u241	This is an amendment drafted by Yolaine de Courson. The WHO defines health as a state of physical and mental well-being, not simply a lack of disease or infirmity. The amendment is therefore intended to add to paragraph 11, after the word "health", the words "physical and mental".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u243	He's unfavorable. The addition of these terms does not appear necessary at this stage, as the current wording already allows mental health to be considered if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u245	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u246	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u247	I would like to point out to the Assembly that it is pleased that the committee and the Government are issuing an opinion against this amendment. You can imagine, in fact, what an undemocratic government could do if it were free to establish an exceptional state of emergency invoking the mental health of the population. The last government to do so was in power in another country, which then invaded us. That each measure the scope of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u248	Is the amendment still in place, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u249	In the light of the explanations given, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u250	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u251	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-21-O1185.u252	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the emergency bill to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic; Further to the discussion of the emergency organic bill to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. The meeting is adjourned.
