ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u2	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to put her question, No. 1188, on the consequences of pesticides on pollinators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u3	My question is factual and very simple. In Europe, pesticide licensing rules do not take into account risks to bees and pollinators. Since 2013, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) has therefore recommended a reform of pesticide assessment methods. If applied, neonicotinoids would never have been allowed. Seven years later, this reform is still blocked. Worse: Since 2019, under pressure from agrochemical companies, the European Commission has requested a downward revision of the requirements set by EFSA. Member States may decide to implement the recommendations published in 2013 by EFSA – for example, Belgium – as invited by ANSES, the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency, in an opinion delivered in October 2019. When will France apply the new criteria for assessing pesticides, taking into account the risks they pose to pollinators?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u5	It was in 2013 that EFSA issued its guidelines. If they are still not implemented, as you rightly pointed out, it is not because of the Member States but because of discussions within the institutions. We have therefore asked the European Commission to complete the EFSA review by March 2021 so that European guidelines can be defined and transmitted to the Member States. I am quite convinced of their need because, in agro-ecology, action is needed at European level. These guidelines are important and it is because they are lacking that we insisted on achieving a result by March next. Let me make two more general comments on pollinators. First, as you know, the Government is preparing a national action plan to protect wild pollinating insects. The Minister of Environmental Transition and I have begun working with professionals to agree on the content of this plan, which will include a review of the regulations governing the use of pesticides, whether it be its environmental aspect, the issue of impasses or, most importantly, labour law. Secondly, the common agricultural policy – CAP – and the legislative review of pesticide regulations are all opportunities to defend our views on plant protection products at European level and then to decline the measures within the framework of the national strategic plan – NHPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u6	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u7	To protect pollinators, it is best not to allow the reintroduction of neonicotinoids! On the other hand, Minister, you did not answer my question: when will France implement the recommendations made by ANSES and EFSA? Last August, you committed to publish by the end of 2020 – we are already on 8 December – "a plan to protect pollinators to strengthen their protection during flowering periods and to better take into account the issues associated with pollinators when plant protection products are placed on the market." And now you are referring to European discussions that are blocked! My question is therefore this: when will France decide to apply these guidelines on its own?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u9	I like to be forced, early in the morning, to reply to your lines, but don't make me say what I didn't say. I have clearly distinguished between the actions we are taking at European level to complete and distribute the EFSA review by March 2021 and two additional points: the 'pollinizers' plan, a national plan on which several consultations have been launched, and our work within the framework of the CAP and the future French presidency of the Council of the European Union, during which a number of important issues will have to be addressed, including the review of the pesticide package. Finally, with regard to your little pike on neonicotinoids, I would remind you that Belgium, if it implements the EFSA recommendations, has reauthorised them for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u10	Mr Stéphane Travert has the floor to put his question, No 1169, on the shellfish sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u11	The epidemic situation of covid-19, which is starting to rise again at the end of the year, is a cause for deep concern within the shellfish sector, particularly the mussel sector. Large production areas, such as Normandy and Brittany, have the legitimate question of selling their production to the out-of-home catering sector – RHD – which is closed administratively and absorbs almost 40% of the sector's sales at the end of the year. Without these indispensable opportunities, their fears are, as you know, strong and understandable. Professionals also see a galloping deflation of wholesale prices: it is difficult for them to maintain prices. However, the epidemic phase we are experiencing is likely to create a slowdown that will have an impact on the end-of-year holidays, a crucial period for the cash flow of the shellfish sector. The cash flow situation is a matter of concern; the consequences of the closure of breweries, restaurants and places of cultivation are real and correspond, little or no, to the share of the traditional marketing of oysters in autumn and winter. Are you considering, Mr Minister, a plethora of measure 55 of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund – EMFF – through a repackaging of the scheme? How are your discussions with industry representatives on the demands they have been making for several weeks? Finally, what do you think of the possibility of amending, by means of a bill that I tabled last year, the rural and marine fishing code in order to allow the exploitation of algae not only in respect of the marine fishing activity but also in respect of the exploitation of the life cycle of aquatic plant species? This would make it possible to divide their exploitation between fishermen and aquaculturists and would provide an additional source of income for these sectors, to which we attach great importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u12	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u13	First of all, honourable Member, I would like to commend your commitment to the beautiful shellfish sector that you know well and that you are a strong advocate of, in your territory as well as elsewhere. It happens that the Minister of the Sea and I received the entire shellfish and fish sector yesterday afternoon. First topic: accompaniment. Like many other "festive" or so-called productions because their sale is concentrated at the end of the year or at a particular time, it was very important that the shellfish sector be included in the list of so-called S1 bis sectors: this is what we have obtained. Precisely because they are festive products, the threshold at which the loss of turnover gives rise to the reduction of contributions is debated – between 50% and 80%; we discuss with Olivier Dussopt how to make this provision. Second point: the aid granted under the EMFF – I am speaking under the control of the Minister of the Sea since the steering of this fund depends on his ministry. First of all, we will increase the ceiling on public aid granted, as the profession demands. Secondly, we agreed to consider a new abundance as part of the repackaging linked to the end of the EMFF programming, which is to be carried out by spring 2021. The third very important topic is the promotion of shellfish products. We are carrying out this work as agreed with the large distribution, which we obtained three weeks ago that it is committed to promoting the beautiful fresh and local products of our country. The aim is, of course, to be able to promote, among other things, shellfish and fish products. For example, almost 85% of oysters are sold at outlets and not at restaurants, hence the interest of our approach. Finally, you are proposing to amend the rural and marine fishing code so that the cultivation of algoculture is also part of the exploitation of the life cycle of aquatic plant species: I will have great pleasure in discussing it with you. The Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code already contains provisions on this subject, but on this subject the two channels concerned need to dialogue in order to reach agreement, and I am ready to lead this dialogue with you to see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u14	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 1165, concerning the partial exemption from property tax on non-building.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u15	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to the system of partial exemption from the property tax on unbuilt properties set up by the State and its consequences for farmers. This summer, drought has profoundly affected farmers, reducing the production of animal fodder by almost 60%, as well as cereal production. Under these conditions and in order to help farmers, the State decided in November to grant a reduction in the property tax on unbuilt properties – TFPNB. In Aisne, the envelope to compensate for this partial exemption is estimated at EUR 5.3 million. Owners of agricultural land classified as grasslands will benefit from a 60 per cent discount, while annual agricultural production will benefit from a 30 per cent discount. Granted ex officio without the owner or operator having to make any steps, this rebate is deductible from the amount of tax paid under the NBTF for 2020, and will be returned by cheque letter or by transfer to the current owners of their payments. This is an expected and welcome step. In the event that the owner of the property and the operator are two different persons, the law requires the owner to return the benefit of the property to the operator. Some owners of Aisne, a department particularly concerned with this provision, where two thirds of farmers work in rent, do not seem to be aware of this obligation. So, in order to avoid the emergence of tensions that are already threatening, can you tell me what steps you intend to take to ensure that the owners will return the aid to the farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u16	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u17	You are quite right, Member, and your comments could have been mine: today, the drought is no longer anecdotal and the episodes are repeated year after year. We must therefore both prevent and act. Without going into detail, the best way to prevent drought episodes and fight their effects in a sustainable way is to pursue an ambitious water policy – which I intend to do, because it is in my view the best protection. This is a difficult subject, but we have achieved progress thanks to the measures you have adopted. Secondly, when we fail to prevent drought, we must be able to accompany farmers, first and foremost by laying down provisions for farming practices. I will not go into the details of this subject that you know very well; Let's just say, for example, that we can change the temporality of plantations in areas of ecological interest – SIE. We can also decide to make advance payments under the common agricultural policy. This is what was done this year as early as October 16th – in this regard I would like to commend the teams of the service and payment agency, the ASP, which, in a complicated context, has done tremendous work to ensure that payments are made. Thirdly, we apply this famous relief from the property tax on unbuilt properties, territory after territory. The difficulty lies in the fact that it is the owner who receives the notice of relief: in some cases, however, he does not return the sum to the farmer. We remind him that he is legally obliged to do so – it is not an option but an obligation. In your department of Aisne, in particular, our teams and those of the departmental Directorate of Public Finance – DDFiP – have ensured that this reminder is included in the discount notice itself or on the information sites. However, on this subject, by acting in a transparent manner, we are faced with a form of intermediation, if I may say so. That is why, with a view to the next summer, I am trying to anticipate drought measures as much as possible so that they are more automatic than in the past, and above all to implement this ambitious water policy, certainly the best service we can provide to our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u18	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u19	Thank you, Minister, for all the attention you pay to farmers. They are aware of this and thank you, too. Since 2016, they have experienced a real accumulation of climate hazards and other difficulties: this attention must not weaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u20	Mr Laurent Garcia, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1157, concerning the France services house in Laxou.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u21	My question concerns the project to install and label a France services house in Laxou, a city of which I am lucky to still be mayor, for reasons that it would be too long to explain here. This structure would be located in the district of the Provinces, which is a QPV, a priority area of city policy, considered to be of national interest under the new national urban renewal program, the NPNRU. For years, its inhabitants have seen the departure of public services, one after another, and rightly perceive a sense of both abandonment and insecurity. The national police station itself, which played an essential role in the heart of this neighbourhood, is empty, for technical reasons linked to the structure of the building: it had some cracks. The national police officers, hosted by the social lessor Batigère, were redeployed elsewhere. Only communal public services, communal centre for social action, stop-garderies, Ludotheque remain in the neighbourhood; certain associations, such as the local mission and the district administration; At last, the Batigère agency. Since the Government has announced that the PQs will have priority in this area, I would like to know whether the establishment of a France services house incorporating a police station – not a police station, which would not fall under the same legislative provisions – is likely to be validated, and if possible partially funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u22	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u23	We are fully aware of the importance of the presence of public services throughout the country. The President of the Republic announced in April 2019 the deployment of multi-purpose France services networks, that is, France services houses, so that users can carry out the main administrative procedures of the daily in a single place, less than thirty minutes from their home. France services, which embodies the return of public services within our territories, participates in the movement of background, of transformation, aimed at ensuring that everyone everywhere has a place of reception for the public close to his home. In the autumn of 2020, the France services network, which operates according to the plans defined by the prefectures in partnership with local actors, already has 856 structures labeled. These labellings will continue until the end of 2022. The objective is to achieve by 2021 the 2000 establishments, i.e. one per canton. In addition to this cantonal target, the 216 QPVs of national interest under the NPNRU, 47 of which are also republican reconquest districts, are priorities of the Government within the framework of France service, in order to ensure the access of their inhabitants to public services. The district of the Provinces of Laxou is in this case: it is therefore one of the priority objectives of the France services programme. Its coverage can be provided by the creation of a fixed or mobile structure, according to the needs identified locally. The proposed application for the label must be submitted through the Meurthe-et-Moselle prefectural referent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u24	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u25	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. You will have taken note of my wish for a fixed structure; I note for my part that the district, within the canton of Laxou, is a national priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u26	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to raise her question, No. 1185, concerning local agreements on the opening of shops.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u27	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities to the need to legally secure local agreements regulating the opening of businesses as part of experimentation or territorial differentiation. Since 1997, the country of Rennes has developed a culture of dialogue with trade actors, social partners and local elected representatives, in order to define a framework adapted to the specificities of the territory; But in the absence of a sound legal basis, these agreements have no binding legal value. In addition, in spite of the aid schemes, the health crisis which severely affects small local businesses, mostly closed during the two confinements, exacerbates the inequalities between them and large areas. This is a real challenge for economic development policy. However, local agreements help to preserve the balance between the shops of the city centres, the heart of the town, and the large distribution, often located in the periphery. Land use plans are based on the same logic as the "City-City Action" or "Small Cities of Tomorrow" programmes and the national strategy for crafts and local commerce. In January, the Government committed itself to exploring the possibility of experimentation in this area, so that territorial specificities could be expressed on the basis of local consensus. While the future 3D bill – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – is being drafted, by what measures does it now intend to guarantee the legal certainty of local agreements on the opening of businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u28	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u29	You are asking me about the commitments that the Government intends to make, particularly in the context of the future 3D bill, with a view to ensuring the legal certainty of local agreements governing the opening of shops on Sundays and public holidays. In France, Sunday rest remains the rule; there are derogations for food businesses in the framework of the "Mayor's Sundays", or in certain particularly touristic areas. Some businesses may also benefit from a prefectural derogation, the conditions of which are very strict. Conversely, the prefect may require the closure of shops, for all activities of the same sector within a given geographical area, after agreement of the relevant actors reflecting the opinion of the majority of professionals in the sector; the concept of "majority" plays an essential role, since it constitutes the legal condition of this order and thus prevents it from being the subject of contentious actions. This is a tool for regulating competition at the initiative of the social partners; in this case, the derogations concerning Sunday rest do not apply. This measure, which is set out in Article L. 3132-29 of the Labour Code, is thus intended to avoid unfair competition within a given geographical area between businesses of the same nature, whether or not they are subject to the obligation of Sunday rest. It allows the prefect to regulate the weekly closure, whether on Sunday or on another day, of all establishments of the same profession, regardless of their size, and whether or not they employ employees in the territory concerned. In addition, local negotiating practices aimed at establishing a balance, for the benefit of small businesses, between their opening beaches and those of medium and large areas, have long existed in some territories. The country of Rennes introduced them in 1997 and based on a consultation involving all the stakeholders. Since the legislation in force did not allow this system to be legally secured, the Prefect of Ille-et-Vilaine had issued a Sunday closure order for food shops of more than 700 square meters, cancelled by the Administrative Court of Rennes on the grounds of procedural error when collecting the opinions of the establishments concerned, and not because of a legal difficulty posed by the letter of the law. At this stage, the future 3D bill does not include provisions for experimentation in this area, as it focuses on the public policies announced by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister: housing, ecological transition, mobility, health and social cohesion. On the other hand, the example you have mentioned invites us to make procedures more secure by means of simplification, which can be found in this text, if it is of a legislative nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u30	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u31	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for that clarification. I can assure you there's an emergency. I recently received a petition signed by 700 small traders; They expect much from the future law, because many of them risk disappearing. The Government's announcement goes back a year: we ask you to act as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No 1159, on the aeronautics sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u33	My question, addressed to the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, concerns the inevitable conversion of part of aviation jobs. The health crisis of the Covid-19 brought a real blow to air transport, both in France and in the European Union and throughout the world. The entire aviation sector suffers; financial difficulties, loss of turnover, could jeopardize its survival. Coronavirus has so profoundly disrupted our lifestyles that even in the optimistic hypothesis of the forthcoming distribution of a vaccine, the return of air trade to their pre-crisis level is not expected for four or five years. While France's aviation industry accounts for 300,000 jobs and 58 billion euros in turnover, its companies are facing the consequences of this crisis, which put at risk the know-how of this industry of excellence, as well as its technological innovation capabilities. Some are already being bought by foreign investors seeking to conquer new low-cost markets. From subcontractors to subcontractors, all are in extremely worrying situations: in the Occitanie region, almost half of the employees in the sector could be dismissed within a few months. In the face of this disaster, it is imperative that we respond. But our devices, like partial activity, are inadequate: they will never be able to last for four or five years. Our territories will experience a very strong increase in unemployment. We therefore need to plan together a large-scale industrial conversion: I propose that you create an ambitious mechanism, financed by the State and the regions, for the secondment of aeronautics employees to sectors of the future, such as industrial robotics, mobilitys of the future, artificial intelligence. The state would no longer pay these unemployed employees to stay at home, but to help us build the future. Such a system, crucial for the aerospace industry, which can be transposed to other sectors and regions, would allow us to develop new channels of excellence in our territories while safeguarding valuable skills. How could we apply it quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u34	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u35	Mr President, the aviation industry is strategic in our country, and I am aware of your commitment to this issue in the National Assembly, particularly in the Aviation and Space Sector study group, which you co-chair. I also know the importance of this sector for your territory, the Haute-Garonne – where I had the opportunity to go to talk about the pension reform project – and for all the elected Touloussains. I share your concern about the importance of the impact of the health crisis on companies and jobs in the aviation industry. Let us say, the resumption of air traffic will be very gradual and will take several years. We may wish it to be faster, but we must also be realistic in the light of the health crisis. With regard to the preservation of the economic fabric and the reconversion of enterprises and jobs, I would like to begin by recalling that the Government has put in place a wide range of solutions to support companies, which have been seized by the aviation sector. As early as March 2020, the enhanced partial activity regime was activated to preserve jobs affected by the health crisis. Under this scheme, more than 17 million hours worked were compensated, with a commitment of EUR 244 million to employees in the aviation industry who were partially unemployed. Since the summer, in order to support companies that are experiencing lasting declines in activity, we have been implementing the so-called long-term partial activity, based on the negotiation of the social partners either within the branches or within companies. Large aeronautics groups such as Thales, Safran or Airbus were able to benefit. I recently received the management of Safran to work with her on the detailed development of her company agreement, taken in particular to accompany the company's transformation. We have also mobilised the National Employment Fund – NEF – to train employees in long-term partial employment, which represents almost one billion euros in the France Recovery Plan. I agree with you on the fact that the crisis has a differentiated impact on companies in the same employment pool: it is an economic reality. That is why, at the social dialogue conference on 26 October, we implemented, in conjunction with the social partners, a solution close to the one you are proposing. This is the so-called collective transition scheme, aimed at employees whose jobs are at risk and who turn to a local job, through training or a process of validation of experience. The State finances all or part of the conversion project, depending on the size of the enterprise. For SMEs, the State pays 100% of the remuneration for the training of employees undergoing conversion. The first paths of collective transition will be set up within pilot territories and will mobilise all the actors involved in employment and training in an employment pool. A call for demonstration was launched on 28 November, and I imagine that your territory will seize this mechanism and demonstrate its interest. Mr. Deputy, be assured of the Government's commitment to accompany the territories that are severely affected by the economic and social consequences of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u36	Mr Patrick Loiseau, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 1158, concerning accommodation facilities for minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u37	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice to the management of the institutions and services of the Directorate of Judicial Protection and Youth – DPJJ – as well as the resources allocated to them. The JJPD's missions to young offenders and youth in difficulty are essential to redressing harm to society. The action carried out with these young people also fulfils a beautiful objective of reintegration, thanks to personalized accompaniment. However, the reality is sometimes quite different from the principles. In my constituency of Vendée, an educational unit for collective accommodation – UEHC – was created in 2013 in the residential area of the Angelmière in La Roche-sur-Yon. Last night I attended a meeting on the functioning of this structure, at which its main problems were mentioned: young people usually arrive in an emergency, which does not allow the educational team to prepare for their reception, they present drug problems – all young people have one or more addictions – and important psychiatric and psychological problems, as well as schooling and learning. This translates into many acts of vandalism in the neighbourhood: vandalized cars, intrusions into property, thefts, physical and verbal assaults... Many facilities exist throughout the country to accommodate young people in difficulty: open institutions, closed educational centres, other types of educational placement facilities and juvenile detention centres. For all these structures, it is essential to allow good support for minors in difficulty and to maintain calm relations between young people and residents of these establishments. Account must be taken of the reality of the ground in order to avoid acts of vandalism and situations beyond control. What are the legal and administrative arrangements and criteria for the placement of young people within these different juvenile structures? How do the placement and personalized follow-up of each minor take place? Who decides the institution to which they are directed and according to what criteria? It is necessary to understand the dysfunctions and difficulties of the accommodation and placement structures for minors if the problems connected with them are to be solved. Mr Minister, is it desirable or necessary to review the legislation on the reception of these young people in order to enable them to be better integrated into society? If that is the case, I am prepared to work with you. It also seems essential to ensure that these structures are properly integrated into the city.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u38	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u39	Mr Dupont-Moretti, I apologize for the absence of Mr Dupont-Moretti, with whom I was able to speak directly about the subject you mentioned in order to provide you with the most precise answer possible. First of all, young people taken care of by the judicial protection of young people – PJJ – often have chaotic life paths, marked by breakdowns, family, health and social difficulties. In the context of a dialogue between the court and the juvenile justice services, the placement of a minor may be ordered by the magistrate, taking into account the need to bring the minor closer or to keep him/her away from his/her usual environment. For this purpose, the judicial protection of young people has structures for placement in the public sector, as well as in the authorized voluntary sector. There are thus strengthened educational centres, closed educational centres, homes, places of life, or even foster families, and the diversity of these solutions makes it possible to individualise the response given to each of the minors. PJJ's placement structures are mostly located in urban areas, as is the case with the La Roche-sur-Yon home in your electoral district. The aim of urban development is to facilitate access to integration schemes, both structurally and educationally. Institutions of this type require effective supervision; They are subject to regular checks by the Territorial and Interregional Directorate of the PJJ. In this context, the establishment of La Roche-sur-Yon was recently visited by the Interregional Director of Youth Judicial Protection. Each institution carries out a project guaranteeing the care of the young people who are welcomed there. This project must take into account the environment of the structure and it is essential to maintain regular exchanges with local partners in order to quickly provide concrete answers to the difficulties encountered by the residents – whom you know well and legitimately relay. The keeper of the seals wrote to the mayor of La Roche-sur-Yon to encourage dialogue with the elected representatives, and remains vigilant to the pacification of the establishment where twelve teenagers stay. In addition, soundproofing and movement of certain premises, including the gym, have recently been carried out to limit possible noise nuisances. The keeper of the seals is determined to carry out substantive work on this subject, and exchanges, including on the arrangements for placement of young people, will soon be organized. We will not fail to associate you with these reflections as you have expressed the wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u40	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u41	I attended a meeting last night at which the dialogue seemed to be resuming. The most important thing is that residents are involved in decisions on the operation of the structure, through the establishment of a steering committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u42	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No. 1186, on the future of EDF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u43	Minister for the Green Transition, for the past year, the main lines of the Hercules project have been drawn by the executive with the aim of splitting EDF into several watertight entities, in particular to open up the capital of its activities in renewable energies. This project is built in the utmost secrecy between the Elysée and the European Commission, which is at the origin of very strong and legitimate questions among employees, within the territories and among all those interested in energy issues. In recent weeks, particularly disturbing rumours have been relayed by several media, better informed than the national representation – you will agree that this is a great deal! According to the newspaper Libération and Les Échos, the President of the Republic alone decided to dismantle EDF's major public service, whereas the context requires us instead to defend an integrated vision, which has proved its worth and is the only one able to face the energy and climate challenges of today and tomorrow. The health crisis reminded us of the importance of having strong public services, as is still the case with EDF. In substance, many questions arise. Minister, can you tell the national representative on what basis the discussions in Brussels are taking place, where the discussions on regulated access to historic nuclear electricity – ARENH – are taking place, what the scope and status of the quasi-regime you want to create for hydropower, what is the multi-use of water, inseparable from hydropower generation, and the concessions of the Société hydro-électrique du Midi – SHEM? There are just as many questions about the form: what will be the governance of these three entities, what is the timetable, how have you planned to involve parliamentarians, local elected representatives and trade unions, what will be the legislative vehicle used? Minister, we are waiting for specific answers. It is high time to be transparent about the future of our public energy company and to stop ignoring national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u44	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u45	As you said, Madam Member, EDF plays and must continue to play an essential role in our country by being one of the main drivers of the ecological transition, in particular thanks to a very low greenhouse gas emission production fleet. EDF is massively developing renewable energy while continuing to operate the existing nuclear fleet and preparing for the closure of coal-fired power plants, as foreseen in the multi-annual energy programming – EPP. The Government's priority is to ensure that the company has sufficient investment capacity, which will be increased to fully participate in the energy transition in its various components. EDF already allows us to produce electricity which is one of the most decarbonised in Europe, and which will be totally so by 2050. With this in mind and within the framework of the Hercule project that you mentioned, the Government has asked EDF's President and CEO to make proposals for the organization of the group, in order to enable it to provide the necessary resources to meet the massive investment challenge ahead. At the same time, we are also negotiating with the European Commission on the regulation of existing nuclear power. This negotiation has different objectives. The first is to maintain an integrated group, thus restructuring without destructuring, and to allow the company to have all the investment capacities it needs, so that employees can exercise their know-how under the best conditions. The next step is to ensure the financing of the existing nuclear fleet, consistent with the objectives of multiannual energy programming, and to protect consumers from price increases in electricity markets on a sustainable basis. Contrary to what has been read in the press, negotiations with the Commission have not yet been concluded and are continuing. Be assured, honourable Member, that we are conducting discussions with the Commission with determination and ambition to defend the interests that you have mentioned. I have no doubt that parliamentarians will be able to associate themselves with the emerging project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u46	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u47	Madam Secretary of State, you recalled the stakes and the role of EDF, which we know, but unfortunately you did not answer the questions I asked. Our criticisms relate to the fact that Parliament is not associated: it was in vain that Members of Parliament and Senators asked for clarification; no information was provided to them. However, it is logical that Parliament should debate the future of EDF and then that the Government and the President of the Republic should defend its position in Brussels. This is not at all what is emerging: we will have to decide very quickly on the text that will be submitted to us. We still do not have any answers about the quasi-regime status for EDF, which has very important implications for the consideration of all uses of water. I fear that we will make an irreversible decision that is not up to the stakes. Our responsibility is to secure the management of common assets, but that does not seem to be the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u48	I call Mr. Philippe Benassaya to speak on his question No. 1178 on the implementation of the SRU Act and prison housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u49	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the problems faced by prison staff in finding housing, including social housing. More generally, the terms of the Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal, known as the SRU Act, including the requirement to reach the quota of 25 per cent of social housing, pose great difficulties for municipalities. Contrary to what some people think, they show good will to fulfil the indispensable solidarity effort towards our most fragile fellow citizens. Moreover, they find it difficult to find land available to build social housing. It should be noted that the SRU Act takes all existing housing on the communal territory as the basis for the calculation of the 25% target. This leads to a perverse mechanism: whenever a municipality builds social housing to guarantee the principle of social mix, there is an accumulation effect by which the proportion of social housing increases only marginally. Thus, many municipalities face multiple difficulties in the implementation of this law. These difficulties are even greater for those who host a prison, sometimes in the city centre, because prison staff are faced with housing problems, especially at the beginning of their careers when their situation is even more precarious – I know this from experience since I was mayor of Bois-d'Arcy. These municipalities therefore need help to fulfil the common objective of providing affordable housing for all our compatriots, but also to meet the specific needs of these staff. I propose two avenues of work that are based on dialogue and consultation rather than the Government's preferred injunction. The aim would be to reserve a quota of social housing for prison staff from the prefectural quota and, by way of derogation, to apply a lower rate of social housing to the municipalities concerned in order to compensate for their efforts to accommodate prison staff who are, let us recall, State officials in their territory. I remain at the disposal of the Minister responsible for housing to find, through consultation and dialogue, ways to make the SRU law more effective and to improve concretely the solidarity effort for all those who need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u50	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u51	You draw the Government's attention to the difficulties encountered by some municipalities in fulfilling the obligations to produce social housing set out in article 55 of the SRU Act, particularly those with little land. You would like the rate of social housing imposed on them to be adjusted in order to take account of their contribution to other public policies and to focus on the situation of those hosting prisons. The SRU Act aims to develop a sustainable supply of housing that is both accessible to households with limited resources and well distributed within the territory. This is a major tool in our policy on the production of social housing, which is one of our priorities. With the deconcentrated services of the State, the Ministry of Housing is in the process of finalising for each municipality concerned the three-year review of the period 2017-2019. Our general orientation in this context is to maintain the full ambition and the requirement of the SRU system: in order to achieve these objectives, we must stick to the established trajectories. The Ministry of Housing does not ignore the fact that land availability is a major constraint. In communes where they are weak, production objectives can be achieved through existing acquisition-improvement operations or the mobilization of the private stock for social purposes, in particular through rental intermediation. Moreover, contrary to what you say, whenever a municipality builds social housing, the rate of social housing increases and is close to the target set. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the observance of the objectives of the SRU law by the municipalities hosting a prison also contributes to the housing of the staff of these centres and their families. They may benefit from the prefectural quota reserved for State officials, provided they meet the resource requirements. The development of a balanced supply of affordable housing throughout the communes is a priority of the Government. The Ministry of Housing does not intend to diminish its scope, while so many of our citizens are facing difficulties in housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u52	Mr. Philippe Benassaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u53	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but the reality is a little more complicated than that. Penitentiary staff, especially at the beginning of their careers, find it very difficult to find accommodation. Some cannot access social housing because their wages are too low. I even know agents sleeping in their cars in the parking lot at the Bois-d'Arcy detention centre. Their access to social housing really needs to be facilitated. Mayors are already making a lot of efforts to try to make social housing, there is no need to give them injunctions. Land rights of way are not legion in cities. Dialogue with them should be given priority rather than imposing a punitive SRU law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u54	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1162, on the implementation of the solidarity surloyer in the city of Rouen Normandie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u55	As part of its new local housing programme, the metropolis Rouen Normandie had in 2019 revised, in consultation with the state, the areas of exemption from the solidarity surcharge – SLS. Applicable on 1 January 2020, this measure has been postponed to 1 January 2021. As of that date, 600 families will have their rent increased considerably, from 160 to 320 euros for the examples available to me. But the social context, you will admit, has radically changed with the crisis that we are experiencing. For this reason, the Metropolitan Executive has prepared a draft for a redrafting of the superlocate exemption in order to ensure concrete solidarity with households and to maintain social cohesion in the neighbourhoods concerned: postponement of an additional year, smoothing over several years the envisaged increases, exemption for persons over sixty-five years of age. As it should be, the prefect's opinion was required, but it is with a certain stupefaction that we find that the prefect's request is not met a few weeks before the deadline of 1 January. How does the Government explain such a position? Why did you accept at the end of 2019 a one-year postponement over the municipal elections and avoid a fair discontent and then refused at the end of 2020 a new version of the superlocate exemption card in response to the unprecedented deterioration in the purchasing power of wage-earning households? Would the minister responsible for housing be prepared to intervene with the prefect so that he gives an opinion in accordance with this draft of deliberation of the metropolis Rouen Normandie, elected very sensitive, like all, to the situation of our fellow citizens at the present time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u56	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u57	Mr President, you are asking us about the owners of social housing subject to the solidarity surcharge because they exceed the resource ceiling by at least 20%. Legislation on SLS has changed significantly in recent years. Thus, in order to promote diversity, the SLS does not apply in the priority areas of city policy or, where appropriate, in specific areas defined by the local housing programme, after agreement of the Prefect. In addition – and this is probably the case you raise – some tenants in the territory of the metropolis of Rouen have benefited from an exemption from SLS, provided for by the social utility agreements concluded between the donors and the State for a period of six years, which ended in 2018. This mechanism has disappeared, since Article 81 of the Law of 27 January 2017 on Equality and Citizenship abolished this possibility within the framework of social utility conventions. However, tenants who benefited from it continued to be exempted from overlaying until December 31, 2020, by virtue of a decree implementing the same law – Decree No. 2017-922 of May 9, 2017, in its article 13. This was a transitional phase-out of the multi-year SLS exemption, which was not intended to be extended beyond 2020. I would add that the cumulative amount of rent and SLS is capped at 30% of a household's resources. The application of the overlay is a measure of equity which allows to take account of changes in the financial situation of tenant households in the social park, without calling into question the possibility that they will be housed there. The current exemption measures are strictly proportionate and we do not think it appropriate to change that balance again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u58	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u59	Since there is no indication that the representative of the State will put forward any solid arguments for the proposed deliberation of the Metropolitan Assembly, I will officially communicate to you, in writing, the words of the president of the metropolis Rouen Normandie and of his vice-president of housing: they call the attention of the Government to the ability of the elected assembly to reorganize the exemption of superloyers and expect an unequivocal response from the prefect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u60	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor to put his question, No 1181, on the development of national roads in the Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u61	I would like to put two blocks of questions to you, Madam Secretary of State. The first concerns serious national road problems. My electoral district has more than 90 kilometres of national road 4 and more than 30 kilometres of RN44. These two axes are extremely loaded, especially in heavy goods vehicles; They have two sections of 4 kilometres to two tracks – the section between Fère-Champenoise and Contondre and the section between Sarry and Châlons-en-Champagne on the RN44 – which join two sections with four tracks. Does the Government intend to include the appropriations for each of these two sections in the future State-region plan contract? In order to ensure road safety on these two axes – RN4 and RN44 – does the Government intend to include the funds for the realization of a safety roundabout on the RN44, at the top of the Gravelines coast in the commune of Cuvrelot-en-Perthois, and at the entrance of the commune of Vauclerc, on the RN4? Finally, as part of the fight against noise pollution, does the State envisage the construction of an anti-noise wall along the RN4, on the edge of the commune of Vauclerc? My second block of questions is broader: under the so-called 3D bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration – does the Government envisage the optional transfer of national roads to departmental councils, with the possibility of creating a heavy goods vehicle tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u62	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u63	You draw our attention to the work on the modernization of RN4 and RN44, and to possible developments in the taxation of heavy goods vehicles. Be assured that the State pays special attention to the security conditions of RN4 and RN44 in the Marne. In the framework of the State-region plan contract, the funding committed for security improvements on these two axes has enabled studies to be launched: as a follow-up to the safety diagnosis of these routes, recommendations for corrective action have thus been defined. The Minister of Transport also commissioned his services, in 2019, to carry out preliminary studies and detailed design studies for four sections to be developed – in particular concerning the crossroads you mentioned with the departmental road 26, at the top of the coast of Gravelines, on the RN44 – in order to enhance its safety. The precise characteristics of these developments will be refined in the context of the detailed design studies. In addition, it is planned to create a giratory at the law of the commune of Vauclerc, on the RN4, in order to eliminate the crossings and to bring to standard the crossroads of the RN4 between the exchangers of Marolles and Thiéblemont-Farémont. The application file was the subject of a decision by the environmental authority at the end of August, allowing further development studies. This project focuses on securing the route, and will not alter the road traffic of the RN4. It is therefore not planned to create a noise barrier in the commune of Vauclerc. The continuation of the security improvements identified on the RN4 and RN44 in the Marne, whose only studies are funded under this State-region plan contract, will require the project to be included in the next contract, over the period 2022-2027; With this in mind, the financial mobilization of communities, alongside the state, will be a key asset in registering the financing of the work of these operations. Discussions will open in this direction, under the auspices of the Prefect of the Region, in 2021. Finally, the discussions under Bill 3D will provide an opportunity to address the issue of the optional transfer of national roads to local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u64	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u65	Thank you for these answers, Madam Secretary of State, but who says pre-study does not say achievements. Is the State, yes or no, in favour of the inclusion in the future State-region plan contract of the appropriations corresponding to the two sections mentioned above on the RN4 and on the RN44? You say that preliminary studies have been launched on two roundabouts; But does the State intend to enter the corresponding appropriations, with the agreement of its partners – the region and the department, in particular? Finally, will the noise barrier be integrated into the layout of the junction? The situation is long infernal for the inhabitants of the commune of Vauclerc: a continuous train of heavy goods vehicles prevents them from sleeping. As for the second set of questions, Ms Gourault said that the Government was considering including in the 3D bill the possibility of transferring national roads to the departmental councils that wished to do so – knowing that we would also have to study the question of regional councils – in return for the famous heavy goods vehicle tax, which was voted for the Alsace region? Will the Government soon publish the text that will allow us to apply this tax? I would like you to complete your answer on these matters, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u66	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor to put her question, No 1170, on telephones in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u67	The law provides that access to fixed telephones must be guaranteed to every French citizen – this is the theory. Now in the Drômois countryside, anger roars; It even overflows, as this essential right too often remains flouted. Among the inhabitants, as well as among the mayors who are powerless spokesmen, anger is alive; It reflects a sense of abandonment and contempt, silence – the deafening silence of Orange, an operator mandated by the State to provide universal fixed line service to everyone; the deafening silence of an operator who does not afford himself. In the Drômois hinterland, at the time of 5G and fibre, elderly people remain for several days without a fixed line – therefore without tele-assistance – alone, at home; mayors wait three months for the transfer of the line, when private individuals wait eight months for the opening of theirs. The Drômois in the hinterland feel like second-class citizens. This anger is that of rurality, of the 3000 or so elected members of my constituency who are fighting for hours with Orange's teams to get a semblance of response, sometimes an intervention. Orange was called on several times in 2018 for failing to comply with its obligations and is liable to a fine of more than EUR 1 billion. After a brief and light start, nothing has changed. The situation must change: you have the power to do so. The universal service agreement signed between the State and Orange was concluded on 3 December; Since then, it's the legal vacuum. In November, the Assembly passed the Law on various adaptation provisions to European Union economic and financial law, known as the DDADE Law; it creates a new framework for universal service, redefining it not only as access to fixed telephony, but also as broadband Internet access for a minimum list of services. That provision would be a real step forward if it were to be translated into practice in all territories. Deputy Minister, what do you intend to do to guarantee rural areas real access to universal service?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u68	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u69	The Government is very committed to ensuring that all our citizens benefit from a high-quality telephone service. I take note of the situation you are reporting in your department, which is of course regrettable – I am putting myself in the place of the inhabitants who are undergoing it. As you pointed out, Orange's designation as the operator responsible for the universal fixed telephone service ended on 3 December. A universal service including broadband access will be introduced in the coming months as part of the transposition of the European Electronic Communications Code – an important contribution of the recently enacted DDADE law. The current transitional period should not be accompanied by a relaxation of efforts; We must maintain and, above all, establish a quality level of service, in particular for the copper network on which our citizens who do not yet have access to fibre optics depend. In this sense, the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse – ARCEP – will soon set out quality of service obligations, in a so-called market analysis decision that is about to be adopted. Orange will have to respect levels of quality of service vis-à-vis customer operators for the construction of new lines and repair of faults, and will naturally have to be at the level expected by users and local elected officials. The regulatory authority will also require Orange to publish quality of service indicators, such as timeliness and compliance rates, or the rate of monthly incidents brought to the fleet. This requirement of quality on the wholesale market, between operators, will have consequences – positive, I hope – on the retail market. Beyond the monitoring of the network that ARCEP will continue to carry out, I hope that Orange will quickly make additional commitments to the Government, the inhabitants and the elected representatives, for example by using the provisions of article L33-13-1 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code – created by the DDADE law – in order to ensure that customers of the current universal service offers do not see their situation deteriorate, and even to do everything – I insist – to improve it. For the future, the European Electronic Communications Code plans to extend the scope of universal service to broadband Internet; ARCEP will shortly give an opinion to the Government on this matter. The provision of this broadband service will not only be based on Orange, but will mobilise all the operators who contribute to the France plan very high-speed – a plan for which the Government is mobilising an envelope of 550 million euros, which will enable all the territories to support a generalisation of fibre optic coverage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u70	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u71	It is not so long that we are attached to the fixed line; We are mainly condemned to use copper lines for a few more years. We would therefore like all necessary attention to be devoted to them. Moreover, it is essential that the indicators provided by the operators are drawn up at the departmental level, and that they differentiate between rural and urban areas: this will be the key to better piloting the service at the local level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u72	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor to put her question, No. 1168, on the management of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u73	The Alpes-Maritimes have the peculiarity of cumulating several natural risks: floods, storms, avalanches, earthquakes, drought, or forest fires. On 2 October, storm Alex struck the Roya, Tinea and Vesubia valleys, causing numerous casualties and heavy material damage. This damage still causes great difficulties for the inhabitants of these valleys – unfortunately, these problems will continue for many years. Despite the warning that had been given a few hours earlier by the services of the Alpes-Maritimes prefecture, the latter could only limit – and not avoid – certain tragedies. I would like to ask you first of all about the risk prevention plan. The Civil Security Modernization Act of 13 August 2004 made it mandatory to draw up a municipal risk prevention plan in municipalities meeting certain criteria. Only plans for the prevention of communal risks are mandatory; In practice, it would be illusory to believe that the risk stops at the communal borders, and that a municipality can manage a crisis of such magnitude alone – while public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation can mobilise human, technical and financial resources on a larger scale. I therefore wonder whether it is appropriate to make it compulsory to draw up a risk prevention plan at the level of intercommunality. Once storm Alex passed, we had to take care of our fellow citizens. In our valleys, many people and many families found themselves homeless overnight, with the obligation to relocate urgently for a more or less long period of time, depending on the condition of their home. I think it would be appropriate to extend the mobility leases to the victims of natural disasters: this extension would offer more possibilities of rehousing to these people whose solvency is impaired. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the economic situation of entrepreneurs, artisans and liberals in the disaster valleys. To enable them to recover, could we not establish aid mechanisms similar to those in rural revitalisation zones or free zones? If they received such tax and social benefits, the professionals in the affected municipalities could hope to survive and bounce more easily, after losing everything. It could also attract economic actors and investors, thus reinvigorating a highly tried and tested territory. As a result of the severe damage caused by storm Alex, the inhabitants and elected representatives of the Alpes-Maritime valleys are concerned. That is why, Minister Delegate, I would like to know your position on the points I have raised, so that in the future we can better prevent and manage natural risks, but also better accompany the economic and social consequences that result from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u74	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u75	Thank you for this very detailed and cross-cutting question. You are dealing with both topics under the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. I will endeavour to respond in as detailed a manner as possible. As you know, the Government immediately mobilized, in the aftermath of storm Alex, to best accompany the people and traders affected by the disaster. The President of the Republic announced the establishment of a EUR 100 million solidarity fund for the reconstruction of the territory of the three valleys following the storm; €50 million will be allocated under the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards – known as the Barnier Fund – in 2021 to support housing restructuring. In addition, MPs and Senators voted for the opening of €20 million in the programme 122, dedicated to natural disasters, of the fourth amending finance law for 2020. These appropriations – which will be reviewed, if necessary, when the inspection mission has submitted its report on the final assessment of the damage – as well as the appropriations of the communities and the European Union – if they can be mobilised – will be the subject of a shared governance with the territories, which will soon be deployed. In addition to emergency aid and personal security schemes, individuals and professionals affected by the weather benefit from the tax measures applicable to such events in respect of local taxes or direct taxes. Instructions have been given to the Alpes-Maritimes department's Directorate of Public Finance to facilitate the procedures of users who are victims of this weather. Last week, I went to Grasse where I discussed this subject with the general secretariat of the prefecture. More generally, France has a set of tools for preventing and compensating damage to property resulting from climate events. The French scheme combines market tools with public funds based on the insurability of climate events. Indeed, the so-called "CatNat" public-private regime compensates for direct material damage and operating losses under the terms of the contracts. However, in the vast majority of cases, insurers are reinsured with the Central Reinsurance Fund, a company wholly owned by the State, which ultimately bears at least half of the cost of CatNat damage. It is estimated that more than 98% of metropolitans have damage insurance and thus the CatNat guarantee. Finally, know that with my ministry, I strive to best accompany the TPE-SMEs in the territory of the three valleys. We will try to see how to find, beyond the assurance system, suitable devices to support all entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u76	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u77	Minister, I have heard all of your answers. The appropriations will necessarily have to be revised upwards because the damage amounts to more than 1 billion. As a result, the projected 170 million will be insufficient. I really count on you and your department to find appropriate mechanisms. If we do not help small artisans and traders, these valleys, especially that of the Roya, will die.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u78	The next item is the question by Mrs Frédérique Meunier, No. 1174, concerning the situation of rental companies for reception equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u79	Mr. Deputy Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, in our capacity as a Member of Parliament, we encounter many people, artisans, traders, entrepreneurs, individuals, who are experiencing new difficulties that did not exist before the covid-19 pandemic. This is the case of a reception equipment rental company that I have known for a very long time, to which we often rent rental equipment as a community. She finds herself in great difficulty because there are no more receptions, no more weddings, no more rugby matches – I'm thinking of Brive's club. All this represents a huge loss of profits. It has recently built a huge hangar and renewed equipment – tents, heating equipment, chairs, etc. This sector has, surprisingly, a main activity code, the EPA code, which links it to the collective agreement for audiovisual, electronics and household equipment. It is true that these structures have not existed for a very long time. At the time, we probably wondered what convention to attach them to. However, this undertaking has told me that this agreement is not, and is understood to be, appropriate to its activity, and that it prevents it from benefiting from certain accompaniments defined by your government, which could possibly protect it. My question, as you understand it, is very simple: is it possible either to amend this EPA code and to link these companies with those of the restaurateurs, for example, who I think are more linked to their activity, or to open up the accompanying measures that the Government has introduced in favour of this sector of activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u80	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u81	As you know, the solidarity fund is intended to help the companies most affected by the crisis, particularly because of their sector of activity. Let me tell you from the outset that I am sensitive to your comments, and I understand, we all understand that, in the course of this crisis, many problems have been identified that do not arise in everyday life. This is the case with the French activity nomenclature, the NAF code, which is usually used for statistics and which is used here for economic reasons. As part of the new containment health rules from November onwards, we have significantly changed access to the solidarity fund. All companies with 50 employees, instead of 10 previously, regardless of their turnover – previously, a turnover criterion was used – and their sector, which was created before 30 September – the date of creation has been reduced – can benefit from the Solidarity Fund if they have been closed by administrative decision or have lost at least 50% of their turnover. This is naturally the case in the event sector, which I would point out is not defined by the texts. Conditions for access to the solidarity fund are regularly adapted to take into account the economic impacts of the health crisis. It is a tool designed, adapted, easy to access. I want to point out that the November package was available on 4 December, and that this morning companies have already received the money for November. Companies providing and renting capitals, tents, structures, sound systems, photography, light and pyrotechnics are already included in the S1 list of the tourism plan. They therefore benefit from the arrangements. Furthermore, the S1 bis list of the tourism plan – these are all activities related to closed activities – was expanded on 2 November to allow any company specializing in the development and layout of stands to benefit from the solidarity fund when less than 50% of their turnover is realized with the entertainment sector, thus directly linked to the S1 sector – organisation of fairs, public or private events or fairs and congresses. However, I hear your request concerning companies covered by the APE 7729Z code, some of which would not benefit from the Solidarity Fund because they are not included in the two preceding categories. This is the whole difficulty of the tailor-made. For these companies, we will look at precisely how to add them to Annex II of the tourism plan so that they can benefit from the scheme. We will ensure that no company is left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u82	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u83	It might have been easier to change the code so that it would be more suited to their situation – but I don't know if that is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u84	Deputy Minister, I give you the floor exceptionally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u85	This is not done mechanically. It is the company that chooses its code in relation to its activity. This code is defined at the global level and cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u87	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to put her question, No. 1179, on the tax credit for donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u88	Deputy Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, during the examination of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill, you introduced the 50% tax credit scheme to encourage professional landlords to give up part of their rent. The tax credit is still to be voted in the 2021 Finance Bill, as the Senate has proposed that it be included in the first and not in the second part, as was the case in the Assembly. There are several drawbacks to this system because of its level, in my view, insufficient and its unfair character. It is based on the spirit of solidarity and the goodwill of donors. Bruno Le Maire stated that "he encouraged large land holdings to take on their responsibilities." But it is to hide the fact that many small private owners may need these rents for their budget or to repay their loans, and that they do not necessarily have to resort to the tax credit, which is also shifted over time. This arrangement can only be based on the ability of commercial tenants to convince their owner that half a rent is better than nothing, because the tenant is allowed to discuss with his owner. In the end, some traders will have gained only a deteriorated relationship with their owner, but no response on their rental charges. So, what is your answer to those traders who can no longer bear their fixed charges and who, in fact, find themselves in great financial difficulty? After a year of disarray for small business, what future do you want more generally for retailing in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u89	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u90	Madam Member, you are referring to a subject which is indeed very complex because the donors are very diverse. Between land, concessions and a large number of private donors, it was almost impossible to make a uniform and automatic decision. I remember that between March and May, an attempt to negotiate by department took place between the donors and the tenants, which unfortunately did not have much effect. That is why, as soon as I arrived at the ministry in July, I resumed discussions with the donors to try to find the appropriate solutions. Quite honestly, I admit that there has not been much spontaneous goodwill, especially from institutional donors, large land holdings, and it is true that the situation is complicated for private donors. That is why we have decided to propose to Parliament a 50% tax credit rate. You think that's not enough, and I hear your comment. Nevertheless, I would point out that the restaurateurs in particular had requested 30%: one third for the lenders, one third for the tenants and one third for the State. I hope that this tool will be used by many donors. However, in view of the possible risks and the small number of those who use this scheme, we have increased the solidarity fund very strongly from December onwards: 10000 euros and 20 % of turnover for closed sectors. We believe that this support will help to include the cost of rents for these professionals, so to solve the problem on an ongoing basis. Furthermore, with regard to small trade, with the Prime Minister's permission, I have submitted a report to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council before the end of January on how we could implement a genuine trade policy in the coming months and years, so as to sustain economic activity, particularly in rural areas and in the city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u91	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u92	Minister, I hear your answer well, but I think you are aware that the Solidarity Fund will not settle everything for our retail businesses. The tax credit is a mechanism that results in a cash lag. But the hole is about 2020. If I understand correctly, this problem will be addressed by inserting this device in the first part of the PLF. For the Republicans, however, referring the effect of the 2022 tax scheme does not really constitute a contingency plan, agree. We have always advocated the creation of a rent intervention fund with proofs, independent of the solidarity fund, because this fund, which might also have had to be reviewed, will not be enough to fill the shortfall in the profits of the owners who have been in debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u93	The next item is the question by Mr Bruno Bilde, No. 1189, concerning the fate of the employees of the Maxam Tan plant in Mazingarbe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u94	Mr Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, what will become of the Maxam plant in Mazingarbe and what will become of its seventy-five employees? Indeed, this chemical plant in Pas-de-Calais was placed in court on 26 October by the Lille court following a mismanagement of the Spanish Maxam group, which was 71% controlled by an American pension fund. While the workers and their families were hoping for the announcement of a buyer, we learned a few days ago that the offer to take over a French group did not succeed. This news is a new shock for the employees of this industrial site classified Seveso, who are today victims of an inhumane and blind globalization, sacrificing any social consideration on the altar of profitability. In this tragic series whose script was written in advance, one actor is missing, shamefully absent since the activity ceased in June. Where is the state, Minister Delegate? Where are you? For months, the Government has failed to take stock of this situation, which is so serious for the employees who find themselves on the tile and for its ecological consequences for the territory. What, in practice, does the Government intend to do to avoid the planned death of the Mazingarbe plant and the disappearance of jobs? After Bridgestone's disaster in Bethune, will you finally wake up to ensure that Pas-de-Calais does not become a huge social cemetery?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u95	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u96	Mr President, you are asking me about the situation at the Maxam Tan plant in Mazingarbe, which is followed with the utmost attention by the minister responsible for industry, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, and the entire government. I know this territory well and I am sensitive to the difficulties that its inhabitants and the employees of the company are going through. First of all, I would like to express our full support for the seventy-five employees of the factory and their families, whose future is under threat. The Government is fully mobilized on this issue and, more generally, for the entire mining basin, which is currently experiencing, as you have pointed out, serious difficulties. For the past two months, the minister and her cabinet have contacted all the buyers and mobilized the resources of the state services to secure a resumption of the site. In particular, the minister's office contacted Borealis and Yara the week after the announcement of the opening of the collective procedure, in order to explore with these companies the assistance they could provide for a resumption. He also exchanged with Titanobel, at the level of the Executive Committee, or Comex, throughout the month and again last week. The company presented an offer which seems credible and which saves jobs as industrial assets. This recovery is jeopardized by Maxam's attitude, which refuses to maintain a flow of orders that preserves the activity of the site. It would not be acceptable for the customer contracts captured by the Maxam Group to be diverted to the detriment of Mazingarbe's assets and employment. Moreover, it would not be acceptable for Mazingarbe's closure to be organised coldly to increase the market power of certain players, to the detriment of its industrial customers. It is important for everyone to take responsibility to protect this value chain. The minister intervened directly yesterday at Maxam headquarters in Spain, reminding the company's managers of their responsibility and the need for a responsible attitude in this matter. A very firm letter was sent to them in this regard. Exchanges were also held with the DREAL, the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing, and the Total Group to ensure that Titanobel has all the information on the environmental condition of the site and that a fair sharing of responsibilities, in a polluter-pays logic, is sought on this site. This is another important condition for recovery. We are open to the idea of exploring all possible ways and mobilising all the levers, including that of the recovery plan, which provides €35 billion for French industry. This could be done, for example, in the form of repayable advances or direct assistance if a project corresponding to one of the calls for proposals for a recovery plan is proposed, once the other conditions have been confirmed. This solution can be built with all actors in the territory. The region and the community of agglomerations can contribute to such an operation. We will continue, Mr President, a firm approach to ensuring that the maximum amount is made in order to accompany the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u97	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u98	Thank you, minister, but forgive me for telling you that your answer is the big bad blur! Indeed, it does not seem to me at all to meet the expectations of the seventy-five employees concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u99	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 1184, concerning aid to traders and self-employed persons during confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u100	My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery concerns the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises which are experiencing difficulties in obtaining government aid during and for periods of confinement. In some regions, more than 50% of entrepreneurs would have received nothing except partial unemployment. One of the reasons for this mismatch between the needs and response of the community, the complexity and multiplicity of the schemes, and the threshold for eligibility for aid, in particular the loss of 50 % of turnover, often out of reach for those who started an activity less than a year earlier, are called into question. I would therefore like to know, for the Sarthe department, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises which have applied and those which have actually been able to receive aid beyond partial unemployment. Minister, I would like to ask you for some real simplification measures to facilitate access by SMEs to the scheme. Should we not consider a specific scheme for young businesses in order to give them an increased chance of survival? I would also like to know what decisions could be taken to ensure the support of all companies, particularly those most isolated territorially or located outside business networks and consular networks? Finally, I would like to know the intentions of the Government regarding a collective effort that must be time-bound and allow, in due course, a sustainable economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u101	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u102	Madam Member, you are asking me about the use of public aid by small and medium-sized enterprises and about the difficulties some entrepreneurs may face in benefiting from it. In the face of the crisis, the Government's objective is to support all businesses, regardless of their situation. Firstly, an unprecedented effort is being made through the Solidarity Fund. Since March, we have changed in depth the criteria for access to this fund, removing those linked to last year's number of employees, turnover and reference income, so that it is accessible to as many people as possible. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Solidarity Fund has mobilised more than €8.4 billion, which has been disbursed to businesses. This very morning, my discussions with entrepreneurs confirmed to me that companies have already received support from this fund for the month of November, a period for which the declarations were available on 4 December: the release of funds was therefore easy and quick. As you know, this fund is intended to help the most affected companies in this period, particularly because of their sector of activity. It is a tool constantly designed and adapted to take into account the impacts of the financial crisis and to respond to the difficulties and situation of companies. In order not to penalize entrepreneurs who, at this difficult time, decided to start their business, the Government has taken strong steps to expand the scheme. The solidarity fund is therefore accessible to companies open until 30 September of the year 2020: we therefore adapt the criterion according to the turnover achieved until the opening. However, the criterion of declining turnover is necessary, as it is a basis on which the State services can calculate the solidarity fund's aid. In addition, to accompany the leaders who may have difficulties in accessing the various devices, a green number has been set up, which I invite you to relay – 0806000245 – which allows the services of the DGFiP and the USSRAF to respond to the requests of the professionals. For visiting one of these services a few days ago, I can tell you that it is very adapted to the needs of entrepreneurs. In addition, all support networks are mobilised, with the support of the State, to adapt their offer and to support these situations. You are also asking me about the figures of the Sarthe department, which you represent. On 6 December, 9321 companies were able to receive aid from the Solidarity Fund for an average amount of EUR 4161. In total, for your department, the overall envelope is €38.79 million. In addition, 3176 companies in your department wanted to apply for a state-guaranteed loan worth more than €468 million. The solidarity fund is, as you know, part of a wider range of business support schemes, with the EMP, or state-guaranteed loan, partial activity, exemption from charges and direct State loans. In addition to the emergency measures, which will continue to be mobilizable for as long as necessary, the Government is deploying an exceptional €100 billion recovery plan that will help to restore the French economy in a sustainable manner. This ambitious plan includes measures that take into account the recomposition effects of the crisis or the difficulties of certain sectors that are more lastingly affected. This is the case, for example, of the long-term partial activity, which will allow companies faced with a lasting reduction in their activity to preserve jobs and safeguard the skills of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u103	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, to put his question, No. 1163, on the future of Sanofi's production of active medicinal products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u104	On 5 November 2020, Sanofi began the information and consultation procedure on its Pluto project. This new company producing active ingredients would take over six Sanofi factories in Europe, two of which in France: those in Saint-Aubin-lès-Elbeuf, Seine-Maritime, and Vertolaye, close to my home. The drugs transferred to this company would appear to have been selected by Sanofi for their low profitability, because their manufacturing processes would leave little room for improvement to increase margins. Sanofi retains only a transitional shareholding of 30%, the introduction of this self-sustaining entity on the stock exchange renders its sustainability uncertain. This concern is aggravated by an internal note in Sanofi that highlights a follow-up to the Pluto project, called Alastor, and reveals that four other French chemical sites could be transferred in 2023, or even closed by 2024: Mourenx, Ploërmel, Aramon and Sisteron. The Sanofi group would thus cease any chemical production of active substances on French soil. Hence my four questions. Does the Government support the Pluto Plan and the creation of this new entity? In this case, will you promote the introduction of the public capital of the Public Investment Bank, BPIfrance, with, in return, a right of control to ensure the sustainability of the industrial sites concerned and their jobs? Third question: are you going to ask Sanofi to commit to abandoning the Alastor project, which threatens the maintenance of the French production sites of active ingredients? Finally, more broadly, what measures does the Government intend to take to ensure France's pharmaceutical independence and health sovereignty?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u105	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u106	Mr President Chassaigne, you are asking me about the manufacture in France of active substances by Sanofi and about the Pluto and Alastor projects, which, as you know, fall within the competence of the minister delegated to the industry. The Sanofi Group has recently simplified its organisation into five branches, in order to regain flexibility and coherence of action. It is for the laboratory to stay in the competition: I recall that in two years, Sanofi has fallen from fifth to seventh in the rankings of the world laboratories. The reorganization highlights three areas: specialty medicine, general medicine and vaccines, which are oriented towards future therapies. It takes into account the group's latest acquisitions. Two other branches made more autonomous concern general public medicine and the production of active ingredients. The latter branch is the subject of a strategy called Pluto by the group. It is about bringing together six European industrial sites for the manufacture of active ingredients, including two French – Vertolaye, in your constituency, and Saint-Aubin-lès-Elbeuf in Seine-Maritime – in order to create a European company. The aim is to have a new player to strengthen European sovereignty in the upstream phase of the manufacture of medicines. This company works mainly for third parties, Sanofi envisages the empowerment of its business while remaining in the capital of the new set. In order to answer employees' questions about Pluto and to detail the project, an information-consultation procedure was initiated at Sanofi's social and economic committee in France but also in the other countries concerned by the operation. The project was presented to the Government because it represents a new industrial response to supply failures observed before and during the health crisis. It is in line with the call for expressions of interest launched on 18 June 2020 by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery to relocate the production of certain critical medicines. Given Sanofi's strong industrial footprint in France with its eighteen factories and 25,000 employees, the Government is very attentive to its activity in our territory. So Sanofi's announcement in June 2020 of an investment and job creation in Marcy-l'Étoile to develop a flexible vaccine production unit is excellent news. The Government will ensure that the Pluto project also strengthens the group's strategy for industrial sovereignty. The Alastor project has not yet been confirmed: you will therefore understand, Mr President, that I am not making any comments at this stage, but if these rumours come to fruition, know that my colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher will exercise the same vigilance and will have the same objectives as with the Pluto project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u107	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u108	Thank you for your answer, Minister Delegate, but I note that it is paradoxical that Sanofi is cutting off part of its production – by having others produce the active ingredients – at the same time as the group moves from the fifth to the seventh place of pharmaceutical companies. You understand the concern that this can cause! Sanofi has made a commitment to stay at 30% in the capital of the new company, but for a limited period – five years I think. The fear is that the introduction of the autonomous group on the stock exchange will be an opportunity for the usual Monopoly game of pension funds and development funds. So Sanofi's project offers no guarantee for the future. The participation of the BPI in the capital would be one, but you did not reply on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u109	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to raise her question, No. 1182, on the relocation of flax spinning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u110	My question is indeed about the future of the flax industry in France. Our country is the world's largest producer of textile flax and more than a third of the national production comes from Hauts-de-France. Historically, our region was a land of textile factories and spinning plants, especially flax. Today, more than 80% of the harvested flax is exported to India, China and Poland. The economic damage is undeniable, as the relocation of this key stage of transformation has led to the destruction of jobs and dependence on countries whose social standards are incompatible with our model; These relocations have also led to a certain loss of know-how. As the ecological footprint of their purchases is worrying a growing number of our fellow citizens, the flax industry offers the French textile sector an opportunity for responsible and sustainable growth. I have had the opportunity to meet officials from this sector in my region who have told me of the difficulties they face, particularly in terms of training. They are mostly in favour of the re-establishment of flax spinning in our country, with the aim of mastering a 100% French production chain, promoting a path of excellence, responsible and ecological, creating sustainable employment and reducing dependence on abroad – a dependency that the health crisis has revealed and which concerns many areas, such as the provision of masks. Fortunately, our textile companies have been able to respond to the call and reorient their production massively in order to provide these essential elements to respect the barriers gestures! My question is: what does the recovery plan propose for our textile companies and in particular to encourage the re-establishment in France of flax spinning?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u112	The future of the sector is of certain importance since France is, as you have pointed out, the world's leading producer of textile flax. The quality of our production is recognized throughout the world; This should encourage us to master other aspects of the value chain such as spinning. The ambition of the minister in charge of the file is very clear: to build a complete industry for the production of this natural fibre with remarkable properties and to reapprove the entire value chain. It is the whole meaning of the France Recovery Plan that devotes 35 billion euros to industry. Many investment and modernization support schemes have thus been launched since September. They are very successful with industrial companies, since 6500 files were opened on the BPI France platform; 520 projects have already been labeled, and close to 500 million euros of direct aid will make it possible to make 2.3 billion euros of industrial investment. As the entire €550 million envelope for 2020 has already been committed, the Government has decided to increase it by €250 million. As for the projects of the linseed sector, they are now supported through several mechanisms, in particular those of the France Recovery Plan. I am thinking in particular of two calls to the project. The first is the call for projects under the national strand "Support for investment, modernisation in strategic sectors for industry", which aims to support investment, relocation or strengthening projects of industrial production units in strategic sectors in order to reduce the degree of dependence on non-European suppliers. In this respect, French production of natural fibres such as flax is well identified as a key sector. The second is the call for projects in the territorial component covering all sectors driven by the "Territories of Industry" scheme. We have already validated the financing of two projects in the sector and we are continuing to investigate other cases. Our mobilization for the future of this French sector is therefore complete, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u113	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u114	Minister, it would still be necessary for the industry to survive the crisis. Yesterday morning, a spinning company told me that it would not be able to benefit from the deferred payment of the USSRAF contributions, for example, because of its APE code. She did not understand why textile businesses could benefit, and she did not, when there was no wireless clothing. The entire production chain must therefore be taken into account. Beyond investments for the future, we must also allow them to withstand current shocks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u115	Once it's not customary, we took a little lead. I shall therefore suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u116	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u117	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor to put his question, No 1183, on the closure of ski lifts in winter sports stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u118	As a deputy elected in the Pyrenees, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the issue of opening up mountain resorts for Christmas holidays. Ski lifts are essential to encourage winter sports and mountain tourism. The decision to close them, taken by the President of the Republic while the Government had just begun a dialogue with the mountain actors, raised questions, and not only about the lack of communication between the Government and the Head of State. This decision, which has been taken over the long term, affects many of our fellow citizens for a number of reasons. Economic reasons, first. The economy of our valleys is totally dependent on the opening of mountain resorts and the operation of ski lifts. If the latter are closed, winter sports stations in the Occitanie region will lose some EUR 200 million between December and January. Geographical reasons, then. The Pyrenees form a natural border with Spain and Andorra, countries that will open their ski resorts. Where do you think French skiers will go if we close our resorts? Luchon is only 46 kilometers from Baqueira, the nearby Spanish station! And it is not the repressive response you are preparing that will change something: we cannot treat the French as children. Finally, reasons for sports practice: mountain professionals do not understand why ski lifts should be closed while the epidemic rather encourages outdoor sports and the danger of contagion is, in this case, low. Finally, the financial compensation you are announcing is not suitable for all territories. Indeed, you rely on the turnover of the last two years, which in the Pyrenees experienced a low snowfall. As a result, the benefits you intend to provide to mountain professionals are much lower than they would have been entitled to expect in the event of normal snowfall. This year seems to be a good snowfall. The Pyrenees are not the Alps and the Alps are not the Pyrenees: by providing a uniform response to different territorial situations, you reinforce inequalities and you do not give satisfaction to any territory. I therefore call on you to reconsider the decision to close the ski lifts and to allow the full and complete opening of the mountain resorts, obviously by providing for a strict and protective sanitary protocol, which would be fully applicable in small stations such as those in the Pyrenees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u119	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u120	There are not those who would like the good of the mountain and those who would like to create difficulties for it: we are all enthusiasts of the mountain and we all have at heart that it fully participates in the success of the destination France. However, the current health context must be taken into account. I assume you read the data presented yesterday by Professor Salomon. They show that we must continue to fight the epidemic if we are to win it. That is why, in a preventive way, in order to avoid having to open and close the stations during the season, the Head of State did indeed indicate that we would not open, at Christmas, the lifts, which are obviously a factor for the attractiveness of the stations. In the same way that a street attracts fewer people when its shops are closed, a lift leads, by definition, to a lot of mixing due to the attractiveness of alpine skiing. That is what we want to avoid. Once again, it is not cheerfulness of heart that such decisions are made. We want to preserve the heart of the season, which takes place especially around the holidays of February and until March, which requires that the opening of the season be shifted. That is why we will accompany the mountain actors, who are serious and responsible people. The Prime Minister will receive them again, for the third time in less than a month – that is, the attention he is paying to them – and will announce next Friday the accompanying measures for them. You've talked about the Pyrenees and the Alps, but there are other mountains in France, such as the Central Massif, the Vosges or the Jura. I went to the field, which allowed me to hear the expectations expressed, for example in the Puy-de-Dôme. In this way we will accompany not only the operators of lifts, but also, on a territorial basis, certain businesses which are currently not eligible for compensation schemes. It is clear that the turnover of a baker installed in a station is indexed to the influx in that station. That is why we need to move the sliders and deploy ad hoc devices. We will also create a community tax loss guarantee fund and allow seasonal recruits to benefit from partial unemployment. In short, we will spare no effort to help the French mountain pass this difficult course. I can assure you that this is not a posture: meetings are held several times a day with professionals, the ANEM – Association nationale des élections de la montagne –, DSF – Domaines skiables de France – or the ANMSM – Association nationale des maires des stations de montagne – to find the best way to answer the questions that arise, in a logic of proximity to the terrain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u121	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u122	I do not dispute the epidemiological data on covid-19. I would simply point out that it would be quite possible, in some small stations in the Pyrenees, to apply the sanitary protocols. I regularly fly to Paris. I can therefore testify to the fact that, at airports or in aircraft, passengers stay longer side by side than in stations and ski lifts, where users could very well wear masks and protect themselves. I ask you to take this reality into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u123	Look what happened at Verbier's station this weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u124	Mrs Sandra Marsaud, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1166, concerning compensation for the victims of drought in the Charente.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u125	My question is about taking into account the severe droughts in France, particularly in 2016 and 2018. These two major episodes of clay withdrawal-swelling – that is the term dedicated – have caused significant damage. In Charente alone, more than 600 houses are affected by structural works to be carried out on a building now cracked in depth. With an average cost of repairs estimated at 70000 euros per dwelling, these houses become both uninhabitable, irreparable and unsold for their owners. Twenty-two communes in my department have received their request for a natural disaster classification for the 2016 drought rejected. Last July, the Administrative Court of Poitiers invalidated this decision for sixteen of them. Since then, the judicial series has continued. The decision of the Government is therefore very much awaited by the affected victims, who hope that it will quickly put a definitive end to this case by returning to the insurers the responsibility to compensate them. In addition, an exceptional aid of €10 million is announced to compensate those affected by the 2018 drought whose municipalities are not in the state of natural disaster. As you can imagine, this sum alone will not solve the difficulties of the thousands of French people concerned, many of whom wonder on what criteria and under what conditions this aid will be awarded to them. More generally, as we know, these droughts are likely to be repeated and worsen. I therefore believe that it is essential to clarify the action taken by the State, but also by insurance companies, to compensate the victims of this particular phenomenon, which tends to become more widespread. What would be the Government's approach to reforming both the modalities for the recognition of natural disasters and the related compensation regime? How do you intend to anticipate the consequences of these phenomena in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u126	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u127	I know, honourable Member, how attentive you are to the consequences of these droughts, which actually upset the lives of the people concerned overnight. I still have in mind the drought of 2003 which at the time led to the opening of a large number of cases, for which the State had assumed its responsibilities. Everyone is aware that climate change is ravaging our soil through these events. Since May 2019, nearly 7,000 communes have been recognized as natural disasters as part of the 2018 episodes you mentioned and 2019, about one in five French communes. However, as you know, this recognition is only pronounced when drought episodes are abnormally intense. This is why it was decided to create an additional €10 million to compensate those affected by the 2018 drought whose municipalities were not in the state of natural disaster. Work is continuing to develop a list of criteria to be applied to compensate those affected. With regard to the situation of the 16 communes of Charente affected in 2016, I confirm that their file will be reviewed by the competent interministerial committee, in accordance with the judgement of the Administrative Court of Poitiers. Beyond this, more structural work will have to be undertaken on the management of these phenomena, which are expected to be repeated more and more frequently and which reveal certain limits of the market for the construction and renovation of individual houses. The General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF – and the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – CGEDD – were commissioned last September to propose concrete measures to improve the prevention and management of damage to the existing buildings caused by these droughts. Their conclusions will feed into a broader reform of the natural disaster guarantee regime. Your involvement in this issue and our discussions on this type of reform demonstrate the usefulness of our daily work and the work of Parliament. I would therefore like, once again, to draw my hat to greet, Madam Member, your perseverance in defending the victims of these climatic hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u128	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u129	Thank you for those answers. It is well known that long-term work must be carried out. However, I would like to urge the Government to stress that it is the entire territory that is concerned, and so it is on this scale that we must reflect. While it is probably very difficult to compensate the victims of past droughts a posteriori, I very sincerely believe that it is necessary to seek the action of the insurers. Of course, this is the responsibility of the Government, but parliamentarians – I am thinking in particular of my colleague Raphaël Gérard, who is present at my side and whose department of Charente-Maritime is also very much concerned – will also pay attention to the fact that insurers assume their responsibilities and help our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u130	Mrs Bouchet Bellecourt has the floor to put her question, No. 1180, concerning the police station in Fontainebleau.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u131	My question concerns the critical situation of the police station in Fontainebleau. First of all, let me regret the absence on these benches, on such an important issue for our security forces, of the Minister of the Interior or of the Deputy Minister for Citizenship. I have no doubt, Secretary of State, that all the encrypted elements will have been passed on to you, because the expectation is strong. For several years, the elected representatives of all sides have sounded the alarm about the deplorable working conditions of the members of the security forces: those who, with courage and a high sense of public interest, commit themselves to enforcing the laws of the Republic and protecting the French in an increasingly violent context feel abandoned by their hierarchy. We see it again this morning. How can they be wronged? What picture is given of the authority of the State when the wall of a police station collapses and destroys the public reception room as well as seven vehicles of officials, or when parts of the ceiling fall under the pressure of water leaks? Despite the work being done, the police can no longer provide security under these conditions. How can we not be shocked to hear, again last week, the satisfaction of the police when they finally get toilets for the users? How did we get there? When I tabled this oral question without debate, ministerial arbitration had not yet been rendered. The comparative study carried out three years ago by the department's departments established the technical feasibility of the project at Fontainebleau-Avon station. However, the site of the Fontainebleau hospital was retained. Former Mayor of Héricy, now a Member of Parliament, I pleaded for construction at the station to combat growing insecurity. In my view, this was a useful, coherent and fast solution that, close to the difficult neighbourhoods, was able to respond to the concerns of the more than 3000 Bellifontains who use the station every day – not to mention the inhabitants of the neighbouring communes. What a missed opportunity! You will have understood this, after this decision of the Minister of the Interior, my question relates to the reasons that prompted him to make this choice. If I am glad that this old case finally finds a way out, I do not want our police forces to be asleep with publicity effects. How long will the police have to wait before benefiting from this project? Four, five, ten years? What will be the cost to the various actors? I will conclude by wondering what solution the State intends to adopt to combat insecurity in the vicinity of Fontainebleau-Avon railway station. While the President of the Republic announced this morning the holding of a "Beauvau de la sécurité", the police officers on site no longer expect communication actions, but concrete actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u132	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u133	You are right, we have inherited a poor situation: in addition to the cuts in the police force carried out a few years ago, old buildings are added. The Fontainebleau police station was indeed one of the oldest in France. For my part, I am pleased that the Minister of the Interior took the bull by the horns and began to provide short-, medium- and long-term solutions. Very short-term responses were provided because the premises were not worthy of those who occupied them or of the public to be served. From this summer onwards, the minister has launched the so-called door-handle operation at national level, which aims to finance, for a total amount of 26 million euros, small daily work – painting, insulation, furniture or plumbing – in order to improve life in police stations. As a result, 2000 emergency operations were undertaken. As part of the "France Recovery" plan, we will also intervene in police stations by allocating €740 million. With regard to Fontainebleau, I would like to recall the actions that have already been carried out: an asbestos removal operation, the installation of a temporary fence following the collapse of the wall, the signing of an agreement with the town hall so that the staff can benefit from parking places in the Damesme barracks and, in 2020, the renovation of part of the ground floor. We will also deal, among other things, with the repair of the roof and the structure and the creation of sanitary facilities for the public. These efforts will continue in 2021 with the complete redevelopment of the Chief of Post and Hospitality space. The next objective is the establishment of a new police station. Several proposals had been made – indeed, if this file took a little time, as you pointed out, it was because each of them required expertise. Finally the police station will remain in Fontainebleau, it will be installed in the building of the Philardeau hospital, which once housed a barracks. I would like to welcome the Mayor's commitment to make a significant investment to then hand over the plot for a symbolic euro. This shows that the municipality is committed to ensuring that law enforcement agencies enjoy optimal working conditions. It is also the criterion of daily working conditions that has been decisive in the choice of location. As you know, the future building is close to the sub-prefecture, the High Court and the hospital, which represents a real operational advantage. Madam Member, you can count on the Minister of the Interior to make a good move on this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u134	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1187, concerning the fleet of helicopters in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u135	My question concerns the intervention of a civil security helicopter in the department of Lozère. For several years, we have been benefiting from a Dragon type helicopter during the summer months. The Lozère is about 78000 inhabitants, 2000 inhabited hamlets, an average altitude of 1000 meters and a sometimes difficult weather, for an area of more than 5100 square kilometers. I would add that it takes two or three hours to travel by road to the CHU, university hospitals, Montpellier, Clermont-Ferrand or Nîmes. The Lozère also has nearly 800 volunteer firefighters, representing almost 99% of men and women serving the population. The department includes the Tarn gorges, the Chassezac gorges and the Cevenole valleys, difficult reliefs. Despite all our efforts, it is often difficult or dangerous to ensure the safety of people. We have in Lozère a GRIMP, a group of recognition and intervention in perilous environments, whose vocation is not only regional but also national. I am not here trialing a system, being a recognized specialist in civil security issues, in permanent liaison with the Fédération nationale des sapeurs-fireurs de France. I simply wish to draw your attention to the particular case of the Lozère and ask you what response the State can give to this department and to all the volunteers who act every day, often to the detriment of their personal lives. I know that this issue is difficult and may concern other departments. But today it seems useful to me that a way be laid out to solve this delicate problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u136	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u137	A civil security strategy is based on a rapidly projectable operational capability in any part of the national territory. This is how civil security can carry out its mission. Among the national capabilities available to the DGSCGC, the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management, thirty-four helicopters arm twenty-three permanent bases, including two bases hosting two helicopters with a winter detachment of twenty-six helicopters and four additional detachments in the summer, or a total of thirty helicopters. In view of the necessary training and maintenance of the equipment, the theoretical requirement is therefore 38 helicopters. Many departments do not have a personal rescue helicopter – these are, I would remind you, national means. There are more than 20 of them outside the Paris region. When it is necessary to medicalize the rescues, they are triggered by the UAS medical regulator who then optimizes the means present on site – civil safety helicopter or UAS helicopter. Emergency helicopters operated by the national gendarmerie have a zone of action complementary to that of civil security. In view of the tourism activity in Lozère, the DGSCGC makes available to the prefect of the department, in Mende, one of its helicopters during the summer season. In 2020, since it could not do so, it was replaced by the national gendarmerie. Coverage of the out-of-season tourist needs is provided by the Montpellier-based civil security helicopter and by the SAMU helicopters of the neighbouring departments. The Director-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management instructed the Prefect of the Occitan region to analyse the situation in liaison with all local actors. It is currently under way. As part of the French economic rebound plan, the DGSCGC acquires two EC 145 D3 helicopters to be delivered at the end of 2021. With regard to the budget for an EC 145 helicopter, I would like to inform you that the last one, a model EC 145 C2, delivered in 2011, had a cost of €8.5 million TTC and that the next one, a model H 145 D3, to be delivered in October 2021, had a cost of €11.7 million. With regard to MCO, keeping in operational condition, know that the cost for the market alone, excluding labour, amounts to 1524 euros including the flight time. The co-financing of the departments relates to the rental of helicopters for the purposes of the UAS and not to the aircraft of the DGSCGC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u138	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u139	You understand the meaning of my question: the Lozère is a small rural department, in difficulty. You confirm the purchase of additional equipment, as indicated in the budget. However, I wanted to draw your attention to the current study: if mutualisation is an answer, we want the situation of the Lozère to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u140	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No. 1160, on schools in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u141	When I speak to you today to discuss the situation of schools in my constituency, in Aubervilliers, in Pantin and in Seine-Saint-Denis more broadly, I have a feeling of already seen – including when I see the absence on the bench of the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports. Whenever I can, I speak to the students, parents and teachers who no longer support you negligating a school that should be a priority. It does not happen six months without asking, in this House, when the Government will finally give settlements the human and material resources they need. It does not happen a month without me writing to the minister or rector of the Academy of Créteil to alert them about the difficulties of a college or high school in my constituency. Each time I get the same vague answers that deny reality: "Everything is fine" or "no wave," to use the words of Christine Renon, school principal in Pantin, who died last year, exhausted at work. Despite all the warnings, despite the tragedies, nothing changes, or worse, especially as the pandemic and its social consequences strike my department with particular violence, increasing the difficulties of a school already on the brink of a breakup. But you always refuse to take the necessary steps. Where are the health facilities and measures needed to ensure continuity of teaching while preserving the institutions of the pandemic? Where are they then that the buildings are already too small for too many students, that school medicine, school life and maintenance agents have long been reduced to the congruous portion and that the minister has refused to systematize the operation in half-groups? It took a week of staff mobilization to get this measure applied in high schools, but this was not granted in colleges. The minister and the hierarchy have stuck in denial, simply rebuffing an inapplicable health protocol on the ground, for lack of material resources. A whole symbol! What is the status of the emergency plan for education in Seine-Saint-Denis? Why don't you recruit enough teachers? It is necessary to do so if the crisis is to prevent further increases in school inequalities and further penalise already disadvantaged pupils. The parents' federations of students and the teachers' unions have told you this and repeated it. The President of the Republic refused to hire new teachers on the grounds that they were not being used to redress the country and that such a measure would make the deficit worse. The result: as every year, the non-replacement – we should say the shortage – of teachers is wreaking havoc, the missed hours are accumulating. I could tell you about the Lavoisier College in Pantin, where almost 150 students did not have English or French classes for weeks; Rosa-Luxembourg College in Aubervilliers, where there is a shortage of professors of mathematics and history-geography; classes that should have been opened and that have not been opened... The list would be long. She'll lie down all the time until you do anything. So when are you finally going to open your eyes to this reality you don't want to see? When are you going to stop sacrificing the youth of Seine-Saint-Denis, to despise the efforts of teachers and field staff? When are you going to implement an education emergency plan in this department?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u142	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u143	I am very pleased to answer you today in my capacity as Secretary of State for Priority Education to Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, and to remind you of our commitments to the students and families of the Seine-Saint-Denis – because they are not lacking. With regard to the first level, 113 teacher jobs have been awarded, even though this department is experiencing a demographic decline, with 1,170 pupils less enrolled in schools. This additional allocation allows, in particular, the completion of the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 and the continuation of the divisional classes. More than 2000 classes are now split in Seine-Saint-Denis. We have significantly improved the student supervision rate. There are an average of 22 students per class in the department as a whole, with rates generally well below those in the priority education schools. In total, since 2017, 1,351 net positions of first degree professors have been created in Seine-Saint-Denis. As regards the second degree, the resources allocated to the Academy of Créteil also go well beyond the national average, since 500 additional teaching jobs were allocated in this new year. On the other hand, in order to retain the staff of the state, the Seine-Saint-Denis plan includes – but you know that, Mr. Member of Parliament – a bonus of 10000 euros awarded after five years of exercise in the department...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u144	We are still waiting for the implementing decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u145	I didn't cut you off, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u146	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u147	All teachers in Seine-Saint-Denis are affected by this measure. We are also aware that the personalized accompaniment of each of the students is crucial, especially in Seine-Saint-Denis. Your department legitimately benefits from these means since 16000 overtime hours are dedicated to this mission in the first degree and 50000 hours in the second degree. In addition, in order to provide the public education service for each of the pupils, the Academy of Créteil has embarked on a campaign to recruit contract teachers and educational assistants in order to overcome, inter alia, the absences of teachers who have been declared vulnerable. I would also like to recall the deployment of the educational cities, with the support of EUR 100 million over three years. In Seine-Saint-Denis, five municipalities involved benefit primarily from the means aimed at equal opportunities and the fight against poverty. Finally, Member of Parliament, you are asking me about the situation of two colleges in your constituency. Very precisely, regarding Lavoisier College in Pantin, the English teacher you mentioned, declared a vulnerable person, has been replaced since 7 October. Overtime has been planned to make up for lost hours. As far as Mr Rosa-Luxembourg of Aubervilliers is concerned, all pupils today benefit from courses in mathematics and history-geography. While these two disciplines are particularly tense in the department, alternatives have always been found.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u148	It is time to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u149	I'm hurrying, but the Member himself took a lot of time to ask his question. I would also like to reiterate my thanks and gratitude to all the teachers of France who, in a particularly difficult period, take up their mission of instruction every day with commitment and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u150	Mrs Lise Magnier spoke about her question, No. 1156, concerning the accompaniment of pupils with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u151	I would like to ask you about the situation of accompanying students with disabilities, the AESH. We know how useful these staff are alongside students with disabilities. AESH is an indispensable link in inclusive school, and I think we can agree that school is not just school time, but also includes those times of activity, sharing and openness to culture or sport that are extracurricular time. Like many of my colleagues, I have been alerted by families about a difficult situation: for extra-curricular time, the funding of the AESH does not seem to be harmonized across the country. Some DSDEN – Directorates of the Department of National Education – fund the AESH for these activities, others not. However, the National Education Code states that accompanying students with disabilities may be recruited to carry out support functions for the school inclusion of such pupils, including outside school time. The Council of State also recalled the need for national education to finance the AESH on extracurricular time. You will understand, Madam Secretary of State, that such a differentiated application in different departments poses great difficulties for the families concerned because they are sometimes obliged to finance their children's extracurricular companions themselves. So, could you please tell me what the exact regulation in this area is? Should it not be applied uniformly in the national territory? In any case, what does the Ministry of National Education envisage in order to clarify the situation and avoid these disparities experienced as injustices by families?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u152	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u153	The support of pupils with disabilities during extracurricular time is a complex regulation and has given rise to different interpretations. In a decision of 20 November 2020, the Council of State clarified the interpretation of legislation and regulations. Thus, when the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities finds that a child who is educated in an ordinary environment is to receive human assistance, it shall grant him the individual assistance provided for in Article L. 351-3 of the Education Code up to an hourly quota which is to be determined by him or her and which, having regard to his or her object, may relate only to the time devoted to schooling. As such, where the child is enrolled in a public or private educational institution under contract, it is the responsibility of the State to take responsibility for the organization and financing of such individual assistance for school time, if necessary by recruiting an AESH in accordance with the procedure laid down in article L. 917-1 of the Education Code. In addition, where a territorial authority organises, during the opening hours of the establishment, a school catering service or activities complementary to educational and training activities or extra-curricular activities, it is incumbent on it, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Social Action and of the families, to ensure that, without prejudice to the conditions laid down for all pupils, those with disabilities may, with the assistance of technical aids and human assistance to which they are entitled under their right to compensation, have effective access, in accordance with the provisions of that Code and the Code of Social Security; the municipalities, departments and regions bear the financial burden. In its decision, the Conseil d'État also referred to possible solutions for the intervention of non-school-time AESHs. AESHs recruited by the State on the basis of a decision of the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities may intervene "including outside school time". As such, they may, in particular, be made available to the territorial community under the conditions laid down in Article L. 916-2 of the Education Code, i.e. on the basis of an agreement concluded between the community concerned and the employer under Article L. 216-1 of the same Code, namely that it is for the territorial community to ensure the financial burden of making such provision available. They may also be directly employed by the territorial community for those hours completed outside school time or be recruited jointly by the State and the community as now provided for in the provisions of article L. 917-1 of the Education Code in their drafting resulting from the so-called law for a school of trust of 26 July 2019. Finally, the Council of State specifies that when a child accompanied during school time uses the school catering service or participates in all or part of the supplementary or extra-curricular activities organized in his or her school, it is for the State to determine with the territorial community who organizes this service and these activities and, where appropriate, how the caregiver may intervene with the child so as to ensure, in the interests of the child, the continuity of the assistance provided to him or her.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u154	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u155	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the lighting you're bringing me. I regret, of course, that it is up to the local and regional authorities to ensure the funding of the AESHs for extra-curricular time, as this will create further disparities at the territorial level. We need to work globally, state and communities – as you have mentioned conventions between the two – to harmonize procedures so that all children with disabilities can participate in these extracurricular activities so necessary for their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u156	Mr Gaël Le Bohec, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1171, on community hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u157	The public hospital must be supported more than ever, because in order to overcome the covid-19 pandemic, which proves to be a race against the clock, caregivers are out of breath. The quinquennium is marked by a desire to reconnect with the territories. In the field of public health, they must not only be supported but, more importantly, be seen as an essential link in the response to the health crisis. The public hospital has been experiencing difficulties for many years and the Government has decided to support it. The planned investments are unprecedented: EUR 1 billion for the new hospital in Rennes, for example, and almost as much for the hospital in Nantes over the next ten years. On the other hand, the Redon hospital, which you visited, Mr Secretary of State, on 20 January last as part of your consultations for the 1000 days journey – and I am all the more pleased that you were answering – has received only 10 million euros over the last ten years... It's 100 times less. Regrettably, Redon is no exception: the Court of Auditors recently issued a very critical report on local hospital groups, showing that while they had to respond to the problem of unequal access to care, HHTs are very heterogeneous in their provision of care; worse, it turns out that people in rural areas have 20% less recourse to hospital care than their urban fellow citizens. While the pandemic affects the entire territory, there cannot be forgotten territories – especially since the hospitals of the metropolises are embolised and their capacities in number of non-exponential beds, those of our territories can deburden their resuscitation services. This is an opportunity to seize. On the other hand, the inhabitants of the territories need medical services close to home, including certain specialties: maternity services, but also the paediatric medical and judicial reception units, which must be supported financially and further developed at a time when the health crisis is causing a significant increase in domestic violence. Located in the heart of a large rural area, Redon Hospital is responding to this challenge of proximity. Other States than ours have clearly understood the importance of proximity to hospital services. While France invests in proportion to population density, some states, such as the Nordic countries, are developing public investment inversely proportional to the number of inhabitants in order to balance their territory. Similarly, in Quebec, a vast territory where rural areas account for 90% of the area, even though only 29% of its population resides, rural life is seen as a vehicle for opportunities, and it is recognized that its inhabitants must benefit from a dynamic socio-economic fabric and comprehensive public services. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, the Government's commitment to rural development. It devotes a whole secretariat of state to this policy, which is an undeniable step forward, and is committed to the rural agenda. It is necessary to rethink the funding of the public hospital in terms of both population density and, above all, proximity to our citizens. While the City Heart Action device is in full deployment and bearing its first fruits, can we consider for the hospital a similar dynamic, a "hospital heart" device?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u158	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u159	The Ségur de la santé confirmed the massive investment plan for the hospital announced by the President of the Republic in Mulhouse last March: 15.5 billion euros over ten years will be spent on the health sector in order to clean up the situation of a number of establishments, restore the capacity to invest and also support the financing of projects. By 2021, €650 million will be allocated by regional health agencies, with RHAs, with institutions with particularly urgent current investment needs being served as a matter of priority. This ambition for hospital investment is accompanied by a major change in the system for the management and governance of hospital investments through a renovated, largely deconcentrated system, which is currently the subject of consultation with all stakeholders. Investment decisions will thus be based more on regional health agencies and local elected representatives, who will be closely associated with them in order to respond to the specific challenges of the territories. As regards the one you are referring to, I would point out that the CHU in Rennes is receiving national aid of EUR 87 million, which represents 20% of the first phase of the work. As for the hospital in Redon-Carentoir, which you recalled that I had the pleasure of visiting him with you a few months ago as part of the "first 1000 days of the child", the ARS committed itself to supporting the reconstruction project and, thanks to the exchanges you had with Mr.Mulliez, this was held in January 2020 at a meeting that brought together the elected representatives of Redon, including yourself. This support amounts to EUR 9 million, i.e. also 20% of the cost of the work, thus meeting the old site and the need to have a tool on site that corresponds to the new standards of reception conditions and patient care. It should be recalled that this hospital is also receiving significant regional aid because of its fragile financial situation: the ARS paid it more than €3.3 million in 2018 and 2019 as operating aid, and it is particularly mobilised to strengthen the provision of care, including surgery and obstetrics, that the Redon-Carentoir intercommunal hospital brings to the population of a territory between Rennes, Nantes and Saint-Nazaire. I once again welcome, honourable Member, your commitment to the provision of care in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u160	The next speaker is Mr François Jolivet, to put his question, No 1172, on telemedicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u161	My question is aimed at drawing the Government's attention to the ten million French people who live in a medical desert – a concept that is also uncertain because it is not legal. If I take the example of my department of Indre, in the Central Region, 83% of its inhabitants are expected to obtain a referral doctor in 2028 under an ARS commitment. This means that 17% will still not benefit from it. In passing, I, as Special Rapporteur on housing credits, observe that if there is a right to housing, there is no right to the referent doctor, nor is there any right to maternity less than one hour from home. The situation that you and your minister inherit, Mr. Secretary of State, is unbearable because of a lack of anticipation on the part of the Ministry of Health and probably also of the Ministry of Higher Education regarding the training of new doctors – although I welcome the progress that represents the abolition of the numerus clausus and, in the Central region, the creation of 250 internal posts: without interns, no doctor in the territories. In the wake of the current health crisis, the French want to change their way of life and return to rural areas. This crisis also reminds us that urban density is an enemy in terms of public health since it encourages promiscuity and therefore the spread of the virus. If access to health is not a right, since the principle of equality cannot apply in this regard, it is nevertheless a factor of attractiveness. How can we accommodate people without doctors? My department has the least number in the Centre region. We have been able to draw the consequences, everyone is fighting to get them, and investments in this direction are continuing. Thus, the entire department will be fibrated in 2025. That's why I wanted to question you. First of all, there is a lack of knowledge of the State's strategy for telemedicine at home, a new tool that could be used by residents who fail to access a referral physician. Secondly, many local authorities want to buy medical lifts, but so far we do not know who is taking care of the patient attendant. Finally, the general practitioners of Indre, aware of the increasing difficulties faced by the inhabitants of the department in gaining access to medicine, wish to equip themselves with this tool and would also like to know the strategy of the State in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u162	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u163	The use of telemedicine and telecare practices exploded during the health crisis. While there were 10,000 weekly consultations prior to the crisis, there were more than one million at the height of the epidemic. This cultural evolution of practices is the completion of a legal, economic and organisational process that you evoke and probably meets the will of our fellow citizens to change their way of life and their place of residence or activity. Regional health agencies are responsible for supporting health care providers in the engineering of their projects and for financing their equipment. In order to encourage the development of remote activities, their 100% reimbursement has been decided, and we have anticipated future developments by allowing the reimbursement of telemedicine acts for midwives and by allowing telehealth activities. The relaxations made necessary by the health crisis – including the practices of telemedicine by midwives that I mentioned at the moment – will be incorporated into ordinary law. Telehealth should continue to be disseminated. The goal of the Ségur de la santé is even to accelerate the practice of teleconsultation. We want to continue to maintain the momentum initiated during the crisis. As far as your territory is concerned, honourable Member, I would like to refer to some data relating to the Centre-Val de Loire region and the Indre department. Those provided by the region's primary health insurance fund last September show that 30 per cent of general practitioners in the region carry out at least one teleconsultation per week. Overall, there are ten times more teleconsultations than in 2019 with nearly 4000 teleconsultations per week. In addition, as you know, for several years now, a telemedicine support team, consisting of ten people, has been funded by the regional health agency. Through this system, twenty-eight EHPADs from Indre out of forty-five and thirteen out of twenty multidisciplinary health centres received specific support. To be completely complete, I would add that funding has been provided to provide a regional telehealth platform that will allow professionals to carry out teleconsultations and tele-expertise free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u164	Mr Robert Therry has the floor to put his question, No. 1175, on the French Blood Establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u165	For fifty-seven years, I have been a member of the board of directors of a blood donor association, which I have been chairing for more than thirty years, and I am particularly aware of this sector and its difficulties. I would like to know what measures will be taken to help the EFS, the French Blood Establishment, to deal with its serious problem of recruiting doctors, nurses and laboratory technicians. Today, 196 jobs are to be filled throughout the national territory, resulting in an overload of work for active employees, resulting in fatigue and tension. In addition, I would like to stress the lack of official recognition of the staff of the EFS who are fully involved in this period of serious health crisis, but whose commitment has not yet been recognised, particularly in the context of the Segur of Health. Staff have already alerted their management and the Government to the catastrophic consequences of the non-revalorization of salaries and career paths. This staff deserves an upgrade at least equal to that proposed in the framework of the Ségur de la santé, as well as a dedicated financial envelope to negotiate the renovation of the classification of jobs and associated remuneration. Secretary of State, I know that your firm received a trade union delegation on 5 November, and that the following message was sent to it: the activity of the EFS must be maintained to meet the needs of the health system. The staff were warmly thanked for their involvement in maintaining the continuity of the activity, including that of the collection. At the same time, the SFE must be able to meet the challenge of its transformation plan in order to ensure self-sufficiency in blood products, complementarity with health facilities, strengthening risk management and preparing for tomorrow's challenges. I would like to know how it is intended to remedy what can be termed injustice. All the more so as the agents of the EFS are confronted with the epidemic of covid-19 and all the risks it poses. I would also like to know your projects in order to finally achieve a true recognition of the commitment of volunteers, so exemplary in terms of solidarity and whose interventions are essential throughout the process of collection: promotion of blood donation, installation of places of collection, accompaniment of donors.... Of course, since 1985, on the initiative of the United Nations, there has been a World Volunteer Day. Telethon is a great example of this commitment, but all these volunteers, whatever they may be, would deserve more official encouragement from our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u166	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u167	Mr President, your question gives us the opportunity to pay tribute first and foremost to the work and commitment of the volunteers involved in the blood donation industry, and to associations such as the one in which you have been invested for many years. I also thank you for your concern, as a Member of Parliament this time, about the French Blood Establishment – you are not the only parliamentarian to question the Government about it; Several of your colleagues have had discussions on this subject with me or with Olivier Véran, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, either in the National Assembly or in the Senate. The Government is obviously very attentive to the situation of the French Blood Establishment, as well as, overall, that of all the actors in the sector. That is why, as you probably know from the summer of 2020, it was decided to provide an additional grant of EUR 10 million to enable the institution to deal with the economic consequences of the health crisis. In addition, a co-vid bonus was awarded to SFE personnel who continued their mission during the outbreak. It is evidence of recognition or at least special attention in their direction. The robust organisation of the EFS has maintained the self-sufficiency of transfusion safety during the health crisis. The professionalism and involvement of team staff is of course one of the main challenges. The message recalling the importance of the donation of blood, distributed by the Ministry of Health on March 18, as well as the communication and call for donations made by the institution itself throughout this period, also helped to maintain the stock of blood products. A number of concerns were expressed during the crisis in this regard; We have collectively been able to deal with the situation. However, the French Blood Establishment, like so many other health-care institutions that we have been discussing lately, is experiencing difficulties in recruiting for jobs or in territories in tension, which have been exacerbated during the crisis. The transformation of the institution, necessarily carried out after a constructive dialogue with its supervisory authorities, must help to alleviate these tensions, in particular by modernising the collection offer, without calling into question neither the very strong partnership with blood donor associations nor the respect for the ethical principles laid down by law, in particular that of volunteerism which applies to the donation of blood in France – a principle to which we are obviously all very attached. The voluntary movement is involved in the promotion of donation and the organization of collections – in the reception of donors, in particular. I repeat that, by its role, it also contributes to the retention of donors and to the sharing of the values associated with the donation of blood, which are citizenship, solidarity, generosity and gratuity. By supervising the EFS, the public services of the State ensure the privileged relations between the establishment and the various associations of blood donors, which guarantee the sustainability of the French model to which we are so attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u168	Mr Robert Therry has the floor, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u169	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answers. It seems to me that last week, during questions to the Government, Mr. Olivier Véran went a little further with regard to the 183 euros of increase attributed to certain employees in hospitals. Those who have not yet benefited from this upgrading, whether they work at the French Blood Establishment or in other medical facilities, are on the verge of redressing the injustice to which they are subjected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u170	Mr Olivier Dassault has the floor to put his question, No. 1176, on vaccination against covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u171	Secretary of State, every Frenchman is eager to turn the page of the pandemic, to put an end to the fear of approaching others and the uncertain futures. Optimism points to 2021 and the authorisation of vaccines to be placed on the market. In Louis Pasteur's country, scientific audacity is inseparable from rage to relieve humanity. The operation is therefore vital, visual pilotage is prohibited and a strategy must be rigorously defined. Last Thursday, the Prime Minister presented an elementary road map, a timetable for the first vaccinations and the consents requested, but several questions remain outstanding. Is a serological test planned upstream to avoid injection to immunized people after infection? Not all EHPADs are medical institutions: which health professionals will be allowed to sting residents as well as staff? I have noted that general practitioners will be involved; But what about pharmacists, nurses – community health actors who have shown their effectiveness in successive seasonal influenzaes? Will they be informed, involved, solicited? The last major uncertainty lies in France's ability to respect the vaccine supply and distribution chain. To maintain their effectiveness, some products must be stored at less than 80 degrees – or at less than 20 degrees, but for a maximum of 15 days: how will the doses be stored? Very few devices are capable of producing such a low temperature and superfreezers are already out of stock. The pharmacists I interviewed in Beauvais confirm that their cabinets do not exceed 2 or even 8 degrees. Apart from the American vaccine, will it be possible to choose another vaccine, for example, English or Chinese? You may not be able to answer me, but when will we know the duration of the vaccine's effect and its level of effectiveness? Mr Secretary of State, could you give us some insight into the vaccination strategy adopted by France and reassure us of the operational nature of your policy from the beginning of the year to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u172	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u173	Sir, the Member, I will try – as much as I can – to reassure you about our strategy. You said: the vaccination campaign is getting ready and the first elements of the vaccination strategy are beginning to be revealed; The Prime Minister mentioned them last week. We have been apprehensive since the beginning of the crisis, so there is no question of piloting on sight. It's about making the right decisions based on our knowledge of the virus. As you have noted, the different vaccines have different profiles – whether they are the number of doses or the method of injection and storage. The scientific authorities – starting with the High Health Authority – therefore make recommendations based on the state of knowledge. These, which are regularly updated thanks to information shared by the laboratories, feed into the political decision and vaccine strategy that we are developing. More specifically, the Government has already purchased a number of adapted freezers; They are currently being deployed and qualified and will continue to be delivered until the end of December. The Government has also purchased vaccination and reconstitution equipment in advance in order to be able to start the vaccination campaign calmly, which EHPADs will benefit as a matter of priority. Pharmacists are not meant to equip themselves with freezers since the vaccine is kept for five days at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees; the aim will therefore be to carry out vaccination within a time frame compatible with this storage time. The High Health Authority gave a specific opinion on the vaccination strategy presented by the Government and the Prime Minister last week defined its priority audiences. In addition, additional questions were sent to the Committee, in particular as regards the impact of serology on the individual benefit-risk balance of vaccination. At this stage, it appears that the serological status is neutral over the priority chosen by the High Health Authority. For the first phase, the vaccine act will be carried out after medical consultation and a doctor will be present – either to carry out the vaccination or to supervise it. The question of the intervention of other health professionals will then arise quite naturally; However, it needs to be studied in advance and will have to be decided on the basis of the consultations which we are going to carry out with the various actors and, ultimately, in the opinion of the High Health Authority. That, honourable Member, is the few things that I could share with you this morning – as we know it at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u174	Mr Olivier Dassault has the floor, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u175	Thank you, Secretary of State, for all this clarification. I note that all of this is only valid at the present level of our knowledge. The vaccination strategy opens a new chapter in the management of the health crisis and the majority and the opposition express the same wish: to free the French while ensuring their health security. Each step must be determined and adapted – it is essential – in relation to the actors of the territories; Since the beginning of the economic and health crisis, communities, health professionals, personal assistance services, as well as many companies have demonstrated their capacity to act and adapt in order to ensure that the French and to protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u176	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to put her question, No. 1177, on the number of psychiatrists in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u177	The shortage of psychiatrists and the disparity in their distribution in the territories – to the detriment of rural areas – is particularly worrying. The situation is becoming increasingly critical. Inequalities between territories are widening and the number of barriers to the recruitment of both psychiatrists and general practitioners is increasing. Moreover, in the Haute-Loire region, as in other parts of France, some causes further exacerbate the phenomenon. Thus, the misallocation of interns, particularly in the most remote areas, illustrates the unfair treatment of some territories. Some regions are professionally more attractive, while others are real medical deserts. In Haute-Loire, interns in psychiatry depend on the CHU – university hospital centres – of Clermont-Ferrand, Lyon and Saint-Étienne and they practice, for the most part, in the cities. The lack of transparency in the allocation of intern and junior doctor positions, the unequal treatment between CHU and outlying institutions, as well as between the public and the private sector, the non-recognition of practice in private institutions for the examination of hospital practitioners, the virtual impossibility of obtaining a secondment from the public hospital centre to a private institution and the obligation to carry out a probationary year in a public institution for new hospital practitioners are additional constraints that prevent the recruitment process. Departments – such as those of the Haute-Loire or the Allier – are thus left without an intern, which constitutes a profound injustice for patients and institutions. The current medical shortage jeopardizes the continuity and security of care, the development of future projects, even the maintenance of activity and the capacity of institutions to respond to psychiatric missions entrusted to them. Shortage, which worsens over time, increases the daily workload of those who remain, with fatigue and discouragement leading to fear of new departures. Retiring psychiatrists are struggling to be replaced and the majority of job offers remain unanswered. The age pyramid of current practitioners is a source of real concern. To ensure continuity of care, many institutions rely on interim psychiatrists. With a daily cost of 606 euros, this puts institutions – both public and private – in catastrophic financial situations. In addition, the involvement of temporary workers in institutions is limited: little or no participation in the life of the institution, reluctance to ensure guards and periodicity, lack of long-term vision for patients. The interim is involved in the development of a two-speed psychiatric medicine that does not guarantee the quality of patient follow-up or the suitability of care. In this regard, foreign internals are a real asset, but require a significant training effort of several months upon arrival. If they often do not stay in the institution, they still represent real support. Over the past year, in my department, many practitioners have left the institutions to settle as Liberals. These defections were largely related to the classification of the rural revitalization zones of the Haute-Loire. All these constraints hinder the proper functioning of psychiatric institutions, while they are part of very positive change dynamics, with arrangements for care more in line with today's psychiatry and more oriented towards outpatient care. This dynamic can only be maintained if it is supported by a sufficient number of medical personnel, available and motivated. We all know this: unfortunately, the crisis of the covid -19 will greatly increase the need for psychiatry. However, many departments will not be able to manage the increase in patients or ensure adequate care follow-up. Mr Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to implement to remedy the cruel shortage of psychiatrists, at national level but also and especially in the more eccentric or rural territories? What do you intend to do to ensure the placement of interns in psychiatry in departments without universities, in order to bring more equality in the provision of care throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u178	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u179	You may be referring to psychiatry for adults, honourable Member, but we could see the same difficulties with child psychiatry. You know the subject well; So you know that the difficulties encountered by psychiatry do not date from the crisis of covid-19. In the very short term, however, and in order to respond to the emergency, the Government has paid particular attention to the provision of psychiatry care, with the establishment of a national crisis unit whose objective was to enable close follow-up and to provide the necessary institutional responses in the light of the changing situation. To capitalize on the experiences revealed by the crisis – because, here as elsewhere, I am convinced that we can draw something positive from it – we have identified the alternative activities proposed by the psychiatry institutions – either on a face-to-face or at a distance – and the ministry has organized a feedback to better understand the transformations that will contribute to further improving access to psychiatry care. The demographic deficit of psychiatrists in the city is indeed significant. The doctors' association had already made this observation, in 2015, in its regional demographic atlas, which, for example, counted 111 psychiatrists in regular activity – liberal or mixed – in Auvergne, with a presence of these professionals around the large agglomerations, while the Cantal had no liberal psychiatrists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u180	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u181	In response to the fears of young professionals at the time of their establishment as a liberal, support has been provided by health insurance and regional health agencies. The start-up contract will cover all medical specialties – including psychiatry – from 2021 onwards, by allowing a young person, who is under one year of age, to settle as a liberal in an area in need of doctors and to receive financial support in the first year, as well as in case of sick leave. In conclusion, as far as interim measures are concerned, Article 10 of the draft law on improving the health system through trust and simplification, of which Member Stéphanie Rist is rapporteur, and which the Assembly voted on at first reading, provides for the establishment of a new arsenal to combat inappropriate practices and regulate the excessive rates of medical intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u182	Mrs Emilie Cariou, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1190, concerning the channels of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u183	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the attractiveness of the care systems, particularly in EHPAD and SSIAD – home nursing services – and more specifically the situation of the Meuse and the Far East. The health situation has brought home care and care to the dependent elderly, particularly affected by the crisis of the covid-19; Both private and public sector staff have mobilized. The extreme nature of the situation now raises fears of an unprecedented drop in the number of staff, due to a crisis of vocations and an increase in the number of departures. What public policies does the Ministry of Solidarity and Health pursue in order to keep in business professionals – caregivers, nurses, doctors – who have been particularly affected by the crisis and are at risk of abandoning it? How does it use the levers of initial and continuing training to recruit new skilled professionals? In addition, what actions, if any, have your departments undertaken with other ministries to develop, together with the departmental councils – particularly those of the border departments which, like the Meuse with Luxembourg, are subject to strong competition – a response to this problem? Could you make a comparative assessment of the effort made by the communities – both the Grand-Est region and the Meuse department –, based on their obligations and skills, to support staff in this industry? Concerning the premiums paid to care professionals, in connection with the crisis of the covid -19, we find that there are considerable disparities between the employees in public establishments, in SSIAD or who are directly employed by the helpers; Could you give us a detailed account of the assessments carried out to estimate the risks of departure in certain sectors due to the misallocation of the aid, as well as of the measures to be taken to combat the destabilization which would result from massive departures of the employees concerned? Could you give us the balance sheet of the payment, since the beginning of the quinquennium – every year, at the national and departmental level, of the activity bonus to the caregivers, especially the caregivers and nurses who can have access to it? Luxembourg offers much higher average wages, which increases staff volatility. What about the cooperation policies developed with our neighbours, in particular Belgium and Luxembourg, to maintain the comparative attractiveness of the Meuse territory for its caregivers? The Luxembourg authorities have indicated, by means of the press, that they are in favour of mechanisms to co-finance their training; Is it possible, possibly on an experimental basis, to apply them in the departments concerned by the competition of Luxembourg? Finally, these territories are also classified as areas of rural revitalization. If it is neither sufficient nor ideal, this tax and social exemption scheme has at least the merit of existence, and I personally pleaded for its extension during the debates on the financial laws for 2018 and for 2021. What are the consequences of this zoning, in France and in the department of Meuse, on care professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u184	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u185	Madam Member, I will try to answer as many of your questions as possible in the time allotted to me and I will be able to return in writing – or in future exchanges – to those that I could not have answered. Thank you for your attention to the situation of professionals working with the elderly. The indispensable role they play during the crisis is not often praised enough. The Government, aware of the difficulties they face, has made commitments to ensure financial recognition – even if, as you mentioned, the stakes are not purely financial. An exceptional premium of up to 1500 euros has been paid to both EHPAD and SSIAD professionals. More permanently, the revalorisation of remuneration – up to 180 euros net per month for all staff in EHPAD – has recently been implemented within the framework of the Health Security, and other measures are also being implemented, in particular to train more caregivers and thus facilitate recruitment. The purpose of the Skills Investment Plan is thus to increase the number of places available for training. You are also probably aware that Michel Laforcade, former director general of the regional health agency of Nouvelle-Aquitaine, has been entrusted with a mission on the professions of autonomy, whose mission integrates all professionals in the medical-social sector in order to suggest proposals that we wish both very operational and very global to enhance these professions. He will initially evaluate an extension beyond the EHPAD alone of the measures taken. It is therefore likely that the initial assessments will be prepared on this occasion. With regard to the Meuse, your department, it is gratifying that some EHPADs are already engaged in actions aimed at promoting the quality of life of professionals. In the Greater East region, three innovative and "learning" collective actions were launched involving two Meuse EHPADs. These long-term, structural measures are also linked with an emergency response linked to the health crisis. With Brigitte Bourguignon and all the partners involved, we launched a recruitment campaign on the professions of old age. This campaign is intended to help employers find human resources reinforcements for one-time needs, but also to recruit longer-term staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u186	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No. 1161, concerning the situation in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u187	My question is also addressed, through you, to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State for Children and the Family. On November 17, 2017, in Tourcoing, Emmanuel Macron announced "a great national mobilization for cities and popular neighbourhoods". Two years later, on October 31, 2019, Édouard Philippe, then Prime Minister, travelled to Seine-Saint-Denis, accompanied by many ministers. He also delivered a speech highlighting "the unstandard difficulties of this territory" and promising to "reinvest massively in all the public services of the department". Another year later, on 25 October, Jean Castex, in turn, would give a speech to Bobigny. In total, three years of announcements and, unless they are a demagogue, nothing has changed in people's lives. On the contrary, the covid-19 pandemic increased the difficulties of the Seine-Saint-Denis. In the first wave, we had the sad privilege of being the second most bruised department. The Government had announced that this should never happen again. Six months later, the Seine-Saint-Denis was once again the most affected department in Île-de-France, with mortality increasing by 23%. Let me remind you that there are only two full hospital beds for every 1000 inhabitants, four times less than in Paris. During the Ségur de la santé, Emmanuel Macron made a commitment that the state would take back some of the hospital debt, which is happy. But, six months later, the budget of the André-Grégoire hospital in Montreuil, in my constituency, remains overwhelmed by its debt, which costs 8 million euros a year and which, of course, prevents it from recruiting staff to cope with the influx of patients. The cities of Montreuil and Bagnolet have, moreover, experienced a strong mobilization in favour of the abolition of this debt. I'm going to the schools. Despite the promises, the school closures decided upon at the start of the school year have been maintained. In these circumstances, it is difficult to reduce the density of staff and to focus on small groups. Another important topic: the Government welcomed the opening of 1000 places of accommodation for women victims of domestic violence but, in Montreuil alone, the association La Maison des femmes Thérèse-Clerc, which is doing a great job, continues to accompany three women confined with their violent spouse and which the 115 cannot accommodate due to lack of places... In short, four years ago, Emmanuel Macron chose the Seine-Saint-Denis to announce his candidacy for the presidential election. Since then, ministers and prime ministers have multiplied, in 93, travels and major speeches – I have just drawn up a list of them and could expand it further. When will we stop considering the Seine-Saint-Denis not as a stage but as a department in great suffering that we must really help with concrete measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u188	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u189	Far from considering the Seine-Saint-Denis department as a stage, the Government accompanies it. You mentioned the André-Grégoire intercommunal hospital which welcomes 75,000 people each year in the emergency room, almost 4000 in its level 3 maternity room. It is a pivotal institution, a reference centre in nephrology, dialysis or cardiology, but the financial situation is in fact very degraded: the debt rate is around 80% and the debt service consumes 8 million euros out of 125 million euros of budget. This situation is known and monitored by the State. The Montreuil hospital has been very strongly supported. In addition to the "normal" budget allocation to health facilities, an additional €30 million will have been provided over two years for debt relief; EUR 2 million per year to finance the toxic loan contracted several years ago, in cash aid; €5 million in 2019 and €3.5 million this year, finally, in support of investment and renovation of services. The emergency renovation plan is under way: €7 million out of the €10 million planned has already been disbursed from the ARS response fund and €4 million in addition to this €10 million will be provided to help the hospital equip its new emergency department. The additional costs associated with the covid-19 crisis will of course be covered and €1.8 million have already been paid in the spring. Additional compensation is being paid. All of these measures yield results and the hospital's financial trajectory is improving. In addition, with the measures taken within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, we can continue to support the hospital in Montreuil, like many others in the department. In addition, the 2021 finance bill contains a provision that will allow the launch of an investment plan of EUR 19 billion for the health system. The hospital in Montreuil will also benefit. I'm going to the emergency shelter. Since the beginning of the winter plan, mid-October, it is 1238 places that have been opened in Seine-Saint-Denis with a park that reaches 17000 places in the department on the 197000 places open nationally, i.e. almost 10% of the total. By the end of 2019, we had committed to opening 1000 temporary accommodation and accommodation spaces for women victims of violence. In Seine-Saint-Denis, 41 emergency accommodation spaces have already been opened in 2020. A new call for projects to open dedicated places will be launched in 2021 to strengthen the offer in this department and 1000 places will be opened during the year 2021 to increase the number of places open at national level to 7000. More generally, the Government has taken measures to support the Seine-Saint-Denis, especially the most vulnerable populations. I am thinking of the distribution of 5 million masks free of charge since September or the additional resources devoted to food aid associations. Between April and July, some 14 million cheques were issued to our most fragile citizens. In April, the Government launched two emergency plans for food aid operators amounting to EUR 39 million. These are some of the answers to the problems that you have raised. The Government is, of course, following the situation carefully and, if I may say so, in a concrete way, beyond the mere effects of a stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u190	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 1164, on the digital exclusion of older people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u191	Four million people over the age of 60 never use the Internet, i.e. 27% of this age group. In popular circles, as is the case in my constituency, more than one out of every two retirees has no e-mail address. However, we all experience it on a daily basis: the number of steps to be taken on the Internet is constantly increasing and, whether it be taxes, social assistance, health insurance, pension records, there is no longer much going on through the Internet. And we see how often telephone standards are saturated while public reception places close one after the other. So, when you don't have a computer or an internet connection or, quite simply, you have trouble using it, how do you do it? The human rights defender has repeatedly addressed this issue and reminded you that dematerialization should not be used as a palliative for the abolition of public services. On the contrary: it must facilitate the lives of people for the lightest steps, or even allow to reduce congestion in the places of reception to better receive and serve those who go there. The confinement highlighted this isolation and the difficulties encountered and, more than ever, it was seen how vital the accompaniment of isolated people was. In some communes, such as Gennevilliers, in my constituency, the presence of a municipal home-help service and gerontological coordination has made it possible to adapt to the exceptional needs of the period. First, it was possible to identify people in the midst of confinement who were not previously known but who, as a result of isolation, needed help in their daily lives. Secondly, these structures have put in place exceptional services such as the carrying of races or the transport, for medical visits, of self-employed persons in normal times but who, with the health risks involved, could no longer move with public transport. All these field structures, whether municipal services or associative structures, are now under threat. The National Old Age Insurance Fund, the CNAV, is increasingly following a logic of regrouping home-help agencies for the benefit of large private organizations. However, the flexibility and adaptability of these community-based services are evident. These small municipal structures escape the juicy market of the growing elderly economy. They are the only ones to maintain the lowest rates that allow everyone to have access to aid. I would therefore like to know, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, what is the Government's strategy to maintain public home support services, which are so valuable in this period, but which are in fact so valuable all the time, and which must remain accessible to people in precarious situations, and what is the Government's strategy to combat the digital exclusion of older persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u192	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u193	I am, like you, convinced of the need to strengthen the action of community services for the most vulnerable and I believe that this is what we have been working on since the beginning of the health crisis. The fight against the social isolation of older people has thus been one of the strong axes of the response to the epidemic. The strong mobilization of the 853 citizens' teams throughout the French territory has enabled us to identify the most isolated people and to support them in carrying out certain tasks, in particular those related to the dematerialised approaches that you have mentioned. May it be an opportunity for me to welcome the action of Jean-François Serres at the head of the Monalisa association, which, before the crisis of the covid-19, was involved in the fight against the isolation of the elderly. In addition, the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, the CNSA, which has the task of supporting their actions, continues to do so. The Government has called on prefectures and local authorities to mobilize all local resources to ensure close follow-up and awareness-raising on the proper application of barriers. In the continuation of the Guedj mission, a guide to assist in the assembly of local cooperation cells for monitoring social isolation, entitled "Removing the isolation of the elderly", was published; it is published on the website of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. You also rightly stress the crucial role of home support services in assisting vulnerable people as close as possible to their needs. The upcoming bill on age and autonomy, as well as the current plan on trades, will be designed to strengthen these services, in particular by renovating their financing model and strengthening the attractiveness of the trades concerned – it is known that this is a hindrance. Innovative projects are also being launched to better train professionals to identify signs of fragility and to ensure systematic reporting to partners according to the situation. The CNAV also contributes to this professionalisation of home helpers by offering training on needs assessment and support for people. The promotion of the digital inclusion of vulnerable persons is the subject of numerous initiatives supported by the Government and is one of the priority themes of the prevention programmes for conferences of financiers, at the local level, in addition to the national plan for inclusive digitalisation. I would also point out that a specific portal – breaking-isolation-aines.gouv.fr – has been set up to identify open access initiatives available throughout the country and innovative and reproducible local actions – an element of response among others to the fight against the isolation of older people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u194	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u195	If the juicy market for seniors develops, it is because the dismantling of the public service leaves it a gap. Unfortunately, however, this market is growing by widening the gap in access to many services. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers that the crisis should have revealed to you how the dismantling of local public services was a mistake. I note that this is not the case and that for a large number of pensioners, digital access or simply access to rights is not a priority of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u196	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-08-O1110.u197	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Tribute to President Valéry Giscard -d'Estaing; Questions to the Government; Tribute of Jean-François Cesarini; Vote by public vote on the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification; Election of an alternate judge to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Discussion of the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and specialised criminal justice. The meeting is adjourned.
