ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (No. 2907, 2915). Before we begin our work, I would like to remind you that, in this period of health crisis, 150 Members may, from this week onwards, meet in the Chamber, in proportion to the size of the groups. Moreover, the sanitary rules you know continue to apply naturally: cleaning up the hemicycle before and after each sitting, and microphones during the sitting; Speakers are encouraged not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones; distances between participants must be respected; the entrances and exits are staggered. Finally, let me remind you that speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u2	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u3	First of all, let me thank all the members of the special committee responsible for studying this text for the quality of the discussions and exchanges, and for the work already done together. In particular, I would like to commend President Nathalie Elimas and Guillaume Kasbarian for the important coordination work he has carried out as rapporteur. Our country is gradually emerging from confinement: some of our children have returned to school; long-closed shops have reopened their doors; employees, who were in telework or partial unemployment, were able to join their businesses. But let us not be mistaken: it is not because we take back something that would look like a normal life that the crisis is behind us. Its scope is such that its consequences will be heavy, lasting and diverse, for our citizens, our businesses, our environment, but also our administration. We come out of two months during which time has been suspended and we must continue to adapt and reorganize, in order to ensure as best as possible the gradual resumption of our activities, each in our respective fields. It is to this concern for adaptation and therefore agility, in a context of great uncertainty, that this bill responds. In many ways, and in the same way as the situation we are experiencing, it is exceptional. It is exceptional, first of all, because it concerns a very large number of ministerial perimeters, which is quite rare and justifies my presence with you this morning – even if several of my colleagues will join us during the debates. It is because no sector has been spared by the crisis linked to the Covid epidemic -19 that all the ministries are mobilized: this crisis is indeed – to use Marcel Mauss' expression – a total social fact: no one escapes it. It is therefore also a total political fact. I know that some people regret the fact that this bill is, according to the term, a piece of legislation. But I am not sure that the tabling of sixteen pieces of legislation, both bills and ministerial boundaries, would have brought more legibility. Moreover, organizing the parliamentary calendar to allow their consideration by the National Assembly and the Senate had been a real challenge. It is exceptional, then, in so far as it included, prior to its consideration by the special commission, twenty-eight authorizations to legislate by order. I am aware of the particular sensitivity to the use of Article 38 of our Constitution; I understand it all the better since I was a Member of Parliament, sitting among you, and I might one day return to your benches. However, the use of prescriptions is fully justified by the uncertainty surrounding the short-term economic, social, health and administrative situation. That is why the Council of State, in its public opinion, has validated the procedure. The Council noted, however, that some authorizations were for short legislative provisions that were not difficult to draft or were already advanced. We have therefore endeavoured, in conjunction with the rapporteur, to include the latter "in the hard" wherever possible. On his initiative, eight provisions have already been included in the bill as soon as it is considered in committee. They concern the provision of public officials, the transition of some of them to an indefinite contract, the application of self-interest agreements in companies with fewer than 11 employees, the functioning of the compensation committee for victims of nuclear tests or hunters' federations, but also international volunteers in the embassy, seasonal workers or the entry into force of certain reforms in the field of justice. Similarly, with a view to reviewing the bill in public session, we have worked to include provisions relating to the testing of criminal courts, the reorientation of criminal proceedings, the allowance for asylum seekers, short contracts, the right to retirement in the event of partial activity or research contracts. This will make your assembly more enlightened. The fate of the authorization provided for in the third paragraph of Article 1 – which was to allow the postponement, by 1 January 2022 at the latest, of the entry into force of certain reforms to enter into force on 1 January 2021 – illustrates the Government's approach to listening. I am aware that some felt that its scope was too broad and feared – if not suspected – that it would lead to delays in ecological transition; This authorization will simply be removed after the overlapping measures have been added to the text of the bill itself. Some will criticize a text whose overall purpose is not to be seen. However, these are common-sense measures. The first is to ensure the continuity of public service through the retention of some military personnel or the increase in the maximum number of days for the mobilization of reservists of the National Police. The bill also provides for facilitating and securing, in times of health crisis, the provision of public officials for the benefit of public social and medical health institutions, including EHPADs. Secondly, the text contains measures to enable the reforms that you have voted for to be carried out. Indeed, the administration had to suspend part of its activities because of the confinement; In the absence of preparatory work, such important reforms as divorce or juvenile criminal justice must be postponed for proper implementation. In addition, as the resumption of activity is gradual, the issue of catching up with several cases that could not be dealt with during the crisis will arise. We are trying to provide answers, particularly in criminal matters. Thirdly, the bill makes it possible to facilitate the resumption of economic and social life while at the same time focusing on maintaining employee-related arrangements. This is why it provides for the extension of short contracts, the simplification of the use of labour loans or the possibility for seasonal workers already present on French territory to remain there for another three months. This bill also offers several safety nets. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of setting up a support fund for the catering sector based on the equivalents of restaurant securities issued for the year 2020. It also contains advances for employees, with the possibility of an interest in enterprises with fewer than 11 employees, the creation of pension rights in the basic scheme for employees in a partial activity position or the maintenance of supplementary social protection guarantees for up to six months after the end of the health emergency. Certain provisions whose urgency is not directly related to the crisis of the Covid-19 have been placed within Article 2 or transformed into additional articles into commissions. They relate to the compensation of victims of nuclear tests, the status of international volunteers in the embassy or the management of European funds by the regions. The uncertainties on the parliamentary calendar have led us to prefer this vector to present them to you. Indeed, the possible postponement of municipal elections – and thus senatorial elections – would involve the tabling and early consideration of two bills. Moreover, as the Minister of Public Action and Accounts has said, we may need a third amending finance bill, although the date of its review obviously depends on the resumption of economic activity. Recovery measures will also have to be submitted to Parliament. Finally, in the fall, you know as I do, there is little time to spend on anything other than the budget. This bill is therefore an opportunity for us to propose the limited number of measures that we need. I know that the cash flow measure in Article 3 always raises questions on your part. But under no circumstances is it a matter for the State to punctuate the funds placed on the Treasury account: their holders will be able to use them at any time. It is the same mechanism that is already at work for other entities. Consultations are under way with public or private bodies responsible for a public service mission and concerned by the measure. The aim is to enable the State to improve its financing costs and reduce its interest burden. All public entities will benefit from this, since their borrowing costs are generally based on the cost of financing the State, plus a premium. Finally, with regard to Article 4, which concerns Brexit, you will be given explanations by Amélie de Montchalin, whom I thank for being present this morning. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] These are the provisions of the bill before you. They are commanded by the urgency and constant concern of the Government to empower our country to cope with the consequences of the crisis and, in general, uncertainty. They aim to respond to the concerns and needs of businesses and employees, to preserve the activities of bodies essential to economic and social life, to gradually restore the functioning of justice, which is expected by both victims and litigants, and finally to satisfy the needs of students, to name but a few examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u4	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u5	The bill before you contains, as Marc Fesneau has just pointed out, provisions enabling the Government to take by order various measures made necessary to draw the consequences of the end of the transition period, in the context of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Before going to the details of the provisions, I wish, because I think it is useful, to take stock of the Brexit, because this series, which has been going on for more than three years now, is sometimes difficult to follow. The Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union entered into force on 1 February. It marks the culmination of almost three years of difficult negotiations led by EU negotiator Michel Barnier, starting with the launch by the British government in March 2017 of Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union. This agreement, in particular – and this was our priority – preserves the acquired rights of British and European citizens, including their working and living conditions. Thus, French citizens who already resided in the United Kingdom before the end of the transition period will be able to continue to live, work and study there under the same conditions as those currently prevailing. Conversely, British citizens who already resided on French territory will enjoy the same rights as today. Our mobilisation is now complete for the construction of the future partnership with the United Kingdom and on 2 March we launched a new negotiation, still under the aegis of Michel Barnier. It must be completed by the end of the transitional period provided for in the withdrawal agreement, i.e. 31 December; But we know that this period can be extended by one or two years at the request of the United Kingdom and with the agreement of the European Union. During this transitional period, the withdrawal agreement provides that Union law will continue to apply almost entirely in the United Kingdom. This is an essential element of protection for our businesses and citizens, because it allows us to prepare for the next stage, in which the situation will necessarily be different: at the end of the transitional period, only the withdrawal agreement, which is lasting, and the agreement on the future relationship if we succeed in concluding it, will apply. Our objective in this negotiation is very clear. We wish to conclude an ambitious and balanced agreement with the United Kingdom, covering a broad field, including trade, fisheries, transport and safety, and preserving the principles and interests of the Union. But, as you know, building such a balanced and ambitious relationship takes time and brings with it a lot of difficulties. If to date our mobilization is complete, I can also tell you that the uncertainties are great. They are, first and foremost, about the timetable: the British are facing an unprecedented time constraint to negotiate and ratify the whole of this future partnership. We now have less than seven months of discussion if we are to stick to the expected duration of the transition period, that is, until 31 December 2020. The refusal of any extension of the transitional period is not our wish, but that of the British. This is a major challenge, as the issues of negotiation are complex and numerous. To this is added the pandemic of Covid-19 which has made us waste valuable time. The discussions, as you know, have been suspended for almost two months: they have been resumed in the last few weeks by videoconference, in conditions necessarily different from those that usually prevail given the health constraints, which is not without consequences on their pace. The second type of uncertainty relates to the substance. Negotiations are expected to be very difficult as the starting positions are distant. The last exchange of the negotiating team led by Michel Barnier with the British during the week of 24 April was not very constructive. The main areas of divergence remain fisheries, governance and, above all, the conditions for fair competition. Our objective, confirmed by Michel Barnier, is to do everything possible to defend the mandate given to him by the Member States on 25 February. It is out of the question for us to give in to the selective approach of the British; On the contrary, we want to ensure that negotiations progress at the same pace on all subjects and not just on those in their own interests. I am telling you this clearly because these are important issues in each of your constituencies: we will not sacrifice the interests of fishermen, farmers, businesses and citizens to sign an agreement on time and under the conditions imposed by the British. It is our duty to prepare, as we have done in the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement, for all scenarios, including that of a lack of agreement at the end of the transition period. This is the subject of the Government's request for authorization under article 4 of the draft law. I will now give you a detailed account of the approach taken by the Government to seek this authorization. First of all, the proposed scheme is based on the model provided for in the enabling law of January 2019, adopted at the time to prepare us for the hypothesis of an exit without agreement from the United Kingdom of the European Union. Of course, it takes account of the changing context, and the differences are mainly the result of the entry into force of the withdrawal agreement. Article 4 covers three sets of topics: those not covered by the withdrawal agreement; the questions that would arise about the future relationship in the event of a lack of agreement at the end of the transition period; particular situations which have not yet been identified but which could occur – as is often said, to govern is to predict, and to predict, is to anticipate – hence the need for room for manoeuvre. In any event, France's approach fully respects the competences and action of the European Union in the negotiation process. We have complete confidence in Michel Barnier, whom we thank for his energy and perseverance in this work. Some on these benches are concerned about the need to legislate by order: empowerment is necessary to quickly adopt appropriate measures, in a rapidly changing context and given the constraints on the conduct and outcome of the negotiations. The Government must be able to protect without delay those individuals and businesses that might suffer from the cut-off effect of the end of the transition period. No one here, it seems to me, can challenge this need for protection. Parliament will of course have the opportunity to exercise its control and will continue to be informed, as often as necessary, of the state of negotiations with the United Kingdom. In committee, Members criticized the duration of the authorization. I want to tell you solemnly: no one intends to divest Parliament of its prerogatives. You know my attachment, as well as that of Marc Fesneau, to the prerogatives of this assembly, especially those of control, and to the importance of parliamentary work. You are also aware of my commitment to defend the interests of all the French in this negotiation. There is no good agreement reached in haste, and we prefer a good agreement in eighteen, twenty or thirty months to an unsatisfactory agreement at the end of the year. As you know, the choice of extending the transitional period lies with the British, and given the state of the negotiations and despite the fact that they refuse to do so for the time being, no one can rule out this hypothesis. Therefore, the period of authorisation must be sufficiently long to cover a possible extension of the transitional period – given that Article 132 of the Treaty provides that the transitional period may be extended for one or two years. Thus, even in the event of an extension, the Government could make the necessary arrangements by order. Moreover, by choosing an enabling period corresponding at least to the one-year extension of the transitional period, we could show the British that negotiations will not end on 31 December at midnight if the draft agreement does not meet the limits we have set. I now turn to the specific measures contained in the enabling article. The first, on the movement of persons and goods, is intended to ensure the continuity of traffic in the Channel Tunnel even in the absence of agreement at the end of the transitional period. Of course, our objective is to maintain a unified management framework, as provided for in the Treaty of Canterbury, but if negotiations could not succeed, we would feel it necessary to provide, at least on a temporary basis, for the competence of the National Railway Safety Authority. The second provision concerns the movement of defence equipment exported to the United Kingdom. We will of course preserve the regime for the control of these exports, subject to prior authorisation, but the so-called licences for the transfer of these materials within the European Union will, under French law, become export licences to take account of the loss of the status of Member State of the United Kingdom. This measure is essential for the proper movement of goods exported by France to the United Kingdom: as you know, defence relations with a third State fall within our sovereign competence, are not governed by the withdrawal agreement and must be the subject of appropriate measures. The third type of provisions of Article 4 is based on a view of financial stability and aims to protect insured persons and savers. We wish to secure the conditions for the execution of the contracts under way and to encourage their transfer to entities authorised within the European Union. The aim is to protect French insured persons, by securing their insurance contracts – in particular life insurance – that were entered into during the transition period with British bodies, but also French savers, the possible temporary retention of the eligibility of certain securities requiring legislative provisions. Finally, Article 4 contains protective provisions for British nationals in France, intended to guarantee them the continuation of certain activities which the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union could endanger. The authorization is drafted to cover situations that have not yet been identified. Indeed, even if the vast majority of subjects are dealt with by the withdrawal agreement, or will be dealt with by the one dealing with the future relationship, we cannot rule out the emergence of residual subjects requiring national intervention. By definition, we do not yet know them, but it seems important to us to allow certain professions, whose working conditions are subject to membership in the European Union, such as lawyers, certain accountants, architects or doctors, to pursue the business of companies whose share capital is held in the United Kingdom. Here too, the aim is to preserve existing situations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are engaged in unprecedented negotiations. Thanks to our collective efforts and your support, we have managed to take a first step, that of an orderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. Moreover, the Government did not have to make use of the authorization that you gave it in January 2020. With you, I hope that we will reach an ambitious agreement with the United Kingdom by the end of the transition period. With you, I wish that we do not have to use the authorization that I ask you to give us today. But I solemnly say to you that we must prepare for all eventualities and protect the French against the uncertainty of Brexit. The Government will have to report to this Assembly, and I am of course ready to come as often as necessary and you will find it useful to keep you informed of the progress of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u6	I call Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, rapporteur of the special committee to examine the bill containing various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u7	The unprecedented crisis that our country has been experiencing for two months and the exceptional circumstances that result from it put the whole of our society and our economy to the test. To deal with this, our legal framework has already been adapted five times since the start of the epidemic, through the two organic and ordinary emergency laws to deal with the epidemic of Covid-19, the law of extension of the state of emergency health and the two amending financial laws of 23 March and 25 April. These legislative adaptations were essential in order to respond without delay to the health, social and economic emergency. They have provided the State with the legal and budgetary means necessary to cope with the crisis, to accompany containment and to limit the collapse of our economy. The urgency is still there, however, and calls for new legal adjustments in the context of exiting confinement. In addition, there is the urgency of situations that should have been resolved by legislation for the past two months, or that are expected to be resolved by the summer, and that are at a standstill due to the inability of the Government to carry out its parliamentary programme to an end as a result of the health crisis. Yes, the review times are short, but the situation, quite unprecedented, demands it. In the face of the professional and personal hardships they face, including the upheaval of their daily lives, the French have shown a tremendous ability to adapt. Let us show them that the Assembly also knows how to adapt in all circumstances to respond to the upheavals of their daily lives and to accompany them when they need them most. The bill we are looking at today is in line with this, by empowering the Government to legislate through ordinances in many areas. The variety of topics discussed has led our Assembly to set up a special committee to examine it. I wish to commend its members for their constructive discussions. I also thank its president, Nathalie Elimas, who has ensured that our discussions take place in dialogue and listening, while respecting a tight schedule and strict but indispensable sanitary instructions. The four clauses of the original bill share the same objective, clear and assumed: to respond as quickly as possible to the difficulties raised by the epidemic, those that the previous ordinances have not resolved, such as those, new, that the duration of the crisis and the deconfination have caused. I will not undertake an inventory of all the provisions of the bill here, because our discussion in public will give us an opportunity to continue and deepen the scrutiny of the bill. In committee, I announced my intention to clarify the meaning of the authorizations and to remove any ambiguities or difficulties of understanding. For example, I have defended several amendments, the passage of which has led to the inclusion in the bill of provisions originally to be made by order. Other proposals pursuing the same objective have received a favourable opinion in the interests of consistency. A total of 30 amendments were adopted in committee, from both the majority and the opposition, from both the right and the left. The draft law now includes provisions relating to the extension of the employment contract for foreign seasonal workers, the simplification of the establishment of interest agreements in very small enterprises – TPE –, the adaptation of the functioning of departmental and interdepartmental federations of hunters, the expansion of the missions of international volunteers in the administration, the harmonisation of compensation for victims of French nuclear tests, the provision of territorial or hospital public officials to hospitals and medical and social centres, and the neutralisation of the period of interruption between two fixed-term contracts in the public service. Our work in committee has also clarified the meaning of certain provisions in order to remove ambiguities and clearly define the scope of authorizations. I am thinking in particular of the exclusive competence of the pension schemes of the self-employed to allocate their pension reserves, the modalities for extending the experiment of criminal courts or the guarantees given to the reorientation of the procedures of the prosecutors of the Republic. The final point of my rapporteur's approach was to ensure that Parliament was fully informed about the preparation and drafting of future orders. To grant the Government such extensive and long-term authorizations to adapt our right to the emergency situation cannot mean to keep Parliament aside or to call into question its task of monitoring the Government's action. Article 5, adopted on my initiative and that of the Republic on the move, is therefore intended to ensure that it will be involved in the drafting of orders. In addition, it will be up to us to discuss these provisions again when we consider each ratification bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Clarify and clarify on the one hand, inform and control on the other, these are the two legs on which we will lean to move forward in the discussion of the bill. I hope that the debates in this House will reinforce this approach, in the constructive but demanding spirit that has led our discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u8	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u9	As we move on to this bill, I want to say the honour, but also the pleasure and interest I had in chairing the meetings of our special commission. The modesty of our colleagues should have suffered, and I would like to bear witness to the wealth and the very good conduct of our debates, despite the circumstances so special that we are presiding over our work in committee at the present time. The exchange of views was frank, sometimes a little lively, but always exemplary. In the context of mutual respect, everyone has endeavoured to argue and convince. I therefore have good hope on the threshold of our work in open session. It is up to me to thank the members of the special committee, to whom I am grateful to have scrupulously followed the health regulations that are now required, in terms of social distancing and wearing the mask. It is also up to me to greet our rapporteur, Guillaume Kasbarian, whose pedagogy, sense of diplomacy and openness were unanimously appreciated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u10	Thanks to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u11	I would also like to thank the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and the Secretary of State responsible for European Affairs who have constantly accompanied us in our debates and tried to respond to each other. The deadline for the review of the text – everyone agreed – was extended. Nevertheless, the special commission did not work in haste. She sat for seven hours and received 181 amendments. I would point out that only 128 of them were discussed; In accordance with the provisions of articles 38, 40 and 45 of the Constitution, I had no choice but to consider that, among the other fifty-three, some had the effect of extending the scope of the authorizations, others constituted an increase in public charges, and others were alien to the purpose of the bill. We have worked very carefully, going so far as to clarify the title of the bill. Another indicator of the work already done can easily be noted: from the four articles of the original draft law, the special commission has drawn up and adopted a text of fourteen. This development would have no interest in itself if it were exclusively quantitative. It deserves to be pointed out, as it reflects a qualitative advance. Indeed, we have strengthened the parliamentary control of the Government by introducing article 5, providing that Parliament will be informed "without delay and in a detailed manner of the measures taken by the Government under the ordinances", and that it will be regularly informed "of their state of readiness". In addition, it may "request any additional information in the context of the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. » Above all, we have removed seven of the thirty-seven authorizations to replace them with 'hard' provisions, or rather, as our rapporteur has said, in plain language. We must be aware that the ordinances are no more acceptable to a majority member of parliament than to an opposition member of parliament. All of us strive to ensure that the legislator can, as far as possible, rule on specific provisions, and not just delegate his or her authority to the executive. I am pleased to note that the Government itself is prepared to do so, following the advice of the Council of State on this point. I am sure that we will be able to continue to do so today, particularly with regard to the questions which the Special Committee has planned to answer when examining the text in open session. Then will come the turn of the Senate, which, I am sure, will contribute constructively. I am confident that many of us, at the end of the process, will feel the satisfaction and pride of having contributed to it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the unprecedented crisis in our country, only one watchword must guide our action: responsibility. I know the mobilization of each of you, as well as your full commitment to rebuild our nation in order to make it ever more united. The work we are about to do will be an additional stone to the building.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u12	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u13	It is up to me to address a number of points, which have been raised by all of us during the examination of the text in the special committee. These many points are the subject of this motion, which will allow everyone to see how much this text – or rather the many topics it addresses – poses several problems justifying its prior rejection. The bill has about 30 – their number fluctuates – powers to legislate by ordinances. Its main purpose is to enable us to deal with the consequences of the decisions taken by the Government in the context of the major health crisis in France, as well as the very serious ones which it has had on the life of the country. To this end, it includes various measures complementing those taken on the basis of the emergency law of 23 March 2020 to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. First, the provisions of this bill cover a wide range of areas, such as the postponement of the entry into force of certain reforms and experiments, as well as the extension of certain elective terms – outside of mandates resulting from political elections. It also contains provisions on the functioning of justice, others on the continuity of the exercise of military and security missions, others on the continuation and resumption of economic activity. Secondly, the draft law provides for a wide range of measures, such as the establishment of rules for the compensation of victims of French nuclear tests, the extension of the functions which may be entrusted to international volunteers in administration, the extension of the delegation to the regions of the management of certain European programmes, as well as the extension of the provisions in force concerning the threshold for resale at a loss and the supervision of promotions for foodstuffs and certain foodstuffs. Thirdly, the bill includes an authorization to extend the scope of activities of public bodies subject to the obligation to deposit their financial funds in the Public Treasury. Finally, four authorisations are intended to deal with the consequences of Brexit, and relate to the measures to be taken in the event of a lack of agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom at the end of the transitional period of 31 December 2020. Thus, once adopted, this text would allow the Government to determine on its own – without having to go back to Parliament, if not formally – the legislative responses to the consequences of Brexit, which may be significant. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand this: this project, which is being examined in urgent proceedings, is a veritable catch-all – the expression has been used before me. However, its provisions are of a common nature: all are intended to divest Parliament of its main function, that of making the law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u14	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u15	... and, in order to do so, to debate it, arguments against arguments, with the freedom for each and every one of us to improve each paragraph by defending amendments. No more exchanges of views and debates on legislation! Only one watchword for an orderly Parliament: orders! That is what we are proposing. Let us entrust the power to make the law to the executive – for us, the next day, too late, to satisfy ourselves with a text of ratification, which could also take place – why not? – the form of emergency, at the discretion of the executive power! Of course, we still have the only power to accept – or not – much of our right to debate the law under normal conditions, as well as the right – relative but real – to regulate the scope of the ordinances that the Government might adopt. Maigre satisfaction, of which we will be able to control the actual effectiveness only on the day when the ordinances, after having been applied, will come back before us to be ratified! Of course, the possibility of law-making by ordinance has not been invented at the moment. It has been used by many governments over time. However, the reasons for doing so are more or less good, depending on the purpose to which they apply. It can be admitted for legislative provisions of a very technical nature that do not require political debate – such as those transposing our right to ultramarine territories, which in general do not raise any particular difficulties. Some of the ones we are looking at today fall into this category, such as extending the mandates of certain boards of directors, such as hunter federations, for a few months, which are prevented from being renewed by the confinement period. However, this tree must not hide the forest from the provisions which, they, pose difficulties – and the debates in the special committee have shown that they are numerous. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection, as I fear, we will have the opportunity, both of us, to revisit these observations during the examination of the text, so many provisions are not exclusively adaptations arising directly from the consequences of the crisis of the – and not of – Covid –19. This is the case with the provisions relating to the conditions and arrangements for labour lending, the incentive scheme in companies with fewer than 11 employees, international volunteers, Brexit or justice: they do not have a direct connection with the consequences of the decisions taken by the Government to combat the Covid epidemic -19, but they are nevertheless included in the text! Another very revealing aspect of this lack of direct link to the current situation is that the period of authorisation requested, allegedly necessary by the urgency, is usually twelve months, and, in the case of Brexit, thirty months, as our Secretary of State has recalled. If the Government claims to have to legislate by order because of the urgency of the situation, then it has no reason to ask for such time limits on our part, because, for several months, the urgency is no longer justified. This argument is one of those that should lead us to adopt this motion to reject it beforehand. Content not directly related to the consequences of the health crisis; time limits unrelated to the urgency invoked: yes, Parliament is now forced to make a choice, between disposing of its power for bad reasons or refusing to examine the text, in order to allow the Government to review its copy entirely and to reserve to the orders provisions in accordance with their spirit – that is, rather technical and inspired by the urgency! Everything else – and there is much left in the proposed text – must be discarded. Minister, Secretary of State, review your copy to respect Parliament! And we Members of Parliament do not allow ourselves to lose sight of our duty to make the law, let alone at this time, in the crisis situation in which we are in, while the French are entitled to expect their representatives to exercise their full power of control over the Government! We have already so much let go of his neck: never, under the pretext of a health crisis, have our freedoms been so altered! Let us not give up the freedom to make the law on behalf of the French people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u17	Let us reject this project, which undermines our parliamentary powers, by having us abandon our ability to say and act, including on a major subject such as the conditions under which Brexit will take place, which has nothing to do with the health crisis! Let us reject this project that changes the functioning of justice – the National Bar Council calls our attention to this point! [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] We will have the opportunity to come back to all these points in the course of the discussion, but to avoid the worst, it is better to adopt the motion from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u18	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u19	Mr Lambert, you claim that the health crisis is only the pretext of this text. No, it is a fact that is binding on us, and that obliges us to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u20	Not all of them are linked to the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u21	We are not looking for pretexts; We are trying to adapt to the situations created by all of us. You do not want parliamentarians to divest themselves of their rights; This is the whole purpose of the work carried out in committee to restrict the number of authorizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u22	It's good, but it's not all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u23	We intend to continue this work in open session. If you are offended by the use of authorizations, do not give up the possibility to include provisions directly in the text! And other measures could still be written "hardly" during the shuttle. In passing, I welcome the work of all the ministries, within very strict deadlines, to include provisions in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u24	You're the one who's chosen these deadlines!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u25	These delays are made necessary by the health, economic and social situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u26	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u27	Finally, I would find it difficult to explain that, because of the adoption of a motion of rejection, we will not be able to respond to the difficulties faced by employees in CSDs who cannot continue their contracts which are interrupted or by seasonal ones, that we will not be able to provide initial answers to restorers or to justice. These questions arise from the urgency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u28	Some, but not all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u29	...and the debate on this bill must open now. [[The Chairman of the Special Committee and Mr M的jid El Guerrab applaud]] That is why I propose that you reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u30	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u31	You say, Mr Lambert, that Brexit has nothing to do with the health crisis. But business leaders from Hauts-de-France, Brittany and Normandy, like fishermen, see the link: they are experiencing the economic crisis arising from the health crisis; and if we do not take the protective measures that we are proposing to you today, they will be at risk, at the very moment when we are relaunching our economy, of a further halt if the United Kingdom is to leave our commercial area without agreement. These measures are all the more necessary because the health crisis has greatly complicated the negotiations: they have been suspended and resumed by videoconference; The economic context makes their progress even more difficult. So there's a connection. The Government proposes that you avoid the double penalty: let us now take all the measures that will allow us to protect those who may suffer from Brexit without a trade agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u32	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u33	The Republicans Group shares most of the concerns that have just been raised. It is true that the debate took place in the special committee, and we expressed our doubts about it. But on the method, we are embarrassed: certain essential rights of Parliament are being violated. This bill is dense and deals with a wide range of issues; We didn't have enough time to examine it. We had only three days before the committee passed to table amendments, including a Sunday and a holiday on which we were also debating the extension of the health emergency in this House. We learned last night, thirty minutes before the deadline, of the tabling of eighteen amendments by the Government, which are likely to bring down a large number of parliamentary amendments. This bill originally included thirty-six ordinances – a number that had to be reduced, of course – in four articles only. On Brexit, he hires us for thirty months, that is, beyond the end of this legislature. I do not think we are legitimate in taking such a responsibility. Moreover, we will not have the opportunity to go to the bottom of things. The measures are so diverse that all the specialists in each group will not be able to be there to discuss issues as crucial as the CESEDA – code of entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum – justice reform, hunting, Brexit... Your mere presence, Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, proves this: I am sure that you are not the best of the members of the Government on each of the issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u34	[[Laughs]] I humbly admit it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u35	[[Smile]] To say so is not to offend you, it is to praise the qualities of your colleagues! If we want to talk about the substance of each of these issues, it would be better to take the time to debate separate bills. Finally, the health crisis is also a pretext: some subjects are related to it, others much less. You want to avoid going back to Parliament because you've wasted time on aborted bills – on retirements or Paris Airports, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u36	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u37	I do not want to disappoint Mr Lambert, who has already incorporated our position into his plea: the MODEM Group will vote against this motion. We support this text, for reasons that will be developed earlier by Fabien Lainé. It is not illogical, in this emergency period, to act quickly. The questions are serious and constantly evolving: we must provide ourselves with the means to react and anticipate. You would certainly have been more virulent, by the way, if the Government had introduced as many bills as there are ordinances in this text: you would have talked about parliamentary bottling and slow action. You are unaware of the work in committee, while it has allowed many provisions out of the scope of the ordinances to be written in the law itself. Our political differences are real, but acknowledge that listening and mutual attention were real during the debates in committee. We hope that this atmosphere will also prevail in a public meeting. We have to face enormous challenges together; They call for exceptional action. This bill contributes to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u38	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u39	[[Laughs]] Our arguments were brilliantly developed by Jérôme Lambert; the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u40	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u41	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u42	As a matter of principle, the IUD, Action and Independent Group is looking critically at the orders – do not beg me, Minister... – but also at the motions for rejection, because we believe that the debate should take place. It would be a shame to deprive ourselves of this opportunity to interact with the Government. I too welcome the quality of the debates in committee, as well as the progress we have achieved. We are also generally disrespectful of bills dealing with various provisions on various subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u44	But let us agree that certain measures are necessary, in particular on pensions, unemployment and Brexit. I also welcome the translation of your remarks into amendments – of which we may regret the late submission – which cancel applications for authorisation. This is indeed a co-construction, in a relationship of trust. This is very significant in the health crisis we are experiencing. There are still some doubts, in particular as regards judicial matters, public accounting, or Brexit, although I think that on this subject we will easily find points of convergence. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will vote against this motion and look forward to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u45	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u46	I thank our Socialist colleagues who have tabled this motion; I have considered this myself, together with the members of the Freedom and Territory Group, in view of the haste with which we are asked to legislate and to produce amendments. I recall that we received the text on Sunday evening; The amendments for the special committee were to be tabled on Monday before 14.00, so we spent a few hours in the night with our teams and specialists on the various subjects. This piece of legislation deals with a wide range of areas, and in many cases very specific questions, to which few of us are able to answer in a precise way. Legislating under these conditions is a problem. As a matter of principle, however, we are opposed to motions of rejection, which ultimately aim to avoid debate while protesting that Parliament's rights are being violated. Let's not give up speaking. I was, therefore, in my personal capacity rather in favour of rejecting the motion. However, the Libertés et territoires group chose to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u47	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u48	The Government's ways of doing things were unacceptable. Last weekend, our colleagues sat here; the group La France insoumise is small, and our collaborators are not numerous; Like everyone else, they need to sleep. Asking them to help us on a text discussed in the Chamber and at the same time to propose amendments to this bill is not possible – even though I know your commitment to "at the same time"... We can't work seriously under these conditions, and you know that. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been explaining the same things to you. In this period of health crisis, we like prescriptions; We've been telling you for three years that we don't like them. The work of Members is good to legislate; If decisions are to be made, we are asked for our opinion. Four articles, thirty-six ordinances – even if this number should decrease – are largely abused. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] We will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u49	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u50	Do not get used to a confined Parliament. Don't get used to a bell parliament. Don't get used to a divesti parliament. Do not get used to deliberating urgently, without the ability to amend, enrich or discuss texts. You cannot get used to it all the more since this way of working is without any constitutional basis. We are sitting in narrow mode, and you have not escaped it, Minister for Relations with Parliament. This is unacceptable. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for the rejection motion. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] One of the former rapporteurs of the constitutional reform, who has since become minister – perhaps it was a form of reward – tries, if we do not take care of it, to bring in through the window the aborted reform because of the Benalla affair.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u51	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u52	[[New exclamations on the same benches]] If, perfect parliamentarians like Soliveau, you get used to deliberating by ordinances, i.e. entrusting the executive with the task of choosing in your place, you will demonstrate that this Parliament is of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u53	Listen to Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u54	He's saying anything, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u55	This is obviously not our conception of the deliberative body in which we sit. For each article, we will ensure that we give you our views on what should be included directly in the text. That has been said by Mr Lambert, the drafting of certain provisions requires time limits which are not compatible with the urgency which you call for. In addition, the text addresses issues that are not related to the health crisis. Finally – I am speaking to the elected representatives of the coast – Brexit is not a small matter for us, it involves the economic future of France, and in particular the territories that we represent. This is a subject on which we have things to say – as far as I am concerned, to defend the future of fishermen. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I trust Parliament to defend sinners, not the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u56	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u57	I admit, we are studying a text as a matter of urgency. Of course, the conditions for parliamentary debate are not optimal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u58	This has been the case since the beginning of the legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u59	... but it must be noted that we have been able to work intelligently in committee and that our rapporteur has provided some answers and maintained a permanent link between the deputies and the Government. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to Minister Marc Fesneau, who announced from the commission the Government's intention to transcribe certain orders directly into the law – this will be the case at this sitting. We can regret the urgency, but – I hear Mrs Fiat, your comment on the collaborators – it is also the role of Members to study the text. I did it myself, without needing collaborators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u60	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u61	We are able to legislate in a fairly short time. In view of the number of amendments tabled, everyone has been able to play his/her full role as a Member. Our role is to legislate but also to allow an urgent adaptation of our law to make it more protective for the greatest number – I know that this objective brings us together. Thus, this text provides in particular: the creation of pension rights in respect of the period of partial activity – this is an interesting step forward; the possibility for enterprises with fewer than 11 employees to set up an incentive scheme by unilateral decision of the employer, since, for an enterprise to function, employees must be interested in it; anticipation of the effective date of the extension of replacement income such as unemployment; neutralisation of the period of interruption between two fixed-term contracts within the civil service to facilitate the conversion of contracts into open-ended contracts; or the protection of French and French interests threatened by Brexit. In short, all these important social measures cannot wait and must therefore be voted on this week. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will not vote on the motion to reject. In this way, we will debate and play our part in the discussion of the text because we are full Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u62	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Savignat spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u63	Today we are divided between satisfaction and anger. Satisfied to be here to legislate and demonstrate to the French who observe us that, notwithstanding the crisis, despite the necessary gestures and protections, we are there to carry out our mission, the one entrusted to us by the Constitution: to vote the law. But angry, very angry, because obliged to do so under deplorable conditions, but also and above all because, once passed, the law will deprive us of the possibility of legislating in more than thirty areas for a period of between six and twelve months, sometimes irremediably modifying the provisions adopted in the past. The emergency cannot explain everything, nor can it excuse everything. In civil law, it is synonymous with obviousness. Here, it is the opposite, it rhymes with the effect of surprise, the confusion and the benefit that you can derive from it. Yes, urgent measures are needed to combat the crisis, but not just any one, not just how and not at any cost. The paradox is that you are asking us to allow you to legislate by order in order to escape the heaviness of Parliament when, in three working days, we are ready to vote the law. This heaviness is only hypothetic; It did not prevent the committee from examining the text and the debate to be held here today. The urgency and the need to take decisions quickly are therefore absolutely not incompatible with respect for the institutions and the proper functioning of democracy. In this confusion, with a text denser and more provided than the most extraordinary of the bazaars – but no doubt it is voluntary – you really do not want us to do our work as legislator, but to be empowered to do it in our place for obscure and incomprehensible reasons that do not resist the examination and which you were unable to convince us of in committee. You will then come to make your market in this text stuff - everything in order to legislate as you see fit in a period going far beyond the state of emergency, alleged cause of applications for authorization. In doing so, you are deviating the institutions and article 38 of the Constitution. The latter provides for the possibility for the Government to seek authorization from Parliament to take measures that are normally within the scope of the law for the implementation of its programme, and not for the taking of urgent measures. However, you do not have a programme because, if you had had one, you would not have had to table more than 18 amendments last night, just a few minutes after the deadline for tabling amendments. The immense fatras of Article 1, ranging from the extension of the mandates – which we do not know – to the management of the federations of hunters through justice, employment contracts, consumer protection or finally restaurant tickets, illustrate in itself the absence of a spine and of a programmatic vision of the treatment of the exit from crisis: bandages to stop a hemorrhage! I am not referring to Article 3 which, without any particular mention, is asking for the deposit into the Treasury account of the availabilities of persons whose list is neither established nor possible to draw up, as we have seen in committee. The Council of State and the Constitutional Council require clarification of the purpose of the authorization and the scope of the measures it aims to take – we are far from it. No programme, blurry on all floors, and even less evaluation of the scope of the measures envisaged; then, of course, no, we cannot agree to allow you to legislate by order within six to twelve months, retroactively, including in criminal matters, in violation of Article 8 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. We cannot let you ignore the lengthy debates held during the vote on the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, forget the consultation procedures that come out of the law or the regulation, take a low hand on the cash flow of public or private bodies that you have been unable to define or take, always in the same urgency, measures relating to Brexit, unrelated to any of the health crisis that we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] No, definitely, this text of opportunity comes, at a time when France needs unity, taking the national representation as a traitor by trying to extort it in the haste of the various and confused empowerments. We cannot support such a disarmament of Parliament. The law of the Government, emanating from the majority, is not the law of the French that we represent in the fullness of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u64	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u65	The bill containing various urgent provisions, which was considered in committee earlier this week, is now being considered in open session after having been substantially amended through parliamentary work. I would like to make that clear because, while the conditions of its examination have given rise to reactions that we can understand, it should be noted that the discussion in committee has led to significant progress through listening to the Government and the personal investment of the rapporteur as well as Members on all benches. The context of the examination of the text, which we know to be difficult, obliges us to consider the provisions proposed on the basis of a double imperative: on the one hand, to respond immediately to the crisis by measures which come, in most cases, to prolong those already taken, and on the other hand, to anticipate certain decisions with a view to speed and efficiency. That is why this bill contains a number of legislative powers by order. We know and understand the sensitivity of parliamentarians to this procedure. That is why we wanted, as soon as the committee examined it, that the scope of authorisations should be as narrow as possible, especially after the Council of State had validated its feasibility. We have made proposals in this direction, particularly on seasonal work, or that of foreign students. We are pleased to see that they have been successful, and we will suggest that they be supplemented by an amendment during the debate. Similarly, we must pay particular attention to asylum seekers, whose situation is very difficult. The Group of the Democratic Movement will make proposals during the discussion. We welcome the rapporteur's attitude of listening and proposing, which has tabled several amendments aimed at limiting the scope of the orders. Important steps have therefore been excluded from the bill to join the text of the bill, and that is very good. I will not make an exhaustive list of the provisions of this bill, except to note that they are most often technical, common sense, or justice, as is the case with those relating to the extension of non-political mandates, the continuity of public services and missions for which our armed forces are engaged, or sectoral measures, such as research or sport. The draft law also responds to a concern for the protection of employees, which has been constantly expressed by the Government and Parliament since the beginning of the crisis, including measures to support and encourage the resumption of business activity, while providing a more secure framework for employees. Article 3 is a useful complement to the draft law by reducing the short-term financing needs of the State through cash pooling, a principle that governs the cash flow of local authorities, and which is extended here to other public actors. Finally, we would like to welcome the Government's anticipation in the hard negotiations on Brexit. As we know, these negotiations are made even more difficult by the health crisis, and the promise that they will be completed by 31 December of this year now seems to be unclear. The Government should therefore be given full discretion to defend the interests of France and the French in this negotiation. The MODEM Group supports this approach. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The president of the special committee and the rapporteur also applaud]] The bill is a useful complement to the provisions already passed and supports actions already taken, so the Group of the Democratic Movement wishes to see it adopted at the end of our discussion, for the good of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u66	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u67	The text we will be discussing in the next few hours is without a spine, it speaks of everything and nothing, and none of its provisions is related to the previous one. It is in this context that you are asking us to vote urgently on a series of thirty-three authorizations to legislate by ordinances. In the face of the crisis of the Covid -19, the Socialist and related group showed responsibility and voted for a large number of truly urgent measures to respond to it. Like many other opposition groups, he never hesitated during the period to assist the Government and the majority when necessary. But today, on the pretext of the crisis, you are asking us to vote for a text that sweeps away a number of incalculable issues from justice to agriculture, from immigration to Brexit, from the right to work to the cash flow of public service agencies. This text, ladies and gentlemen, is an ally of bad fortunes. It has no logic and has nothing that really requires urgent treatment, contrary to what is said. This bill simply allows you to pass a multitude of legislative riders that could not have been passed in normal time. You are therefore taking advantage of this time when Parliament is urgently legislating and when the French are concerned about the debunking, the return to school of their children, or the state of health of their loved ones, to have us adopt measures that are often unacceptable and sometimes derisory. The manoeuvre is resolutely unacceptable and says a great deal about your consideration of democracy as well as the rule of law. I will not dwell on the conditions for the examination of the text in committee and in committee, contrary to the principle of clarity and intelligibility of the law – a constitutional principle that should be of some interest to you. Is it worth recalling that less than a week ago, the Constitutional Council has already censored two provisions of the law extending the state of health emergency? With this text, you urgently request thirty-three authorizations to legislate by ordinances. However, some of them provide for 30 months of ratification. How dare you speak urgently in this case? This is a new sign of contempt for Parliament! On the substance, this text weakens labour law by allowing an employer to increase the use of CSDs outside of any constraints. It also makes it possible to derogate from the maximum number of vacations in several public missions. Was there an urgent need to weaken labour law? I don't believe it. All our European neighbours are doing the opposite and securing the jobs of their citizens. The Act also empowers the Government to tap into the Pension Reserve Fund, established by the Jospin Government to deal with the demographic shock associated with the retirement of baby boomers. This weakening of our social protection system is particularly shocking. Moreover, this text extends the reform of the justice system beyond what was planned, without Parliament having been able to consult or hear the actors concerned. Finally, article 3 of the draft law allows the State to take control of the treasury of public or private bodies entrusted with a public service mission. This concerns the reserves of pension funds, mutual societies, water management agencies, or the treasury of associations entrusted with public service tasks. This measure may well threaten the economic survival of several structures, but you have no cure for it. Certain provisions are certainly justified by urgency, and we recognise this – I am thinking in particular of the question of the right to retirement for persons in partial employment. However, they are drowned in an incoherent set of measures that are not urgent. This totally discredits the validity of this text and, therefore, the action of this Government. How, then, can we obtain the confidence of the French and the national representation? If there is an emergency in the country, it is the free masks for all French people, rich or poor. However, a number of amendments by the Socialist and Related Group in this direction have been rejected by your majority. Another emergency is the elimination of bank charges for modest families during the crisis. The Socialist Group in the Senate had adopted this provision, but you have deleted it. There is also an urgent need to extend the time limit for the use of an IVG to 14 weeks. There is still an urgent need to vote for an increase in funding for public hospitals, EHPADs and, above all, home support services, which are in great difficulty. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] You know, there's no shortage of emergency room. Try to look at the real emergencies to respond to the crisis and you will have an entire country at your side. Continue to use the health crisis to make us vote for inepties and social regression measures and you will have anger and distrust. The choice is yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u68	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u69	In its original wording, the bill consisted solely of ordinances, in very large numbers – no less than thirty-three. The UDI-Agir group and independents had also regretted it in a special commission. We are not, as a matter of principle, hostile to article 38 of the Constitution. This prerogative of the Government allows it to act swiftly when necessary or to deal with purely technical matters. Parliament should, however, be involved in the drafting of orders; It is the guarantee of taking into account territorial sensitivities and differences and, thus, of better enforcement of the law. I welcome the work of the rapporteur in committee, who has included in the text the content of several applications for authorisation. Indeed, even if exceptional circumstances partly justify the use of orders, Parliament must remain the privileged place for the manufacture of the law. We expect the Government to continue on this path in a public meeting, as it undertook in committee: several amendments encourage us to believe that. In addition, it seems to us to be a good practice that the measures introduced under the orders are limited in time. Parliament must be able, within a reasonable period of time, to exercise its right of scrutiny in order to judge on a case-by-case basis whether it is useful to extend them. We will defend amendments to that effect. In substance, we share your ambition in this bill. While our country has almost stopped for two months, it is essential to react quickly in order to accompany the recovery in all its dimensions. First and foremost, the continuity of public services and of legitimate missions must be ensured. We also need to support economic recovery. In the face of the risks of bankruptcies, the low-loaded order books of companies and the disarray of the self-employed, the action of the public authorities was essential during the confinement; She must continue. We are also faced with the need to secure and protect the rights of workers, the private sector and the public, avoiding breaches of rights. The acquisition of pension rights in the context of partial activity or the maintenance of unemployment insurance rules is therefore in the right direction. With regard to the provisions on justice, on which we have discussed at length in committee, we understand the need to speed up procedures in order to avoid overruns or to eliminate too many cases. However, this should not lead to the experiential testing of criminal courts being extended in haste, even though it is under way and has not yet been evaluated. Similarly, the possibility for the public prosecutor to reorient procedures must be marked in order to avoid any drift. On the other hand, we have great questions about the scope of Article 3. It is intended to enable the Treasury to recover all the availabilities of legal persons managing public funds. The imprest and revenue authorities of local authorities and their public institutions, whose opening of a bank account is motivated by constraints relating to the geographical location or security of funds and persons, would now be obliged to deposit their funds into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Such a measure could undermine the smooth functioning of these entities by rigidizing their cash flows and requirements to the benefit of the State. As far as the scope of the authorisation for Brexit is concerned, which lasts 30 months, it seems to us to be excessive. While future relations with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will have implications for many of our territories and developments in the negotiations may be numerous, Parliament must not be divested of its prerogatives for such a long period. A period of 18 months, closer to Parliament's choice on Brexit last year in similar circumstances, seems to us to be more appropriate. Finally, in view of the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing, we believe that our country must also give an exceptional answer to the question of the greater integration of PADEU – practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union. Not all health professionals who have graduated from an extra-European country are, by far, affected by the regularisation procedure provided for in the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system. They have been and remain at the forefront of the epidemic, along with the rest of the caregivers. We will be attentive to their fate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u71	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u72	That has been said by my colleagues, the work we have done in committee has certainly been a good job, despite the haste. The health crisis obliges us, as representatives of the nation, to act and legislate accordingly. Montesquieu, in De l'esprit des lois, already said: "It is necessary to enlighten history with laws and laws by history." However, the Liberties and Territories Group feels that the bill on which we are to vote today tends to sift this light of history. Indeed, too many are the authorizations that this text grants – thirty-three in all – and too vast are their scopes of application. The legislative power could thus be divested of a number of its prerogatives in favour of the executive. If we wanted to be a little teasing, we could make the title, already amended in committee, a real list at the Prévert. Here is our proposal: "Bill on the general divestiture of the National Assembly in social, economic, sporting, military, criminal matters, etc. " Yes, that's what this is about! It seems to us that the consequences of the Covid-19 no longer represent the only red thread of this legislative patchwork. The Council of State, in its opinion, stressed that several provisions had no bearing on the follow-up to the fight against the epidemic. It is not one or two legislative riders, to use your words in committee, minister, but a cavalry, a Napoleonic army! If uncertainty about the legislative timetable can be agreed, what is the urgency of considering all the provisions of this text in committee and sitting within the same week? The very limited deadline for tabling amendments, as I said earlier, prevents us from working more calmly. The authorizations, whose objects are as different and wide as justice, agriculture, immigration, sport, business, labour, defence, public treasury or Brexit, would have deserved a little longer examination! With regard to Brexit, I would like to highlight the work done by my colleague Alexandre Holroyd and the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a whole; We will have an opportunity to discuss this earlier. The issue of agricultural workers and the regularization of persons in an irregular situation, which is becoming increasingly pressing in the political debate, would also have merited further consideration. It is particularly important to me, because the man who speaks to you has as his father a Moroccan logger who left his mountains of Khénifra in the Middle Atlas to come and cut wood in the Cantal. I therefore know perfectly well the importance of these women and men, workers of the shadow, hard-working, silent, who never ask for anything. The sudden closure of borders reminded us all of how much our agriculture depended on this foreign labour force. To such an extent that the incredible appeal to refugees, by the prefecture of Seine-et-Marne, to help the farmers of the department left many of our compatriots circumspect. I have tabled an amendment to grant a residence permit in case of a promise of employment in the agricultural sector, as well as to extend the working and stay time to nine months for the year 2020. My group and I have also tabled amendments to ensure that holders of short-stay visas who have expired due to the impossibility of leaving the territory during the health emergency can be granted a long-stay visa. That this measure ceases to apply on 15 June does not seem credible to us; That is why we propose to extend this limit. We also ask you to reflect on the situation of foreign students who have chosen France for their studies and who find themselves in situations that are sometimes very difficult and unfair. Finally, the partial activity scheme should take into account the particular situation of French people stranded abroad; They cannot stay away from our employment support measures. And I want to give a sign to the thousands of people who are still abroad in sometimes precarious situations. I repeat that we are radically opposed to Article 3, the content of which we believe to be disproportionate and counterproductive. In committee, Mr. Minister, you have made commitments. We hope that they will be reflected in the text that will emerge from our consideration in open session. For the time being, the Libertés et territoires group is reserved for this bill. We expect the Government and its majority to make real progress, taking into account the proposals of the entire national representation. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Albert Camus, who left us just sixty years ago, wrote in La Peste, that we have all probably reread these days: "What we learn in the midst of plagues [is] that there are more things in men to admire than things to despise." It is by drawing inspiration from this sentence that we in this House must present ourselves to our fellow citizens. Let's be worthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u73	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u74	Free of charge for the victims of the Covid-19, free of charge for protection masks, extension of the legal period for the use of voluntary termination of pregnancy, taxation of crisis profiters, prohibition of dividends, introduction of a moratorium on rents, payment of supplementary food aid to the most vulnerable, are some of the proposals we have made in recent weeks in our amendments to the legislation on health emergency. However, they were found inadmissible on the grounds that they would not be relevant to the texts studied. Is there no connection, seriously? So this is how the macronya and its majority manage the crisis: silence people; repeat to anyone who would like to hear it that there is no delay in the management of the epidemic; remove a banner "Macronavirus, that's enough! "and throw the perpetrator in custody;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u75	Yes! We don't have the right to insult the head of state!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u76	... reduce any political opposition to silence by sweeping its amendments. So what is this invisible macronist hydra that judges the relevance of our amendments and makes them disappear as it pleases? I'm told it's the service of the session. So let him come and explain to me – and try to convince me – that an amendment relating to protective masks has nothing to do, in the midst of a pandemic, with the bill extending the state of health emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u77	It'll be hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u78	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Laughs on the same benches]] What, then, are these regimes in which the people are no longer free to criticise the power in place and parliamentary oppositions are reduced to legislative silence by low manoeuvres? My colleague Ugo Bernalicis spoke of "democrature", I could talk about "dictamolle",...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u80	...unless they're a little bit of both. Proposals, however, have been made, written and published. For amnesia and dishonest people, I recall some that come to mind: free masks for all, nationalization of companies producing medical equipment, suspension of bank charges, suspension of rents, etc. We have also proposed a comprehensive, costed and reasoned deconfinination plan, based on the concrete realities of people's lives and knowledge of the pandemic, not a random date, shot in full or face, and paid masks, of which Mr. Castex – Mr. Déconfinement – announced yesterday that they would be in sufficient numbers... in mid-June. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Let us return to you sheep and to these disqualified amendments before we have even been able to discuss them. We are told in the envious "legislative rider" without making any other argument, I explained it. Now you are introducing a Swiss knife bill, which you have named "various urgent provisions". One could usefully change the title, for greater clarity. I propose that this be: "a piece of a bill designed to make provisions that are not relevant to the Covid-19 as a matter of urgency while trampling on Parliament." Indeed, this ranges from provisions finalizing the rolling of cash by the Directorate-General for Public Finance to an article on Brexit. Article 3 is only a rough trick aimed at recovering the funds of supplementary pension funds, transport authorities and local authorities, thereby artificially reducing the debt of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With you, we can no longer speak of "legislative riders", you are on another scale, you are changing the very nature of this Chamber: it is no longer the Palais-Bourbon, it is the racetrack of Longchamp! In a text that should have been used to relieve people's lives and to properly frame deconfinity, you chose to refer to Brexit, and you propose even more precarious contracts for already precarious people. You're not going back in front of anything, but you're not going to keep us quiet. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A few days ago, here, at the moment when the president of my group was completing his speech, the President of the National Assembly launched him: "You are completing us! – Disrespectful comment on the parliamentary debate and the neutrality that should be that of a sitting chair. Nevertheless, thinking of making a good word, he actually expressed what the vast majority of French people think: yes, you have to stop your methods and decisions that lead the country to chaos, to serve your friends; Yes, we must put an end to your contempt for Parliament and, therefore, for democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u81	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u82	What's this about? That is the question we want to ask you. We are considering a bill "on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union"... and several raccoons, I would be tempted to add, to follow Jacques Prévert's lead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u83	As long as it's not a pangolin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u84	However, looking at it well, there is nothing very poetic about it. It is a bill that has no subject, but not without a horseman. The whole cavalry was called there, in disorder, and its purpose is to entrust the Government with the task of legislating in place of Parliament, which for six months, which for twelve months, which for thirty months, well beyond the state of emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You have changed the title, because the Council of State has pointed out to you that not all measures are justified by urgency. Your notion of urgency ebubbs us! There are cases where you really need to act quickly, but this has not come to mind. Without going back to recent and ongoing episodes, we could mention, for example, the ban on dismissals, the late payment of certain aids, or the creation of a public drug service, at a time when Sanofi is playing in Bohnanza or Monopoly. I would add that you had us discuss yesterday, in the present conditions of restricted democracy, a text that is not urgent and problematic for freedoms. Now, for these supposedly urgent matters, you don't have time to give us time to deliberate, you need orders. The ordinances are, you say, entirely democratic, since they are provided for in the Constitution. However, prescriptions are an exception, while in your home they are an obsessive compulsive disorder. We were elected to make the law, not to watch you do it, and we want to accomplish our mission. It is not by logics of obedience, sometimes of surveillance, that we will get out of it. It is exactly the opposite: it is deliberation and democracy that make us stronger. But the powers you ask of us are exorbitant. What is the issue in this text, which actually consists of a succession of rather blurred chapter heads? It involves, I must say, the necessary measures, which we could agree on, quickly. For example, the non-accounting of periods of interruption between two CDS for the CDS in the civil service, the extension of residence permits or the creation of pension rights under the partial activity scheme, even if you stick to the basic scheme when supplementary schemes should be included – so there is, you see, a need for parliamentary work. But there are also, in this text – everything – cafoutche, as they say in my home – a lot of stuffed blows. You use prescriptions with greed, beyond urgency, beyond the necessary, beyond reasonableness. You abuse, you don't demonstrate the need for everything you go forward. You want to be allowed to limit, in catini, the compensation of the victims of the nuclear tests, because you contest the application, made by the Council of State, of your bad blow. What does it have to do with the emergency? You want to take advantage of it to extend your justice reform, which has been so criticized. You want to determine only certain Brexit conditions. You want to take money from pension funds to finance the crisis. After our debates this winter, it would still deserve some deliberations! You want to pay back to a fund the sums derived from the restaurant titles, which belong to the social and economic committees. But the way in which we support the catering sector deserves a real debate. You want to retouch the labour code again, after having boned it by ordinances, as soon as you come to power. How do you want us to trust you? Especially since you intend to exempt yourself from the necessary consultations. Anyway, you want to govern alone. You want to keep us all, here and well beyond, as spectators of the President of the Republic's gesticulated conferences and his dinners in one-on-one with the Prime Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Now, in the moment we are, the decisions that are taken give impulses and inflections for the future. We find that you haven't changed your matrix. We need to debate all of this. You have changed the title, while the problem is the text. We are calling for a completely different inventory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u85	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u86	We are again considering an emergency bill, as we have done in the last few weeks in this House. This text is part of the continuation of the law of March 23rd: it is a matter of dealing with the epidemic of Covid-19 and managing its immediate consequences. As the activity gradually resumes, it is necessary to answer new and very concrete questions from the French: what precise reference period for the maintenance of unemployment benefits? What transition for partial activity? What pension rights during this period? What is the fate of cases before the engulfed courts? What calendar for sports competitions? No, it's not a tote text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u87	Cafoutche!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u88	...it is a text that deals with a wide variety of subjects, each of which calls for specific action by the State. It must continue to adapt post-containment situations and anticipate the challenges of the coming months. That is the meaning of the text. Firstly, the Group of the Republic on the move welcomes the important progress made at the stage of the special commission, in particular the transcription of seven legislative authorizations. They are the result not of amendments tabled by sheep, but of the rapporteur's work. The exception to the rule for calculating the interruption period between two CSDs in the public service seems to us particularly appropriate. In particular, it will ensure that contract staff in the public service are not penalized during this period. We also welcome the adoption of the scheme to facilitate employee involvement in very small enterprises. According to the research, research and statistical leadership, in 2017, only 11% of the employees in TPEs were covered by at least one participation, interest or wage savings scheme, compared to 59% in companies employing more than ten employees. This measure will complement purchasing power and value-sharing schemes. Moreover, in the face of the insistent cartoons, we have been able to clarify certain points in our debates. Thus, no postponement of the entry into force of the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy has been envisaged, the minister and our majority have made this clear. We are delighted to be among the promoters of this law now, the group La France insoumée, which did not vote for it. Our work in public will further enrich the bill. We will support the measures proposed by the Government to address the congestion of the courts following confinement, namely the various adaptations to the trial of crimes and the reorientation of criminal proceedings. The arrangements adopted and confirmed by the amendments seem to us to be proportionate, and we have taken into account our additions to the special committee in favour of litigants. We will also support the securing of the pension rights of employees in partial employment, since the current scheme does not provide any basic pension entitlement to its beneficiaries. This essential measure of the bill will improve the French system in this field, which has once again demonstrated its full effectiveness in times of crisis, protecting more than 12 million employees. In addition, our group will propose an amendment to Article 3 to clarify the scope of the centralisation of the treasury of public or private bodies entrusted with a public service mission. I have no doubt that we will have a good debate with the minister on this, which will demonstrate the relevance of the mechanism, which will allow for better management of our public finances, given the situation of the national budget. Finally, let me pay tribute to the remarkable work that France has done throughout the Brexit process. This is again the case thanks to Article 4, which aims to anticipate the consequences of the end of the transitional period provided for in the UK withdrawal agreement, in several key areas: the Channel Tunnel, our sensitive exports, the treatment of our nationals. Despite the crisis, France remains mobilized to face this challenge, given the consequences for our companies and our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] In conclusion, the deputies of the Republic on the move will remain vigilant on all the authorizations to legislate by ordinances contained in this text. That is why the rapporteur and we ourselves wanted to adopt an article strengthening parliamentary control over these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u89	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u90	Let's say from the outset, there are good measures in this bill. For example, the opportunity given to territorial public service employers to make their agents available free of charge to strengthen hospital facilities or to take into account the period of confinement for CDIsation in the public service seems to me to be common sense measures. These are the necessary provisions – there are others – that go in the right direction and make it possible to remedy a few oblivions. But – because there is always one "but" – the problem lies in two sentences: the ever-increasing willingness to put Parliament on the sidelines – the text contains no less than thirty-three powers to legislate by ordinances, or thirty-six, we no longer know – and the equally regrettable absence of certain measures. The state of health emergency does not justify everything, in particular the vote yesterday in this House, with an extremely small national representation, of the bill to combat hateful content on the Internet. Explain to me why it was necessary to adopt it this way, almost in catini,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u91	Catimini?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u92	... while it is an open door to arbitrariness and censorship in our country. Definitely, the coronavirus has a good back! The excessive use of texts that, like this one, collect orders is dangerous, because it threatens, each time a little more, the work of Parliament. Worse, it depreciates it, confining it to the role of a simple registration chamber. Only, by force, the French eventually realize it. In the midst of a crisis of confidence – or rather, I should say, of distrust – towards the Government, you should not play too much in this little game. We can't put democracy away forever! The measure that allows you, for a period of six months, to dispense with any mandatory consultation provided for in the legislation or regulations, is one that best illustrates your state of mind in this regard. Without wishing to argue, your management of certain aspects of the health crisis shows that, precisely, such consultations would be relevant. The question of the period of validity of the measures included in the text must also be asked. As I said in the introduction, some are welcome – are they all intended to remain in force after the end of the state of health emergency? You sometimes leave your hands free for six months, even thirty months for the provisions concerning the consequences of Brexit in France: you are planning! Is all this serious? You said in committee that the urgency of the situation justified the adoption of these provisions. It's so urgent that you're giving yourself the straight necks to settle it... in two and a half years! The argument of urgency, which you brandish at the end of your arms, begins to have lead in the wing, especially when we find that the previous ordinances, some fifty in all, have still not been ratified. How can we not regret the absence in the bill of the common sense measures that you could have taken? I am thinking of the Madelin investment scheme for SMEs and SMEs, which we could have strengthened in order to better support our businesses during this period of crisis. Other measures would have unlocked some very concrete situations, as illustrated by the example of the governance of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI. Indeed, it would have been useful to provide that once the municipal councils resulting from the March 15 elections had been established, executive officers would have been provisionally elected to the own-tax EPCIs, including from among their members communes where a second round is to take place. To the extent that their competences include economic development, it is highly detrimental that no longer legitimate executives remain in place. What became urgent for municipal councils is equally urgent for EPCIs; keeping an executive in place, when it is sometimes only one or two communes that remain waiting for a second round of elections, is – I repeat – neither legitimate nor effective. I have tabled a whole series of amendments on this text. I also realize that in some cases the Government has tabled the same: it has tabled eighteen at the last minute, which is not lacking in salt, since they tend to remove provisions from its own bill! Such processes help fuel the blurry of your text – if possible. I have heard in committee some call it a "cassage of the century": it is up to you to show us that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u93	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u94	Before I begin the discussion of the articles, I would like to respond to the speakers. Mr. Savignant expressed both his satisfaction with the law and his dissatisfaction with the method used. You cannot blame us for using the orders and, at the same time, regret that the measures originally involved in the authorization are included in the text of the bill. This was indeed the subject of our discussions in committee: we have the will, shared, to draft certain provisions now, to reassure here and to clarify there, as far as possible, given the deadlines that are necessary for us. I would like to thank Mr Lainé for having welcomed the work of the committee and the preparation of the meeting, within a time limit that is indeed forced. As he said, the aim of this text is to lay down certain provisions of common sense. No surprise, Mr. Aviragnet, you said all the good you thought of the bill. You say that none of the topics deserve to be addressed, and when you detail them, you expand the list. This attitude is paradoxical. I believe that you could have accompanied some of the arrangements since the beginning of the crisis – it would have been good to do so. Mr Christophe, you rightly approved the security work aimed at avoiding legal breaks. You have told us about the points on which you will exercise your vigilance. As was the case with Mr Savignat and his colleagues in committee, we will be debating issues of justice. As for Article 3, I shall come back to that in conclusion. I have noted the questions you asked, Mr El Guerrab. With regard to visas, the text proposes answers, including clarification of the practical scope of the authorisation to legislate by ordinances. By drawing up a list of orders to accuse us of using it, you yourself have drawn up an inventory to the Prévert of the subjects that should come to add to it: let us be consistent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You always indicate the number of French people who remain abroad: I repeat that you could also greet the number of those who have returned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u95	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u96	Do it in the same movement, if possible: 180000 French – I speak under the control of my colleague, Mrs de Montchalin – have returned thanks to the diplomatic network and the mobilization of a very large number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u97	We think of those who stayed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I know there are still problems, but look at the ones that have been solved. I am aware that difficulties exist in your constituency, but take into account all the French who were outside our borders: I believe that we have done a job that no other country has done. I would like to emphasize this in your place, since you have not yet said anything about it – I am pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u99	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If you call for respect for Parliament, Mr Prud'homme, respect parliamentarians and stop giving your colleagues names of birds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u101	They weren't birds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u102	[[New applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] From birds or mammals, I know how to make the distinction, I am also elected from a rural constituency... To establish respect for Parliament, first of all, respect for parliamentarians, it is the minister responsible for relations with Parliament who tells you: it is a question of correction and respect for democracy, through its actors. We may disagree, but you'll never see me do that. Mr Dharréville, we have already had the opportunity to debate; I noted in your speech, not a satisfaction – I do not want to compromise you – but the recognition that certain provisions are in the right direction, even if you have listed all those that you think are going in the wrong direction. I propose to examine them, keeping our differences – God knows if they are great – which are quite respectable in democracy, trying to find points of convergence. I believe that there are provisions in the "hard" provisions that are likely to address certain concerns, or at least to remove the doubts that you have raised, and which are understandable. I therefore hope that this debate will take us as far as possible into the drafting of the law, to echo your comments. As far as pension funds are concerned, you have criticized us for wanting to collect them, in connection with a debate that preceded the crisis of the coronavirus: I dare say that we have elements of clarification that are of a nature, if not to restore confidence, to dispel suspicion – this would be a first step, on a rather long path. Thank you, Mrs Lebec, for your comments on securing certain rights, to which I assume Mr Dharréville also referred, such as the rights of pensioners or the interests of employees. You called for vigilance and control: the text offers the means; The adoption of some of the amendments we have tabled would also help, and we will return to them. Mrs Ménard, despite your comments on the situation of the EPCIs, concerning specific contingencies in the territory of which you are elected – if I do not make a mistake – I thank you for saying that the text contains good measures: it is always appreciative, even though a "but" follows. Let's talk about the right measures. I am sure that your amendments will provide us with an opportunity to discuss others; Even if we do not agree, we will be able to debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Thank you for your attention; As you will understand, I look forward to starting the review of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u103	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u104	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u105	I would like to express my astonishment at the inadmissibility of two amendments which I tabled. "The first paragraph of Article 45 of the Constitution and Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that any amendment shall be admissible at first reading, provided that it is linked, even indirectly, to the text deposited or transmitted. That is not the case with your amendments. The arms fall to me! In a text whose title refers to various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic and whose Article 1 contains many measures, how can we refuse at least to consider amendments concerning women in difficulty? Indeed, the two amendments that I was defending were related to the situation of women in great danger, particularly minors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Rapporteur, you said that the bill must resolve the difficulties faced by our fellow citizens as quickly as possible. Is it not an emergency measure to effectively maintain access to abortion for women, especially minors and women victims of violence confined to the perpetrator? However, calls to the "Sexualities, Contraception, IVG" number have increased by more than 50%. As I know, increasing the time limit for recourse to IVG from 12 weeks to 14 weeks is a delicate and difficult step to take. However, I proposed in the amendment to limit its validity to September 2020: it was simply an emergency measure, intended to accompany these women in difficulty. I do not repeat my astonishment, but I express my discontent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u106	The application of Article 98(6) has been called into question several times in the proceedings. Some have approved the new rules that have been adopted by our Assembly, others have not; In any case, it now applies. This article does not relate to the title, but to the provisions in the text: if your amendment does not have any connection with any, it cannot be "scheduled" and it is therefore declared inadmissible. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council has confirmed this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u107	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u108	It is precisely on Rule 98(6) that I base this point of order. We discussed it last week. Some amendments, strangely, could be rejected under the same article, and yet are defended, or will be rejected during the examination of the articles of this text. For example, I would like to refer to a series of amendments tabled by the La France group, which have not yet been ratified by the National Assembly or by the Senate, concerning several orders already made by the Government. They are still outstanding in the air and can be perfectly amended. I am thinking in particular of the criminal order. I do not understand that we can defend amendments to the previous Criminal Ordinance, while amendments concerning, for example, the IVG are declared inadmissible. I would like to discuss the merits of the use of section 40 because it relates to expenses, but the interpretation of section 45 is not subject to jurisprudence on the new regulation. Remember, Mr President, that such censorship – as we can call it – of the amendments, or rather the self-censorship of the Bourbon Palace, began long before the new regulation was applied, in committee and then in session. I therefore wonder, and I wonder, Mr. Chairman, whether it is appropriate to follow up on the complaint made to discuss these amendments, so that the Government may have the opportunity to have them rejected by its majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u109	I answered the question concerning article 98, paragraph 6. You can speak perfectly about the subject at the Conference of Presidents, since you are represented there. I am convinced that President Ferrand himself will give you all the answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u110	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u111	I would like to take a look back at the statement made by the Minister, who stresses the importance of respecting the actors of democracy and of Parliament. In my view, this implies that the Government respects parliamentarians. I will not go back to your choice to legislate by ordinance; On the other hand, I would like to refer to the conditions of the debate. Yesterday we learned that the Government had tabled, half an hour before the deadline, eighteen amendments, which turned out to be deletion. They will be discussed first and their adoption will bring down the other amendments relating to the provisions concerned. And we do not have the time to amend the amendments to include in the text even those provisions which should have been the subject of orders. This is a first sign of Parliament's contempt and a proof of the very bad working conditions that we are facing. However, when I look at the Eloi application, I have just noticed that the Government has now tabled two new amendments to Article 1, relating to medical analysis laboratories and another subject, which I am not aware of. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Excuse me, minister, but you are in charge of relations with Parliament: defend it a little bit, do not systematically adopt the position of the Government – respect what we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u112	He is the minister of bad relations with Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u113	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Make sure that we have a minimum of time to consider the amendments, especially when the Government to which you are a member is tabling them even when we are in session, and that they have not been discussed in committee. You ask us to respect the work of the Government and give you permission to take urgent action: in your turn, respect a little bit our right to amend, work and study your amendments – stop trampling on parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u114	Suffer that we exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u115	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u116	I cannot allow the minister to speak this way without telling him the substance of my thinking, particularly about the French who are blocked abroad. In my constituency, that of the French in the Maghreb and West Africa, the action of our consulates and embassies in Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia has been extraordinary. Hundreds of flights were organized, the consuls accompanied each person individually, in a haute couture work that I greet. On this point, I can assure you that I am not misled by praises; On the contrary, I keep doing it on social networks. [[Mrs Caroline Fiat and Mr Loïc Prud-homme applaud]] But, Minister, the work is not over: thousands of French people are still blocked abroad. You can't say otherwise! Some, while they have serious illnesses, experience total isolation; families are torn apart; In my constituency, three or four-year-olds have been alone, away from their families, for two and a half months, crying on the phone every day. Can we shout out loud and announce that the work is over? No, it is not, as the consulates themselves point out. Minister, forgive me. You know very well that my position is constructive and that the amendments I tabled in committee were also constructive; the rapporteur may testify to this. Believe me, as far as the French are concerned, the work is not over: there are still many sufferings and tears, some of them in a serious psychological state. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] No, you can't scream out loud and pretend it's over, folded, finished!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u117	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u118	As far as Parliament's role is concerned, given my window, we tend to overregulate. If I am not a constitutionalist, I understand that we regularly interfered with the prerogatives of regulatory power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u120	The texts we adopt are also very long. I simply take as an example article 1240 of the Civil Code, on civil liability, which did not change between 1804 and 1871. It simply states: "Any act of man, which causes harm to others, obliges the one by whose fault he has managed to repair it. Today we would be unable to adopt such a simple text: in a bombardment of clarifications, the expression "any act of man" would be replaced by three pages of text. The term "others" would be specified, such as "damage", to indicate that it may be a damage to reputation or material damage, and so on, to no longer end. Couldn't we take a little height and trust each other? I say this with the utmost sincerity: in France, we suffer a lot from a problem of mistrust a priori, between parliamentarians, between Parliament and the Government, between the central and decentralized powers of administrations, between the State and the communities. This is infernal, while to restart the economy and control the epidemic, we absolutely need confidence! What spirit is behind the text we are examining? The administration, which has broken down for two months like the entire economy, must self-regulate. Time limits have been exceeded; We take note of this and allow the administration to get in order, so that the activity resumes. Parliament does not grow up by deciding on ever smaller details. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Can't we adopt great principles? In the historical context that we know, we have seriously violated three fundamental freedoms – to circulate, to undertake and to meet: that is one that poses profound questions, that is one that deserves to be debated! We must decide to what extent we entrust the executive with the possibility of restricting these freedoms. For the rest, let's not talk about details and let's give administrations the opportunity to self-regulate, since that is the idea behind the text that we are going to vote on today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u121	You can quit, if you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u122	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u123	Something amazing is happening in our Chamber. In two days, our assembly will have adopted two texts: the first, examined yesterday, submitting individual expression to the truth of the State; the second, discussed today, enabling the state to expand its scope of intervention and power. That is very disturbing! The text that brings us together, particularly its Article 1, is presented to us as a comprehensive catalogue of emergency measures in the face of the health crisis that we are going through. However, the gravity of the situation in our country should not be used as a Trojan horse to introduce measures whose link with the crisis is tenuous. From fishing to justice, to the right of asylum and restaurant tickets, this text is an implausible stuff. In addition, in most cases it is not urgent to empower the Government to take decisions; This text seems to give the executive a blank-sing to pursue a political agenda sometimes unrelated to the health emergency, with the docile, perhaps inconsequential blessing of our assembly. That is all the consideration given to Parliament, now downgraded to the rank of registration board. This lack of consideration, or even contempt, is perfectly illustrated by the choice of the accelerated procedure – it should be said by forced march, at the pace of the charge. This way of ignoring the representatives of the nation and acting alone is a disturbing signal in a democracy and for a country in search of institutional benchmarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u124	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u125	I would also like to refer to the organization of the discussion of this text, in particular of this important article, which provides for a wide range of measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u126	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u127	I am also surprised at the application of the new regulation, against which many of us have voted – it was adopted, I would remind you, only thanks to the majority – which severely limits Parliament's power to intervene. As Agnès Firmin Le Bodo explained earlier, while the amendments she had tabled concerned various emergency measures, they were considered inadmissible. You can't do one thing and its opposite! Either you are more precise in the drafting of bills, or we are taking the opportunity to go back to the wrong reform of the regulations. Mr Descrozaille, you are asking us not to deal with the details and to let the administration do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u128	When you see the results of the administration, on masks for example...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u129	I am sorry to have to tell you: we are here to make the law and to make political – and not administrative – decisions, which the administration must then apply. Our job is to make it take into account the real, the aspirations and the proposals of men and women. That's why we're here! With this text, we will deal with very important issues – the CSDs, the advice of the workers, the reform of the justice system – that deserve to be discussed and decided together. I regret, however, that the examination of this article, of which – that will not surprise you – we are going to propose the deletion of such a large number of provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u130	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u131	The meeting was resumed. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 188 and 302. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u132	I said this morning how much there was a great risk that Parliament would be weakened and divested a little more every day. I also recalled yesterday, on the occasion of the working group set up by the President of the National Assembly, that the operation derogating from the common law, to which we all agreed, as a matter of responsibility, should allow Parliament only to deal with matters immediately related to the crisis. Finally, I have stressed the great risk that this stunted functioning, this democracy "under bell", will be contrary to our texts and fundamental principles: I am thinking in particular of Article 27 of the Constitution, the right of individual amendment, or the nullity of any mandatory mandate – of which Members of the Republic on the move could speak at length, at a time when parliamentary groups are being narrowed. Let us be careful: Article 1e r is just an illustration of these drifts. Pierre Dharréville spoke of a "cafoutche" text, as they say in Marseilles, that is to say tote, and he is right. If it contains elements related to the emergency situation, which we could have agreed to, it also illustrates the will, for those who think they are right alone, to exercise solitary power. They are the same ones that determine the degree of emergency disconnected from the emergencies our fellow citizens are experiencing. What are the emergencies of our fellow citizens? Have masks – including masks made available to all students, starting next Monday, which would attest that school is free, now that it is no longer compulsory; allow and develop massive screening tests; In short, demonstrate a State that takes care and protects all and everywhere, from a Republic reaffirmed for all and everywhere. Instead, you define your own degrees of urgency, asking us to trust you. To entrust the administration of parliamentary prerogatives... it is better to hear this than to be deaf! A colleague – but he can resign! – proposes to return the keys and ask the technocrats who have been managing the country for thirty years to continue to do so! Unfortunately, the democratic divide would be accentuated. That is why we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u133	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u134	We call for the deletion of Article 1, which will only satisfy our colleague Frédéric Descrozaille, who wanted to entrust the decisions to the administration! The explanatory memorandum in our amendment once again refers to the free use of masks, because when we have an idea in mind, we are going to the end! We do not understand – and we will never understand – that, in a bill containing various urgent measures to deal with a health crisis, the request for free masks is considered inadmissible. Our fellow citizens demand it, and the state must offer masks to families who really need it. Some do not even make three meals a day: how could they buy masks, at a rate of 200 euros a month? We're walking on the head! Understand that not everyone has the means to buy masks – or then, deconfining won't be for everyone! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I would like an explanation: how can you judge that our request for free masks is inadmissible and should not be included in the emergency measures related to a health crisis? You have the right to be opposed to such a measure and to explain to us the reasons for it, but how can you rule out an amendment asking the state or social security to take care of the masks, so that all our citizens have access to health protection?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u136	Mr Jumel, you have tried to make the case for crisis management, particularly with regard to masks and screening tests. However, we are not in the Committee of Inquiry into the management of the crisis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u137	There won't be any!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u138	You're going to refuse to create it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u139	... and this is absolutely not the subject of today's discussion. I am disappointed that you and Mrs. Fiat did not see the urgency of resolving a multitude of problems caused by this crisis – that you did not see, for example, that the courts are engorged because they were unable to function normally during confinement; that the partial activity must be secured; workers in the CSD or in the interim need to be reassured about the consequences of the confinement period on their contract; that the closure of borders and the emergency context raise problems with regard to residence permits and asylum applications. Yes, this article is very broad and covers many subjects, but who can say that the crisis did not have multiple and tentacular effects on all aspects of French life? I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u140	And the answer to my question?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u142	He's also unfavorable. As I said earlier, some provisions will be included in the text, but for others it is necessary to retain the form of an authorization. That is why I am against the deletion of Article 1 as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u143	Still no answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u144	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u145	I would like to extend my colleague Caroline Fiat's questions about the free masks. The fact that they are not free, what does that mean, besides that it costs money to everyone? Well, it feeds offending, with people stealing masks to sell them to the black market. Do you think this crime would persist if you made the masks free? Do you not think that this could have a positive impact on the work of the police, the gendarmerie and the courts by reducing their burden in this period of health crisis? It would be good to see from time to time a little further than the tip of his nose – even though there would be a mask on it! The same applies to medicines: every effort should be made to avoid speculation. But you all heard it like me: Sanofi, a French company that does – O how much! – the pride of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, has already announced that if vaccines were ever produced, they would be sold to the American market as a priority. Perhaps it would be time to nationalize all this – but, strangely, it is not in your urgent dispositions. So there's no urgency in this matter? Don't you think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u146	It's mostly been denied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Rather than providing for a series of incomplete orders, even if certain provisions are included in the text, with deadlines so forced that it does not even allow us to properly draft sub-amendments, you should repackage, if not the entire bill, at least clause 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u148	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u149	First of all, I would like to say that, with regard to such a far-reaching text - which has been stressed repeatedly - and since there is indeed an urgent need, the inadmissibility of a number of amendments raises questions. This is just one example, but I had tabled an amendment to govern relations between producers and large-scale distribution. Is it not urgent to take action on this matter? I do not understand how such amendments can be declared inadmissible. On the other hand, we are looking at a text which is constantly being told that it has urgent provisions. Where is the urgency when a prescription is to be made within 30 months? If it does indeed seem legitimate that certain measures should be taken by order and that this should be done quickly, then in other cases normal democratic life should follow its course and we should be able to go through parliamentary channels. Last week, we were able to pass in a week, through the parliamentary shuttle, the bill extending the state of health emergency. In such fundamental areas as these, why could the Government not leave its prerogatives to Parliament, using an accelerated procedure and ensuring that, as was the case last week, parliamentary scrutiny lasted only one week? We really find ourselves in a situation where national representation is being flouted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u150	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u151	You're not listening to us, rapporteur! We have indicated that a number of topics may be urgent, and we have even proposed that the list be expanded. I share the view of our colleagues who consider that it is not acceptable to oppose the inadmissibility of certain amendments, on the grounds that they would relate to matters that are not covered by this text – as if you were the only ones who can determine what is urgent for the people! As far as the background is concerned, now I find it funny – at last, when I say "funny", it's a way of speaking – that those who have completely detrigued labour law now tell us that there is an urgent need to secure the CSDs! I find "funny" – no other word comes to mind – only after having emptied justice from its substance and deprived the courts of means, the same now tell us that there are risks of judicial bottling after two months of confinement! I am concerned that you are concerned about Brexit in this period of health crisis, when it has been months since, for example, in fisheries, we are alerting you because the Dutch are looting our seas and you are unable even to give a national definition to artisanal fishing to protect the know-how of our fishermen. I could continue the list and mention all the proposals we have made to deal with the crisis. You have called for national unity, but you are in the solitary exercise of power: it is another contradiction that you have to overcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a recurring debate, the Government has also been opposed to Article 45 of the Constitution and Article 98(6) of our Rules of Procedure on some of its amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u153	Interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u154	The rule therefore applies both to the Government and to parliamentarians – however, it is the Government that has set the limits, since it is the Government that has tabled the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u155	Who wasn't ready!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u156	However, within the framework of the text that had been tabled, the Government's amendments were subject to the same censorship as those submitted by parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u157	No one can take advantage of his own turpitudes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u158	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 14, 339, 476, 493, 494, 132 and 488, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 14, 339, 476 and 493, 132 and 488 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u159	Article 1 of the draft law empowers the Government to take legislative measures by order to deal with the consequences of the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic and the measures taken to limit its spread in the context of the state of health emergency. As I said in the general discussion: while Parliament is already largely ousted from the legislative process, it is quite regrettable that the Government once again wishes to take its place and legislate alone. This approach seems dangerous to me for democracy and for decision-making in the context of the health crisis we are going through. If it is entirely legitimate to want to act quickly in a state of health emergency – and, I repeat, from this point of view, this text contains good things – there is no reason to do so as soon as the state of emergency ceases. The use of prescriptions and the period of state of health emergency should therefore coincide, so that our institutions can function again normally. The wording proposed by the amendment seems particularly appropriate to me, in so far as it covers the hypothesis of a possible extension of the state of emergency after 10 July: the deadline which is set corresponds, not to a specific date, but to the end of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u160	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 339.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u161	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] How can one wish to continue to legislate by ordinances beyond the state of health emergency? How can we suggest that once it has been lifted, rules of exception would still be necessary, particularly with regard to the functioning of our democracy? How does the majority sing of a citizen democracy and which has launched, in particular, the Citizen's Climate Convention to give time for collective decision-making on certain major issues, how can this majority break with this state of mind even after the end of the state of emergency? If we are prepared to accept and support the implementation of specific authorisations in the context of a state of emergency linked to a particular situation, why should we extend beyond that situation a state of fact that is contrary both, Mr Minister, to the image you are referring to and to the will you are expressing within the Government and, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to what you wish to make emerge elsewhere, namely a citizen democracy? It is therefore necessary to limit the authorization to the period of the state of emergency. It is a matter of common sense, for a living democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u162	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 476.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u163	It is intended to replace the words "within six months of the publication of this Act" with the words "until the end of the state of emergency". Indeed, it seems to me more coherent – and sufficient – to align the duration of the authorization granted to the Government by this text with that of the state of health emergency related to the Covid-19 epidemic. In the current context, of extreme gravity and which has already seen Parliament marginalized in its essential function of legislation, it seems harmful that the Government wishes once again to legislate alone, because this is dangerous for democracy and for the proper functioning of our institutions. Indeed, beyond this state of emergency, which, we are aware, can be renewed, the exercise by the Government of exorbitant powers would no longer have sufficiently strong contextual and political motives. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] By aligning the two durations, this amendment aims to provide more flexibility and to strengthen control, thus avoiding potentially excessive use of the authorizations granted to the Government during this period of crisis. The authorization would no longer be justified beyond the state of emergency, on the understanding that the state of emergency may be extended. It is a guarantee of legal security as well as an institutional safeguard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u164	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 493.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u165	I would first like to return to the debate on the free provision of masks by the State. We must denounce what is happening all over France. Emmanuel Macron had announced that the state would distribute masks to our fellow citizens through the town halls. What happened? The town halls had to order masks themselves in total disorder, without knowing whether they should do so and, if so, from whom. Ultimately, part of the cost of masks is paid by the State, but, frankly, the method is wrong. Some regions have mobilized, but not all, and there have sometimes been delays. As a result, today only some of our fellow citizens are lucky enough to have masks for free, while in other municipalities, whose mayors believed in the word of the state, this is not the case; However, as has been said, not all French people have the means to buy masks. The mess is total.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u166	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u167	So I wanted to take this opportunity to denounce the state's imperiety in this case. For the sake of legal and, quite simply, democratic reasons, this amendment, proposed by Gilles Lurton and co-signed by several members of the group Les Républicains, aims to ensure that the state of health emergency coincides with the possibility for the Government to take by order the measures provided for in this bill containing various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic. As Pierre-Henri Dumont, in particular, said, the rights of Parliament have been trampled sufficiently to make it unnecessary to add them by authorizing the Government to legislate by ordinances after the end of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u168	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 494.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u169	We propose another solution by the majority and the Government, by setting the period of authorization at three months. This would make it possible not to go too far, and such a delay would also be in line with government practice. Indeed, one might say, if one were a little brazen, that the Government's management of the crisis is a matter of trial and trial. We want to admit that the Government is adjusting its policies along the water, but in this case it is doing so in stages. Well, let's give him three months to work! If we accept that there is an urgent need, we hope that once the state of emergency is lifted, Parliament will regain its rights and that it will be up to us to legislate. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u170	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u171	It is in the same spirit as the previous ones. The Government is telling us – what we fully understand – that, given the urgency, we cannot suffer the parliamentary debate on certain measures and that we must allow it to make the necessary arrangements by order to safeguard a number of activities in our country. All right; Of which act. The Government tells us that it knows what to do in the context of this crisis. All right; Of which act. But since there is an urgency and the Government knows what it has to do, why doesn't it do it right away? Parliament voted last week to extend the state of emergency for a period of two months: the Government will therefore be able to take emergency measures within the next two months; Beyond that, we will no longer be in an emergency. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Therefore, this amendment tends to reduce the clearance period requested from six to two months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u172	I call Mr Sebastien Huyghe to support Amendment No. 488.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u173	I would point out that Antoine Savignat and I did not agree to table these identical amendments. It is a matter of urgency: the emergency requires a rapid response, not a delay of up to 30 months, as in the case of one of the orders. We need actions that correspond to the arguments used by the Government to dispossess Parliament of its essential prerogatives. On the other hand, as we speak, the Government continues to table amendments, which once again proves that speed and haste should not be confused. Even if the urgency is real, he should consider things more punctually than he does.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u174	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u175	We discussed this subject in committee, where the amendments were either intended to align the duration of the authorisation with that of the state of emergency or to reduce it. We have no guarantee that the state of emergency, which is due to end on 10 July, will not be extended again; Therefore, the idea of setting the end of empowerment at the same date did not seem appropriate. The duration of authorization seems to us perfectly legitimate as it is. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u177	Article 1 of the Constitution empowers the Government to take certain measures by order, in accordance with article 38 of the Constitution, within six months of the publication of the law. This period was retained in a context of uncertainty as to the date of the final cessation of the state of emergency. It is prudence about the length of time during which the Government will have the opportunity to take these measures, but also about the desire to set a clear limit on the time limit for legislative authorization, which would not allow the somewhat slippery reference at the end of the state of emergency proposed by some of the amendments under joint discussion. In its opinion, the Council of State, while judging this six-month period short, considers it appropriate to the situation. This deadline does not mean that the Government will wait six months to take the measures in question, which I would remind you will be included in the law. Lastly, the Government had transformed authorizations into amendments, which would be considered later. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u178	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u179	I used the word "cafoutche" earlier. In Provence, a cafoutche is a room serving as a storage room, or a closet in which you put everything and which is in general poorly tidy. The text you present gives us the same impression. I am therefore quite in favour of these amendments: if we have to give you the key to the cafoutche, giving it back to us in two months would be the least of all. Although our group did not vote in favour of it, we have declared a state of emergency, now extended by two months, which gives you considerable powers. It seems inappropriate to us that you try to get even more than this assembly has already granted you. You suggest that the state of emergency could be extended again: it's not to reassure us. It would be wise to supervise as much as possible the powers that give you this authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u180	Give back the key to the cockroach!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u181	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u182	I raised this important point in my speech on the motion to reject it beforehand. I have nothing against taking urgent action, but once again, when certain clearance periods go up to 12 months or even 30 months, it is no longer an urgent matter. Binding hands with the Government for such long periods and on such varied subjects is not at all reasonable. The members of the Socialist and Related Group will therefore approve these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u183	Thank you! Bravo, Lambert!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u184	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u185	Mr rapporteur, you have served us an outstanding argument: limiting the duration of the authorisation to two months would not be appropriate in the event of a further extension of the state of emergency. Reread Amendment No 493, by Gilles Lurton, which I supported; It proposes to align the term of the authorization with that of the state of emergency health, so that delaying the second would all the more reverse the first, which responds to your objection. On the other hand, I would have liked to have heard the guard of the seals, which this text must make, like us, very uncomfortable. This is a matter of democratic respect for our Assembly. The Government likes to act by ordinances, which deprives Parliament of much of its ability to legislate and influence the drafting of texts, but goes further. This text is supposed to deal with the state of health emergency; the concept of urgency is included in its title. How can we imagine that it empowers the Government to make emergency-related orders when the state of emergency is over? How can we consent to such a situation? From a democratic point of view, as well as from a legal point of view, what you are proposing is not acceptable. Gilles Lurton's amendment provides you with a solution that would be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u186	Brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u187	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u188	Thanks to Pierre Dharréville and François-Michel Lambert, who explained it to me, I will have learned what a cafoutche is. For my part, I would like to speak of choutchouka, a salad served at the entrance, which has so many ingredients that it is impossible to say whether you are eating tomato, pepper or onion. This text is a tchoutchouka!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u189	[[Smile]] And I'll confirm it's noon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u190	No, this dish is too good for the metaphor to hold!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u191	[[MM. Jérôme Lambert and François-Michel Lambert applaud]] Forgive me for this digression, Mr. President. Mr rapporteur, you have excelled in committee; You have defended us as a worthy representative of Parliament. I do not understand why we divest ourselves in this way for a period that nothing justifies, which falls from heaven. Six months is a lot; Two months is a good time, especially since it is linked to the end of the state of emergency. If it were to be postponed to September, as I understood you were considering, then we would have two months to put an end to this exceptional package of orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u192	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u193	Article 1 of this text is the triple penalty: an authorization to legislate by ordinance, for an exorbitant, if not indefinite, duration at least unexplained, and retroactively. It provides that the provisions made by order may apply from 12 March 2020. There, we come out of the realm of the possible. Believe in my experience: don't assume that the bigger it is, the better! We just can't do such a thing. There are fundamental principles. Article 2 of the Civil Code excludes retroactivity, even if there are exceptions. In criminal matters, the principle of non-retroactivity has constitutional value, as it is set out in article 8 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u194	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u195	At the very beginning of this crisis, I asked Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, whom I thank for being present, about the possibility of retroactive provisions, including in the area of collective proceedings and judicial redress. She had rightly told me that, in this time of crisis, legislative and institutional stability must first and foremost be maintained, so that the law could be understood by all. I hear it, I understand it, I accept it. I therefore ask that the reference to 12 March 2020 and the possibility of retroactive legislation be deleted from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u197	Unfavorable opinion. It is indeed necessary to provide for a possibility of retroactivity on 12 March, that is, on the date of the speech of the President of the Republic announcing the closure of schools, as provided for by the law of 23 March 2020. I am thinking, for example, of the supplementary social security measure. In addition, the Council of State has admitted this retroactivity, while stressing that it is a faculty whose exercise is subject to a condition of necessity, and that it will ensure that this condition is complied with when preparing the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u199	As the Council of State points out in its opinion, retroactivity of the law is permitted for compelling reasons of general interest; You yourself have alluded to it, Mr. Savignat. This is the case with regard to research contracts, the asylum-seeker's allowance, the pension contributions of employees, among other matters covered by this text, which we will discuss a little later. In fact, criminal non-retroactivity is indeed of constitutional rank, but that of the law in general, as set out in article 2 of the Civil Code, is only of legislative rank. I suggest that you go back to that when we consider paragraphs 8 and 9 of this article. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u200	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u201	Both the rapporteur and the minister have mentioned measures for which retroactivity is necessary. That is what I cannot understand: why leave it at the top of Article 1e r and therefore give it a vocation to apply to all the provisions of it, when you know that it is only relevant to some? Would you not want to tell us everything?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u202	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u203	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 431, 17, 97, 110, 215 and 290, to delete paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 431.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u204	A) of 1° of the I of this article contains a broad authorization which proposes the postponement of the entry into force of legislation or of the term of experiments in order to deal with the consequences of the epidemic. The provisions that fall within the scope of this authorization will be amended to include them directly in the bill, as we committed ourselves to it before the commission. We have already begun to do so. The power to legislate by order can therefore be removed, as well as the restriction of its scope introduced in committee, which becomes irrelevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u205	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u206	It is identical to that of the Government, but does not have the same justification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u207	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u208	Paragraphs 3 and 4 are intended to postpone the entry into force or application of texts, or the term of experiments, by one year. The multiple orders issued under the state of health emergency have been authorised under the state of health emergency; It would not be appropriate to extend the clearance periods if the state of emergency is lifted. This amendment is thus the logical consequence of the one I supported earlier, point 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u209	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u210	These subparagraphs empower the Government to postpone the entry into force of legislative reforms or the conclusion of experiments conducted on the basis of article 37 (1) of the Constitution, when the date set for them was 1 January 2021 at the latest. This authorization concerns more specifically various provisions resulting from the reform of the justice system, which, if I understand correctly, you want to transform into subsequent amendments. We oppose the postponement of the establishment of the national court for the dematerialised treatment of orders for payment because we simply refuse to create them, in the light of the new political, economic and social context that we are facing. Indeed, the complete dematerialization of small disputes, by putting an end to physical appearance, will penalise people with limited financial means. Yesterday I presented a report to the Committee on Social Affairs which covered all the issues raised by the problem of poverty. It shows that digital exclusion has been exacerbated by the crisis. It should also be noted that this court was established following repeated requests from credit institutions, banks or insurance companies which are responsible for almost 80% of the payment injunction proceedings. It is well known that such an operation will favour the institutional creditors who will have the means to dominate the system. We are therefore opposed to the retention of those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u211	Amendment No 110 by Mr Paul Christophe is being defended. I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u212	I share the arguments put forward earlier by my colleagues to justify our wish to delete sub-paragraphs 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u213	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u214	My colleagues have explained to you why we would like paragraphs 3 and 4 to be deleted. For my part, I invite you to read the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, in which Simone de Beauvoir said: "Never forget that it will be enough for a political, economic or religious crisis to call into question the rights of women. These rights are never acquired. You'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. » We took advantage of this amendment, which was considered admissible, to slip the text of another of our amendments into the explanatory memorandum, unfortunately declared inadmissible. I would like an answer, just as I would have liked you to answer the question of free masks. You have the right not to agree with our proposals, you have the right not to vote on our amendments, but you could still take the trouble of examining them, especially when they are signed, as it was, by several Members from various benches. In this case, the amendment was proposed, the first time, by Albane Gaillot – let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar – but many of us supported it. A forum has even been published in the press on this subject. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] I repeat: you have the right not to vote on this amendment, but at least we are told how it is inadmissible in the context of the consideration of a bill containing various urgent provisions related to the health crisis. There's an emergency! Minister, can you, by virtue of your right to table amendments under consideration of a text, take it back, which is supported by many Members, on several benches? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Valérie Petit and Mr Bruno Fuchs also applaud]] We would understand that it is not adopted, but at least explain why, in 2020, we would not be able to discuss it in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u216	I support the deletion of sub-paragraphs 3 and 4,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u217	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u218	...not for the reasons put forward by the deputies, but for those of the Government. All provisions within the scope of the authorization in question will be amended to include them directly in the text of the bill. In this way, we will find the provisions on overseas or birthplaces after Article 1, which will allow us to discuss the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u219	We can go to bed early!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u220	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 216 and 293, to delete paragraph 5. Amendment No 216 by Mr Jérôme Lambert is being defended. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u221	As with the amendment which Mrs Caroline Fiat supported a few moments ago, we are taking advantage of this amendment, which tends to delete a paragraph, to present you with another legitimate proposal. Earlier, it was a matter of increasing the legal period for abortion from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy, in the context of confinement – a proposal that you, Minister, can take up in the form of an amendment. This time, it is a measure for people who are particularly vulnerable to the virus: those with chronic pathologies, diabetes or immune deficiency, whether they are HIV-positive or have cancer. It's mostly these people that the Covid-19 epidemic kills. To deal with this tragedy, we propose that the nation take full responsibility for the funeral expenses of these victims. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] As before, this is an emergency measure and you have the right to amend the bill under consideration to take up that provision, human and common sense. It would help to support families who were devastated by grief and who did not always have the means to bear this additional burden financially in this very troubled period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u223	Your amendment tends to remove the authorization that changes the duration of the appointment of the mandate holder. I am not sure that there is any connection between your speech and the text of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u224	You've been told why!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u225	In any event, I am against it because it seems necessary to respond to the impossibility of holding elections in the context of the health crisis, but also to take into account the difficulties associated with the preparation of the election and the organisation in good conditions of the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u227	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u228	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u229	Don't worry, rapporteur. The explanatory memorandum has nothing to do with the text of the amendment, as it is only a trick to present to you amendments that are considered inadmissible. Could the minister explain to us, at some point on this day, why these amendments, which tended to extend the legal deadline for abortion and propose a free distribution of masks, were considered inadmissible in the context of the consideration of a bill containing various urgent provisions related to the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u230	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u231	I do not think this paragraph is too bad. To be honest, it even seems interesting to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u232	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u233	You see, we do not systematically oppose all your proposals. Indeed, because of confinement, some institutions could not be renewed and it was pleased that the rules had been relaxed to ensure some continuity. However, the six-month deadline for holding elections and renewing mandates seems too long to me, so my amendment tends to reduce it to three months. The life of the country must resume normally, which requires functioning institutions and decision-making bodies. However, those who are acting, those whose mandates are coming to an end, lack legitimacy to establish their decision-making power. The problem is the same for the mayors elected in the first round. A period of three months would be more reasonable to enable the activity and economy to be revived in good conditions, especially since the general assemblies are convened between fifteen days and one month before they are held. We could move forward faster and avoid abuses because, of course, some have been able to take advantage of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u235	I am very pleased, honourable Member, that you are in favour of paragraph 5. Unfortunately, I would be against your amendment, which tends to reduce the period for the postponement of the appointment of the mandate holder from six to three months. The authorizations provided for in the emergency law to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic of 23 March 2020 have, as a first step, made it possible to remedy the difficulties raised by the renewal of elective mandates in many areas, such as that of consular advisers. However, several ordinances have only planned to extend the mandates until the end of June 2020, when the health crisis persists and other sectors are also likely to face obstacles in the renewal of their elected mandates, such as that of architects – the elections within their order were planned in the autumn – or that of employee representatives on boards of directors. It is therefore preferable to allow the carry-over of up to six months in order to cover the situations identified so far, but also those that might arise in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u237	I know you're honest, Mr. Savignant, and I'm glad you approve of this paragraph. I know you're also pragmatic. Beyond the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, a period of three months from the enactment of the law, early June, would lead us to the end of August, early September. You understand, like me, the difficulty of renewing the proceedings in good conditions, in the middle of the summer, even if it remains disturbed. That is why we have adopted a period of six months. I am therefore against this amendment, which I invite you to withdraw, because I believe that we share the same objective and that you will have understood that a period of three months would make the situation even more complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u238	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u239	For once, we share the pragmatism of the Government because it seems to us difficult to hold elections in August, even though we must all be concerned that the emergency regime does not become the rule and the ordinary democracy, the exception. In this regard, we ignore the temptations that might be those, not of the Government, but of the President of the Republic. However, I would like to ask you a simple question: have you taken care to consult with the trade unions and employers' organizations on the extension of the mandate of the workers' advisers and consular judges? If they gave an opinion, we'd like to know him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u240	Yes, yes, we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u241	If you hadn't, you would have known!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u242	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u243	I understand very well your concern, Minister, to leave reasonable time to organize the elections. That a period of one month is too short, I hear it; But if the second round of municipal elections takes place in June, we will have that deadline. That summer is not a good time to conduct an election campaign, I can easily see it; But if the elections are held at the beginning of the year, the situation will be the same. In this case, I am referring to professional organizations, governing bodies of companies or associations for which there is no objection to their being granted a short period of time. They know how to organize, you know. They didn't wait for us to do it. Even earlier, a sports federation asked me if I was available to participate in its general assembly on June 27. These bodies have made their arrangements with the appropriate technical means. There is no objection to the organisation of such elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u244	Amendment No 283 by Mr Guillaume Kasbarian is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u245	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u246	This amendment is not satisfactory in itself; It was an appeal amendment that I felt was necessary to alert the Government to the situation of the EPCI – public institutions for inter-communal cooperation – which I have already said a word about in the general discussion. I have noted that paragraph 5 does not cover mandates resulting from political elections. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the second round of municipal elections, scheduled to take place on 22 March, could not be organised and that, therefore, if more than 30,000 communes elected their mayor in the first round – they will be able to set up their municipal council between 23 and 28 May – nearly 5,000 communes are still deprived of it. I am not so worried about these 5000 communes, whose fate will be decided on the basis of the report of 23 May, as about the EPCI, whose executive cannot be renewed until the results of the second round are known, which poses a real problem of legitimacy. Minister, contrary to what you said earlier – I note that you had the courtesy to answer me, which is not the case for all ministers – this is not an exclusive concern in my constituency. In fact, 86% of the municipalities have completely renewed their municipal councils after the first round, but the situation is completely different at the level of intercommunalities, which are very much affected by the second round: only 153 EPCIs have all their member communes elected a full municipal council, i.e. only 12% of the EPCIs and 5% of the population. The situation of the EPCIs which continue to operate with their former executive, which no longer has legitimacy, is increasingly problematic, particularly for the exercise of economic development competence, which is essential in times of health and economic crisis, and will be so for the most part if the date of the second round is to be postponed after the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u248	As you said yourself, Ms. Ménard, this is an appeal amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u250	This question does not arise only in Béziers, Madame Ménard. She's also in my Loir-et-Cher department. I know what you're talking about. However, this is not the purpose of the text in which we took care to clarify, as you pointed out, that the measure did not concern political elections, in this case municipal and community elections. The reason for this is that the Assembly and the Senate have set a simple and clear deadline in the Joint Committee on 23 May: the Government will therefore submit a report to Parliament in a few days, on which it will base its decision to maintain the second round in June or to postpone it to a date to be fixed. In this second case, two texts will have to be examined, since these elections will have consequences for the holding of senatorial elections. We shall be debating this at that time, but this is not the subject of the text we are discussing today. I know the situation in which the postponement of the second round of municipal elections places communities of communes, but it seems to me that more than 130 community councils will be able to settle after the election of the municipal executive that will allow the upcoming meeting of the already elected municipal councils, which is a first good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u251	The exact number is 153!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u252	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u253	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u254	It is intended to delete paragraph 6, which seeks to adjust the duration of the terms of office of workers' advisers and that of the members of the regional inter-branch joint committees. We believe that the health crisis does not justify defeating everything. Once the situation has improved, some appointments will be sufficient to ensure the renewal of these organizations. It is therefore not necessary to make any derogations in order to adjust the duration of the terms of office. We propose to return to the common law concerning the duration of the terms of office of workers' advisers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u256	Paragraph 6 had not given rise to debate in the Committee. The various postponement deadlines provided for in Ordinance No 2020-388 could have the consequence of decorating the timetable for the appointment of workers' advisers and members of the regional inter-branch joint committees from that of the measurement vote of the trade union hearing, which takes place every four years. Without modification of the law, the next appointment of labour counsellors could not take place within one year of the union hearing. The provision that you propose to delete is intended to avoid this lag. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u258	This technical provision aimed at avoiding the decoupling of calendars complements the provisions of the Law of 23 March 2020. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u259	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 217 and 303. I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u260	It seeks to delete paragraph 7, which is intended to amend the reference date for assessing the number of workers for the forthcoming applications for the representativeness of the self-employed. The arms fall to me: why change the reference date? We oppose this provision, which makes no sense to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u261	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u262	We take advantage of the discussion on paragraph 7, which concerns workers, to warn about the consequences of the massive use of telework during confinement. While its beneficial effects on the environment and road traffic can be welcomed, there are several concerns about this way of working. Not only does it harm collectives and increases the isolation of workers, but it creates stark and profound inequalities: it is mostly the executives who took advantage of it during confinement, while the performers – the workers – went to coal, if I may say so, and were exposed to the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to ensure that telework, which is inherently unequal, is not generalized without safeguards, otherwise it would lead to the destruction of collective labour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u263	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u264	The sole purpose of the authorization you propose to remove is to secure the campaign to measure the representativeness of the self-employed, about which no professional organization has reported any particular problem. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u265	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 432, 2, 218 and 304. We have the honour to speak in support of Amendment No. 432, by the Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u266	It tends to delete article 1, paragraph 8, which empowers the Government to take special measures to try crimes. We will now propose amendments to include these provisions in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u267	Identical Amendments Nos 2 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 218 by Mr Jérôme Lambert are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u268	Yes, to the extent that the Government's amendment will be adopted...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u269	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u270	The Government wished to delete paragraph 8 to include its provisions in the text. This paragraph provided for two things: first, the increase in the number of jurors drawn by lot so that the sitting courts function properly. On this point, we agree; Our group is even in favour of extending this mode of operation in justice. But, at the same time – the famous "at the same time" – it extends the number of departments that can be the subject of the experiment relating to the departmental criminal court, which allows precisely not to pass before the court of assizes. The situation is ubiquitous: more jurors are summoned, but without using them, since at the same time the number of departmental criminal courts is increased! It has been said a thousand times that the questioning of departmental criminal courts is a sign of distrust towards professional magistrates and that, since the beginning of the experiment, these courses have functioned to perfection. In fact, we do not know, because the monitoring committee that was planned to be set up has never been set up. There is therefore no shared assessment between legal professionals, parliamentarians and other potential actors. I am all the more opposed to the generalization of these experiments because, in his opinion in response to the referral of parliamentarians to the National Assembly and the Senate, the Constitutional Council validated the experiment because it was limited to a few departments and limited in time. It's not to open the valves when the time comes! I register in advance falsely against the Government's arguments and the amendment it will make.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u271	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u272	I am in favour of these deletion amendments, but for other reasons. The Government will propose to include certain provisions in the text after article 1. We can discuss the substance at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u273	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u274	We would be in favour of deleting paragraph 8 if we understood what the Government intended to replace it. Paragraph 8 proposed to increase the number of jurors because of the health crisis, which could be understood, but the extension of the experiment was problematic. When we do not have the conclusions of an experiment, we do not propose to extend it to thirty departments, i.e. almost one third of the country! That's a lot. We have a serious problem with this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u275	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u276	We will come back to the substance in a moment, but I would like to say a few words about paragraph 8, which we see as a blocking point. It is not to you that I am learning, Madam Keeper of the Seals: the Assize Court is a unique jurisdiction of the judicial institution, which justifies derogation from the usual way of doing justice for the most serious crimes. We must only agree to derogate from the traditional functioning of criminal courts in a very measured manner, as is the case with the text we adopted a few months ago. An experiment has therefore been under way since last autumn, just a few months, whose meaning and scope have been bordered by the Constitutional Council. I really doubt the validity of the argument of an extended experiment: if we extend it to 30 sitting courts, as the committee did by adopting the amendment by Mr Agnès Firmin. Bodo is no longer experimentation, but generalization. We're getting out of the frame. The only question that is relevant at this stage is, therefore, the question of the means for the functioning of justice. The argument put forward in the impact study of the text was that criminal courts would allow the stock of stagnant files to be removed and would speed up justice. Good time! More popular jurors should be mobilized, all right. The first three points of the article agree with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u277	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u278	The real question is how justice can hold its place. We will return to this debate, but since the Government proposes to include the provision in the law, it will have to make strong arguments if it is to change our position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u279	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u280	This crisis has been the accelerator of a unfortunately increasingly widespread doctrine that could be summed up as follows: "Tell me what you need, I'll explain how to do without it. This doctrine has been very evolutionary in terms of masks or tests. The reform of the justice system has, in a way, set a precedent in this area: "Let us see together the shortage of the means of justice and the bottling that the courts face, and we will explain how to accommodate you". It has dealt a blow to principles such as the orality of the proceedings or taking the necessary time to judge, including listening to witnesses and experts. It is not I who say it, but the trade unions of the judiciary and criminal lawyers who are very aware of these issues: they fear that this reform will lead to a deterioration of the prerogatives of justice. That is why the extension of the experiment before any return to the current trial is, in our view, a matter of concern, indeed shared on the various benches of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u281	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 433, 4, 40, 219, 263 and 487. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for Amendment No 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u282	We also wish to delete paragraph 9 as, as in paragraph 8, we are about to include specific provisions in the text to enable the public prosecutor to reorient proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u283	Amendment No 4 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u284	If we, too, want to delete this paragraph, it is not for the same reasons as Mrs Custody of Seals, that is to say to benefit from the elastic effect and to see this provision come back after Article 1. If we want this deletion, it is that this provision, as I have already pointed out, will allow for a retroactive decision in criminal matters, since the prosecutor's prosecution decision may be amended to seek alternative means of settlement. But we already know which: instead of summoning to the police court or the correctional court, it will be the criminal order, to the detriment of the right of defence and that of the victims. This device – I will come back to it later – is therefore not acceptable. I have taken note of the Government's amendments: unfortunately, it does not wish for its definitive abolition, and we would have been happy to vote. Many of us have already stressed this: all this proves that we are witnessing a total improvisation today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u285	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u286	Paragraph 9, as the previous speaker had said, gave the public prosecutor very special powers in a situation of health crisis. However, health crisis or not, these powers call into question many principles to which we are committed and which have just been recalled. That is why, if we propose the deletion of this paragraph, it is certainly not for the same reasons as the Government, on the proposal which we will discuss after Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u287	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 263.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u288	The Public Prosecutor appreciates the advisability of the prosecution and enjoys wide autonomy in the choice of procedural guidance. This paragraph, in so far as it allows the reorientation of cases for the sole purpose of meeting the management constraints caused by the suspension of courts, does not take into account the interests of litigants, in particular victims. Because it undermines the effectiveness of repression and affects the image of our justice, it should be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u289	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor to support Amendment No. 487.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u290	While some of our colleagues believe that the crisis must be an opportunity for us to review everything, particularly in the relations between the legislature and the executive, I believe that, on the contrary, in times of crisis, the public freedoms and therefore the powers of the prosecutor must not be altered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u292	Opinion in favour of the deletion of paragraph 9, but for the reasons put forward by the Government – the inclusion of the provision in the text after article 1 – not for those put forward by our colleagues who want the deletion of the provision itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u293	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u294	I would like further clarification from the Minister on what the term "reorientation of procedures" refers to. Why not recognize, in view of the consequences of the health crisis in judicial matters, that immediate appearance should not be the alpha and omega of the way criminal justice operates and that it is possible to dispense with it by using other modes of procedure? I am thinking of solutions other than prosecution, more interesting than those proposed today, to the classification without follow-up or to the immediate passage in correctional. However, we do not know the opinion of the seal keeper on the matter. What I know is that the immediate appearance procedure is the main supplier of arrest centres, even though, as everyone knows, they are already overcrowded. Consideration should therefore be given to the matter. Nor should it be suggested to prosecutors that they should no longer do anything, particularly with regard to investigations, because we are not providing justice in that country with the means necessary for its effectiveness. Such an approach would be all the more problematic since there will obviously be no national rules on reorientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u295	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u296	The provisions which allow continuity in the performance of military missions and guarantee the implementation of military conversion schemes are not directly related to the current epidemic, and therefore do not need to be, and the subparagraphs of the text which provide for them should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u298	I do not agree with you: this link exists. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u300	On the contrary, these measures are entirely linked to the Covid-19: that is why we are taking them. The suspension of military recruitment during the health crisis has created a quantitative and qualitative deficit in human resources, which will, in the short term, and obviously in the medium and long terms, affect the capabilities of the armed forces and the national gendarmerie to cope with the overload of training activities, to alleviate these activities and to fill the shortage of recruits in the most competitive areas – these are direct consequences of the fight against the spread of the virus. I would like to recall that four measures are planned: to extend the service of military personnel covered by the age limit for a maximum of one year; during the same period, a maximum of one year's extension of the services of the volunteer deputy gendarmes; during the same period, authorization for certain career or contractual members to continue serving in uniform; Finally, during the same period, the possibility of admitting former career members who have recently left the service to return. Since these provisions are useful, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment, failing which I will express an unfavorable opinion on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u301	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u302	Minister, thank you for your explanation. Reading the text alone did not allow us to realize the usefulness of these provisions. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u303	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u304	It is intended to delete paragraph 11, which has just been mentioned by the minister, because I do not understand why a health crisis, albeit a real one, should lead us to derogate from age limit rules. What does that have to do with it? We feel that these provisions are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u306	Mr Lambert, I will try to convince you. Paragraph 11 aims to preserve the capacity of the armed forces and the gendarmerie to act in the face of the short- and medium-term consequences of the health crisis on military personnel and on the maintenance of the skills of military personnel. The suspension of recruitment during the crisis has created and continues to create a military understaff while, at the same time, the departures of military personnel due to the age limit, their length of service or their conversion have continued. This deficit will have a lasting impact on the availability of military and gendarmerie personnel, since, after the end of the state of emergency, the armies will be confronted with a phenomenon of over-recruitment which will obstruct the training tools of the armies, which are already under stress. It is therefore a matter of temporarily compensating the deficit of the entrants with the retention or re-engagement of experienced personnel. Consequently, this opinion is not in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u307	Amendment No 141 by Mrs Claire Pitollat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u308	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 221.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u309	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u310	Amendment No 143 by Mrs Claire Pitollat is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u311	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u313	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u314	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u315	With regard to the extended arrangements for military personnel, which have just been adopted, I would like first of all to pay tribute to those participating in Operation Resilience. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] These provisions are necessary in order to avoid recruitment or training problems: we cannot afford a shortage of human resources in the armed forces. I am pleased that my colleagues have withdrawn their amendments to delete these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u316	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u317	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u318	I call Mrs Sarles to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u319	Presented by my colleague Claire Pitollat, it goes in the same direction as the previous ones. Indeed, it aims to clarify the reference to Article 4 of Law No 2020-290 of 23 March 2020, rather than simply mentioning the terms "state of health emergency".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u321	Although there is only one regime in France under which a state of emergency can be declared – that provided for by the law of 23 March 2020 – the amendment secures the legal basis for its extension until 20 July 2020, stating that it is based on Article 4 of the above-mentioned law. Thank you for that clarification. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u323	I welcome this amendment, which makes it useful to clarify the framework for the implementation of a number of measures which, as has been mentioned several times in committee and in the sitting this morning, may sometimes give rise to suspicion. The amendment makes it possible to clarify things. Similar precision amendments will be defended in other parts of the text, and I thank the authors for that. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u324	The only signatory of Amendment No 526, Mr Jean Lassalle, is not present, but at this particular time any member of his group can defend him for himself. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u325	I would like to thank you, Mr President, for reminding us that, at this exceptional time, the sole signatory of an amendment which could not be present in the Chamber can ask another colleague, particularly from the Freedom and Territory Group, to defend it for him. It is in this context that I therefore defend the amendment by our colleague Jean Lassalle, whose interest and contribution I would like to stress. [[Smile on various benches]] [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Everyone here knows Mr Lassalle's reputation as serious, particularly in relation to people. Through this amendment, he wishes to ensure that any person who returns to civilian life after the fulfilment of his mission in a military unit or in the forces of law and order will be detected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u327	Since Mr Lambert has developed his argument, I will try to answer it. First, recourse to the reservation, whether it be the civic reserve or that of the national police, can only be made with the consent of the volunteers. The first part of Mr Lassalle's amendment is therefore unnecessary. The second, which requires epidemiological testing, falls under the regulatory authority. For these reasons, I shall unfortunately express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u328	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u329	With this deletion amendment, I would like to point out that during the confinement period workers were put at great risk. Not only did the Government allow employers to derogate from the Labour Code with regard to leave, it did not hesitate to allow, like a sword of Damocles, the possibility of also derogating from the weekly and daily working hours. In addition, the minister has never deigned to present the list of activities essential to the life of the nation: for some employees to be protected, it was necessary to wait for the court to take interim measures! In short, by leaving them unprotected and restricting the activity of the labour inspectorate, you have led many employees to put themselves at risk. Today, by allowing employers to derogate from the maximum number of renewals of CDDs and precarious contracts, you are precarising employees even more. Why consider this measure, if not to make a new gift to the employer? [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] As has been expressed since the beginning of the morning, the Government feels that the crisis is being used as a laboratory of experience in the strategy of the shock. Paragraph 14, which also provides for the adaptation of the rules of partial activity according to enterprises or employees, has as its sole objective only to put pressure on certain categories of employees to return to work, even though we know that in some regions the risk of being contaminated is still very high.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u331	[[Protests on several benches of the FI group]] I am frankly in disagreement with the amendment and the arguments that you have just put forward. On the one hand, all the changes made to the labour code since the beginning of the epidemic have been to protect employees...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u332	Really? Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u333	... and to support companies in the face of the collapse of activity. Overall, the social partners – both trade unions and employers' organisations – welcomed the responsiveness of the services of the Ministry of Labour. On this point, I refer you to the conclusions of the work of our colleagues Stéphane Viry and Fadila Khattabi on the consequences of the Covid-19 on work and employment, which were presented last week in the Committee on Social Affairs. I therefore disagree with your first point. [["Well yes! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] The authorization you are challenging concerns the rules for the use of CSDs and acting contracts. In concrete terms, if your amendment were to be adopted, no CSD that came to an end at the time of the decoupling could be extended beyond the durations provided for in the supplementary provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u334	Unless we turn them into CDI, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u335	So you would put people whose CSD is coming to an end in a serious difficulty. We are not going to start over the debate we had at the beginning of the legislature on labour matters. Our choice is clear: we have confidence in the social dialogue, on the ground, as closely as possible to the realities of the company, especially since the newly given competence to the company agreement will be framed and limited in time. Finally, your amendment would also prohibit any extension of employment contracts, assisted contracts and so-called "spillstones" for disabled workers. So he would only put sticks in their wheels. Is that really your intention? Anyway, it's not ours. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u336	That's a real speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u337	The Minister for Labour has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u338	Mr President, you are proposing to delete paragraphs 14 to 17, which concern adaptations to labour law. Now, what have we done for the last two months, I'm asking you? Our aim is to protect both employees and jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u339	To fire the labour inspectors, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u340	First of all, with regard to the protection of employees, more than 60 job advice sheets have been published, in order to assist companies in the safe pursuit or resumption of activity for their employees. All have been developed with the various professions and the social partners. Furthermore, paragraphs 14 to 17, which you propose to delete, are necessary to adapt the rules on partial activity, CSDs, TTCs – temporary employment contracts – or assisted contracts under integration schemes. Very concretely, they therefore aim, thanks to the social dialogue...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u341	You cut it off, social dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u342	... and subject to a majority agreement in the enterprise, to allow employees to keep their jobs even if their contract ends and thus to preserve them from unemployment. This provision will obviously be limited in time. The objective of paragraph 15 is to modulate the scheme of partial activity in order to control the corresponding public expenditure and to accompany the resumption of activity of employees. However, account must be taken of the specificities of certain sectors. I attended this morning with the Prime Minister on the interministerial committee on tourism: hotels, restaurants and bars being closed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u343	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The bastards are open!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u344	Let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u345	... it is natural that their situation should be taken into account in determining the amount and duration of partial unemployment. There is indeed a need to protect more strongly the activities which are still at a standstill because of an administrative closure. It is because the measures proposed in these paragraphs are protective of employees that I am against your deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u346	It's 1984!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u347	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u348	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, since you have questioned us, I will be happy to answer you. What have you done in the last two months? A labour inspector, Anthony Smith, was laid off for trying to protect home helpers. You are making a sign of denial, Madam Minister: this man was laid off for wanting to protect the aides at home, asking the officials to provide them with masks. What did you do to protect this labour inspector who was just trying to protect employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u349	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u350	For two months, we asked you to specify what the essential professions were and which employees had to go to work. What did you do? We had to wait until the courts decided to close an Amazon center!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u351	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u352	You're saying that because of us, there won't be 50 CDDs afterwards: well, so much the better! Let's create CDI! Let's hire people! Let's stop having them sign several CDDs afterwards, stop the precarious contracts, stop letting people live in doubt, without knowing if they'll get a job the next day. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u353	Let's do some demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u354	Here we do law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u355	You have the right to disagree with us, but don't say that because of us, we're going to ban people from working. We are making proposals that people no longer be afraid of the next day, that they no longer live in precarious conditions and that they finally be able to say that they have an indeterminate job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u356	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u357	[[Smile]] The Liberals must regain their composure! We can discuss these issues quietly. First of all, between us, we can take note of the fact that you have worked hard to unblock the labour code, in particular weakening the role of trade union organisations and their ability to defend employees. You've already done enough harm not to do more! Secondly, we do believe that precariousness must remain the exception and stability...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u358	We're going to kill Amazon and they're going somewhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u359	[[Smile]] If you want the floor, dear colleague, raise your hand! And if you are authorized to do so by the chairman of your group, you will easily get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u360	Mr. Jumel, no provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u361	I repeat: we obviously believe that precariousness must remain the exception and stability, the rule. In addition, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the Department's departments in the development of the Business Advisory Sheets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u362	Thank you, Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u363	Is there only the compliments that please you? In short, some of these cards have been the subject of fruitful collaboration, and all of them are useful in helping employees to assert their rights and employers to protect employees. Having said that, I want to take advantage of your presence, Minister, to alert you and question you on a topical issue. This morning, national media reported that 28% of the employees for whom the company benefited from the partial unemployment measures actually continued to work. Do you have any evidence to confirm or invalidate this information? If it were proven, what measures would you take to protect employees and punish employers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u364	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-14-O1209.u365	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Following the discussion of the draft law on various provisions related to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
